ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on Russia's state liability for MH17. I would like to welcome everyone in the public gallery and those who follow this debate in a different way, particularly the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Justice and Security. I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr President. With the decision of the Netherlands and Australia to hold Russia legally liable, both countries take an equally correct and far-reaching decision, which is entirely logical from the interim findings of the Joint Investigation Team, the JIT. Last Thursday, the JIT published a very well-founded interim report which concluded that the rocket that shot MH17 and thereby killed 298 innocent people came from a Buk launcher plant owned or owned by the Russian 53rd brigade in Kursk, i.e. owned by the Russian army and thus by the Russian state. That's how the weapon is known. There's prints on that gun, too, but that doesn't mean there's a perpetrator, not yet. Let me be clear about that. Four years after the catastrophe, the net closes around the potential offender. I have three questions for the government. Can the Minister for Justice and Security outline why and how the decision was taken to invoke state liability? Why did only Australia join in? Can the Foreign Minister indicate what scope Russia has to avoid a real trial if it is held liable for its part in the tragedy? What form of cooperation in the JIT investigation, which was currently insufficient or not present in recent times, is still required? Can the government give a list of repeated requests for cooperation in the investigation, to which all countries and also Russia are obliged in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 2166, not so far or in part, and why the Russian complaint that Russia has not been requested to cooperate is unfounded in the eyes of the government? The time has come for Russia to make a choice, the choice to cooperate in this investigation or to continue to ignore denials, alternative theories, outright fabrications or simply incomplete answers to the many legal aid requests that have been made. Now that the Buk rocket and the launch platform Buk-TELAR are linked by the JIT to the Russian army, it is time for Russia to answer questions. We and, unfortunately, the next of kin have all been able to see how the Russian Federation has been trying for years to avoid any kind of responsibility by throwing up fog in our own country, but also in our own country. The search for truth is deliberately clouded with the weapon of lies and by spreading fake news, expertly spread by trolls and their useful idiots. That makes the process of truth finding difficult, but extra important. Our will to bring the truth to light has become a test, namely whether the fight against fake news can be won by truth, whether justice or injustice can drive away the fog of conspiracy theories and whether international standards or lawlessness are to prevail. That trajectory requires a lot of patience. The process of truth finding must go smoothly. The researchers and governments of the countries affected cannot afford any mistake. It also requires us as a parliament to support the Dutch government, today, in this step. As it travels around the world to obtain this support, we too, as representatives of the Dutch people, need to be clear about this. For a long time, the proverbial bottom stone that has to be above, the mandate that the Prime Minister set himself, has been used to drive a wedge between parties, even here in this Chamber. That hatchet, colleagues, we must bury so that that stone can be dug up. That is our task, for the Netherlands and for all the next of kin who now deserve clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr Ten Broeke. Then I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Four years after the tragedy of MH17, we can finally speak of a breakthrough. We knew the Buk plant came from Russian territory. We knew the Buk missile had been fired from a meadow under the control of pro-Russian separatists. We also knew that the Buk plant then drove back to Russian territory. But on Thursday there was a breakthrough because the JIT demonstrated beyond doubt that the Buk missile actually came from the Russian army, from the 53rd brigade in Kursk, of the Russian state. The second hard fact is this: Russia is not cooperating sufficiently. It has withheld crucial information, despite Russia's willingly and knowingly supporting Resolution 2166. Mr. Chairman. Suspects and motive are not yet known, but the accusing finger is now pointing towards Russia. The cabinet rightly decides to hold Russia responsible for its part in this disaster together with Australia. This step, endorsed in the Security Council, is a strong signal. We will not give up until the guilty are punished. It is also a step with great significance for the next of kin who lost their loved ones on July 17, 2014. This is also important in the broader battle we now have to fight, because from the very beginning Russia has done everything it can to frustrate us and has shown itself to be unreliable. The Kremlin scatters conspiracy theories. It was a CIA attack. It was a Ukrainian fighter jet. It was a failed attempt on Putin's presidential plane. It might have been a Buk missile, but it was a Ukrainian. The Kremlin does everything in its power to discredit the OVV and the JIT to parallel presentations. The Kremlin lets Russian trolls influence online discussions with lies. In this way, our efforts have also become a fight against lawlessness, against non-facts and against the erosion of international standards. It is time for Russia to come up with answers instead of lies. Mr. Chairman. Some call it naive to think that Russia will cooperate. I'd like to turn that around. I think it's naive of Putin to think that he can ultimately come out under the responsibility. I think it's naive of Putin to think he can break us up. The EU and NATO, our main allies, are united behind the Netherlands. It is naive of Putin to think that his fog can turn us against each other, as some relatives wrote in the Russian newspaper Novaya Gazeta: "Some of us had doubts and it was only later that we understood that this was exactly the intention." Genuine investigation reveals step by step the mist of the Kremlin. Putin's strategy of chaos, in which the truth eventually no longer exists, will be dismantled. I know that this does not prevent Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Minister, from claiming that the timing has been chosen to ruin the atmosphere around the World Cup. But that's panic football from a country that realizes that the net is closing slowly and that it's on its own. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions. The diplomatic note is now in Russia. This will give them a last serious chance to take their responsibility. How much time does the Cabinet give them for this? What happens if Russia does not give at home in these consultations and accepts liability? Can the Minister reflect on this? The state's liability was held by the Netherlands and Australia and Ukraine has now joined. Why have Belgium and Malaysia not yet done so? I have one more question about the different procedures. I refer to the criminal investigation of the JIT, the civil proceedings of the next of kin and the state liability of Russia. Where are these procedures mutually reinforcing and where is the risk of weakening each other? How does the cabinet deal with the latter in particular? Finally. We still have a long way to go. I'm afraid we'll have to ask for more patience from the next of kin. But this week, the ultimate goal was one step closer: the culprits in court and justice for all the victims and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr President. We're standing here almost four years after taking down the MH17 by a Russian Buk missile. We know that for sure now. Almost four years: I can imagine the impatience so well. You're so desperate for clarity, you're so desperate to see the culprits in court. But fortunately, even among the next of kin, I see a great deal of understanding and appreciation for everything that the cabinet and the research team do. I think that's right, too. I think that's right, Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also supports the line chosen by the cabinet. That actually applies to all three tracks, starting with the investigation. We are impressed by what the investigation team has done again. We are impressed by that. There is now undisputed evidence that that Buk missile came from Russia, so that it stands before a judge. A unique fingerprint, it's called JIT. The circle of people suspected of being involved has become much smaller. It was about a hundred people, there are now a few dozen. They are very important steps towards bringing those who are guilty to justice in the end. Following the publication of the report, the cabinet could not fail to take a further step. My colleagues have already talked about it. That state liability is such a next step and it is an important step, I think. As I said, we support that step. We hope that this will lead to recognition on the Russian side of liability. But we must also be honest and bear in mind that the chances of this happening in the foreseeable future are not very great. That is why the question to the cabinet is how we proceed from here. The diplomatic note was delivered to the Kremlin. The first reactions are not exactly encouraging, to put it mildly. How does the cabinet see the follow-up? I would like to join the previous speakers' question on the desirability and the possibility of other countries joining the liability statement and the efforts that the Netherlands is going to make in this regard. We can think of Malaysia and Belgium, but of course there are other grieving nations in the game, who might want to do the same. I am very curious to hear a reaction from the cabinet. Then there's the third trail. That is the path of the United Nations and of the resolution. That's what the Foreign Minister was in New York early this week for. I think it is right for the Minister to say a little more about what he has been getting from it, because it was obviously not the case that the shooting down of the MH17 was the subject of the session of the Security Council. This has led to the fact that, as far as I have been able to check, a number of countries present have not spoken about this. A number of other countries are, but not all. Would it be conceivable and desirable for the Netherlands to propose a separate session later in the year on the shooting down of MH17 and the failure to respect Security Council Resolution 2166? Is that something the Minister would think about and would it possibly be a good idea? Mr President, these are my questions. I repeat: we fully support the line set up by the cabinet along the three tracks. I like to join what my colleague Sjoerdsma said. The stupidest thing we can do is think that this will not eventually lead to results. Something will change in Russia, too. As a result of all our efforts, it is precisely when the international community is united and when we are united here in the Netherlands that we will increase the pressure. Eventually, the guilty will come to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. The national tragedy around flight MH17 is almost four years after an open wound, but we have come a step further in the search for justice and truth. Earlier it became clear that the murder weapon, the Buk installation, came from Russia and returned to Russia after the terrible attack, but now the judicial investigation team, the JIT, has made it plausible that the Buk installation was part of the 53rd air defence brigade of the Russian army. In other words, the owner of the Buk installation with which MH17 was shot down on 17 July 2014 is now obsolete. And that's profit. Mr. Chairman. The question of who pulled the trigger is not at issue today. The prosecution and trial of the perpetrators is independent of the state liability we are talking about today. However, on behalf of my group, the PVV Group, I would like to stress that the Netherlands must continue to do everything in its power to track down, prosecute and bring to justice the perpetrators. That goes no matter what passport the offenders may have. Whether it be Russians, Ukrainians, Nepalese or others. That is why I would like to hear from the government what steps the Netherlands is going to take to ensure that other countries take a conviction by default. Have our rulers done any work on this recently? Then there is the issue that is mostly at stake today, the issue of state liability. The fact that the murder weapon bears the stamp of the Russian army requires a credible and comprehensive statement from the Russian side, especially in view of the evidence now put on the table by the JIT. The fact that the Netherlands has held Russia liable is therefore a justified and logical step. On this point, the PVV agrees with the conduct of the cabinet. But the PVV disagrees with the cabinet on another point. In our view, all those responsible must face the consequences of their actions or omissions, to whatever extent they have contributed to that disaster. The PVV does not want a distinction. I ask the government if she agrees with us. Although the Cabinet leaves all legal options open, it now only targets Russia. But why isn't it chosen at this stage to focus the arrows on all those responsible? Why does the cabinet make a distinction here? That is unclear about the PVV and I hope I can get a response to that today. The PVV considers it remarkable that Ukraine's state liability is not considered at the same time, although there are reasons for this. The days before MH17 was shot down several Ukrainian military aircraft were shot down in the rebel area, but most importantly: Ukraine knew there was a Buk transport coming, an air defense plant that could bring down aircraft from significantly higher altitudes than on the previous days. And all that is evident from the tap of July 16th, so a day before it happened, in which it was announced that a Buk would come to the rebel region in Ukraine. That was a tap posted by the Ukrainian authorities. And now, afterwards, we know that the Buk had arrived within 24 hours and had done his murderous work. However, Ukraine simply left the airspace open. And that is a serious mistake for which Ukraine can be blamed. There seems to me to be at least careless action on the Ukrainian side. So the question is: why does the Netherlands not immediately hold Ukraine liable? Ukraine seems to have emerged from the dance, yet it seems that that country has also contributed to the disastrous chain of events that has led to the deaths of 298 people, including 196 of our compatriots. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. First a word of support and encouragement for the next of kin of flight MH17. Being the subject but not being able to direct requires a great deal of confidence, patience and strength. Then it is good to hear that the chairman of the Foundation Vliegramp MH17 says that he has full confidence in the efforts made by the Netherlands and the research team JIT to solve the issue. As before, the Party for Animals supports the way in which the government continues to place its three priorities at the centre. We can imagine that there is sometimes doubt as to whether the bottom stone will rise, but the results of the JIT seem to bring it closer. In particular, the chain of evidence that underpins the claim that the Buk plant came from the 53rd Air Defense Brigade helps to do so. Mr. Chairman. We have a few questions with which we aim to strengthen the unity of the approach. The Netherlands and Australia hold Russia liable for taking down flight MH17. Minister Blok states in the explanatory statement that the decision is separate from the criminal investigation and the possible prosecution and trial of the perpetrators. And he continues with: but these paths can be mutually reinforcing. We agree with the Minister. We are also confident that this mutual reinforcement can take place. At the same time, there seems to have been a trade-off. Can the Minister share and explain this balance with us? After all, where reinforcement is possible, weakening cannot be excluded. And we don't want any of that. It seems to us that the chain of evidence supporting the claim that the Buk plant came from the 53rd Air Defense Brigade is an important indication that there is a relationship with Russia. In this sense, we understand liability, because it is an instrument that can encourage Russia to cooperate. But criminal law doesn't seem to have the legal and convincing evidence yet. That would be necessary to make explicit statements on the question of guilt. After all, the JIT claims that there are still questions, as I quote, to what extent the brigade itself is actively involved in taking down flight MH17 on July 17, 2017. That is an important question that the JIT is still investigating. The letter from the Minister himself of 9 March also states that more evidence may be needed. I would like to explain this further. Mr. Chairman. We noticed that Malaysia and Belgium did not participate in the liability statement. Can the Minister clarify the motives of Belgium and Malaysia? Are these countries still expected to join in the liability statement? How's the trial going? Or is it possible that they are going to do that separately? Can the Minister explain that further? Do the governments of Belgium and Malaysia share the same conviction as the Dutch Government regarding this liability? Has there been any consultation and can you report on its conclusions here? Especially when it comes to the conclusions of great international legal significance, there can and should not be any doubt about the interpretations of countries whose residents have been directly affected by this tragedy. Mr. Chairman. I'll conclude. We see that the government is doing everything in its power to respect international law. This deserves our appreciation and support. We believe it is important that the government continues to invest in the relationship with the next of kin, and we also assume that the government does. It is in our view that she keeps asking the question whether her actions help the next of kin in the unified priorities with which I opened our contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday, the Joint Investigation Team, in which the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office cooperates with Australia, Ukraine, Belgium and Malaysia, presented new findings in the criminal investigation into taking down flight MH17. It was concluded that the Buk missile with which flight MH17 was shot came from the 53rd brigade from Kursk in the Russian Federation. No sooner, Mr President, has been pointed so explicitly and directly to Russia as guilty of the horrific deaths of 298 innocent people. One day later, Australia and the Netherlands decided to hold Russia liable. The country is held responsible for its share in bringing down flight MH17, almost four years ago. Australia and the Netherlands have asked Russia to enter into consultations with the aim of finding a solution that does justice to the enormous suffering and damage caused. This step can be supported by my group. It is a firm and rather unusual step in the diplomatic movement. Although the precise involvement of Russia is not known, there is clearly a Russian involvement as demonstrated by the presentation of the criminal investigation. The choice of a state liability procedure is therefore understandable. The Russian reaction is extremely sad. There would be nothing wrong with the criminal investigation that would be biased. It is very much to be hoped that Russia will come back to this sooner or later and will fully cooperate in achieving a comparison. It must end with oppositions and denials. The start of a state liability procedure at the moment also raises questions. Why, for example, have other countries not joined the liability statement by Australia and the Netherlands? Why is Belgium not participating, when the EU has unanimously supported this step by Australia and the Netherlands? Why are Ukraine and Malaysia not participating? Have these three countries been asked to participate? If that happened, but the offer was rejected, why was that? What arguments have they put forward for this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, there are international scholars who express the fear that, contrary to the government's expectations, a state liability procedure may indeed complicate the criminal investigation of the JIT. Mr Knoops, for example, does that. He points out unanswered questions about the crew of the Buk system and their precise instruction. He even warns of a right-wing impasse. Can the Minister respond to that? Isn't the state liability procedure coming too soon? After all, it was already known that the Buk came from Russia. In that sense, there hasn't been much news since last week. Can we discuss the timing, especially the timing of this liability? Finally and most importantly, Ukraine. The Security Research Council previously concluded, in 2015, that Ukraine should have closed down its airspace. A firm conclusion. The failure to do so led some survivors to go to the European Court of Human Rights. I would like to hear from the Minister why it was not chosen to also initiate a state liability procedure against Ukraine. Mr. Chairman. I hope that this has taken another step towards finding the truth, bringing the perpetrators to justice and justice for the victims and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. I guess I'll end up like a lot of colleagues. The moment you heard, on that 17th of July, four years ago, that a passenger plane was carved down in your memory. I suspect that several colleagues will also be able to tell us exactly what they were doing at the time or where they were. At least, that's the kind of thing that happens. You won't let that go. And now the step of the Joint Investigation Team with the conclusions that the shot came from a Buk installation of the 53rd Air Defense Brigade in Kursk. The Netherlands and Australia have jointly held Russia liable for its share in the downfall of flight MH17. That is an important step towards truth finding, justice and accountability. The Bible encourages us to do justice and justice. And in that perspective, the SGP sees these new results from the JIT study. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet, the research team, the Public Prosecutor's Office and all those involved on Australian and Dutch sides for their great and lasting efforts. However, as colleagues have pointed out, we are far from there. Our thoughts go out to the next of kin, who literally wait with sorrow for justice and justice. Mr. Chairman. Today, the SGP Group confines itself to three points. Firstly, the government has "no doubt" about the "incontrovertible evidence" of the Joint Investigation Team. Prime Minister Rutte stressed that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the JIT were in no way politically influenced. He also indicated that the fact is so serious that it justifies the liability. My question is this. Does "use of a Russian installation" under international law equal "it is Russian responsibility"? It seems like a bit of a hair clover, but I'd like to have some clarity about it. As a consequence, how does that state liability relate to the personal liability of Russian nationals who are responsible for the deployment of the Buk installation against flight MH17? Mr. Chairman. My next question concerns the fact that only Australia and the Netherlands, and not Malaysia and Belgium, have applied for liability. I agree with colleagues' questions as to whether they can be clarified. My final question is about the follow-up steps. So far, unfortunately, Russia has reacted negatively to the results of the JIT investigation and the liability statement. Russia constantly sheds new fog, smoke and dust. You hope that the country will stop playing its game of alternative explanations, but imagine now that Russia is persevering in its initial attitude. What consequences does this have for the follow-up process? Of course, Russia must assume its responsibility and ensure redress for this international crime, but if Russia is persevering, what are the consequences for the process? Finally, how will the European Union or the United Nations be involved in the further process? I would like to leave it at that, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. I stand here on behalf of my group to express my full support for the decision of the Cabinet to hold the Russian Federation liable for its part in taking down flight MH17. Let me first say that this period of reinforced coverage around MH17 must be a heavy burden for all next of kin on this flight. I can very well imagine that all the suffering, all the memories, all the emptiness will come up again. Missing one or more loved ones so suddenly has been an open wound for four years. And open wounds heal, especially when they're big, slowly. I wish all the next of kin a great deal of strength in this and I hope that the persistence of the cabinet, but also the persistence of us as Chambers, can partly be a Band-Aid on that wound. Mr. Chairman. The attack on flight MH17 was primarily an attack on the 298 people on board. But in a sense, in a derivative form, it's an attack on all of us. Every time we get ready to take the plane, every time we check in at Schiphol Airport, every time we sit in an airplane seat, we live on the assumption that we're safe, that we're going to achieve our goal comfortably and that it's just right. Removing a passenger flight with 298 people on board is primarily an infringement of the safety of the people on board, but also an infringement of the safety of all of us. That is the argument why all of us together should be behind the search for justice for years. That is why I wholeheartedly support Mr Ten Broeke's plea that we should like to work together on this as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. I would like to express a word of thanks to those cabinet members who have personally worked very hard on this matter in recent days. I am thinking in particular of the Prime Minister and also of the Foreign Minister who has made more miles in recent days than I will do in my entire life. It's seen and appreciated. Mr. Chairman. Let me also say a word of thanks to those involved in the criminal investigation, the JIT, as many colleagues have already said. Let us take an example of their perseverance and their work from the facts. What will they often be questioning: is there anything, can you tell us anything, what is the situation? However, they did not use the clock as a criterion, but the content. Even if the lie is so fast, the truth will get to him. The truth always has a slower pace than the lie. But speed is not the criterion in this case, but the content. We recognize this in the government's view. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question. I would like to join with the questions about Ukraine and the state's liability in that regard. I'm not going to repeat all that, but that seems to me to be relevant questions in this place. Colleagues De Roon and Karabulut have asked questions about this. Then about Malaysia. I saw reports today from the government of Malaysia which questioned the investigation quite a bit. What is the government's view on this? How do you deal with that? I'll conclude. The answer to Parliament's questions on state liability clearly shows that the cabinet is holding the cards against its chest with regard to the further strategy for making Russia liable. I refer to question 13. I understand that, especially right now. But how does the cabinet intend to take the Chamber into account in the coming period? Many questions have also been asked here today about the strategy and, above all, about the legal content of that state liability. I can quite imagine that there is a certain hesitation in the cabinet to give further substance to that at this time, because, I would almost say, der Feind hört mit. However, as a Member of Parliament, I would very much like to remain involved in the process, not so much from the point of view of control, but also in order to shape and support that unity. So I am very curious how the cabinet gives substance to smartness and unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u18	After the previous speakers, Madam President, many questions from 50PLUS will appear to you. The Netherlands and Australia hold Russia responsible for its share in bringing down flight MH17. That is exactly what the letter of 25 May says, and so did Minister Blok in the Security Council on Tuesday. Does "his share" mean that the cabinet assumes that there can also be the share of others? Minister Blok has already stated on several occasions that the government does not exclude any option in relation to state liability. This suggests all kinds of options, but in fact it is almost simply a question of whether Ukraine can be blamed? Can the Minister confirm that? In general, the liability of a State is not common. That too has been said many times today. The government's answers to written questions include a number of examples of state liability brought before international courts and tribunals. But why haven't the Netherlands and Australia chosen to refer the matter to an international court or tribunal already? The disaster involved several countries. This question has also been asked a great many times: why did these other countries not participate? Minister Blok indicated last week that he did not want to involve too many countries in the preparations, but does he expect more countries to join? Or is the aid still limited to the declarations we have seen from the European Union and a number of individual countries? And what, apart from Russia, were the reactions of the other members of the Security Council? We understand that the statements of support did not just come in, but that much and apparently good work has been done. But how far will that support go, I ask the ministers. In Brussels, Minister Blok indicated that, depending on Russia's response, further steps can be taken and that you also need other countries to do so. But has the Minister received any promises in this respect? Or are we going to be alone with Australia if we want to keep the Russians on their thumbscrews? What follow-up steps does the cabinet intend to take? It is clear from the written documents and the explanations by Minister Blok that the cabinet has little confidence in Russia's constructive response. Both the reactions from Moscow and the attitude of the Russian ambassador to the Security Council are certainly not hopeful. In addition, Russia is not participating in the implementation of Resolution 2166. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet clearly states that there is still a long way to go before some form of responsibility may be accepted. In the reaction of the Russians there is no serious handling of the evidence they put forward. Can the Minister of Justice and Security indicate what material it is about? Mr. Chairman. In addition to this new diplomatic offensive, the criminal investigation is ongoing. At an earlier stage, the risks of diplomatic action for the conduct of that investigation have been pointed out. Now, in his letter of 25 May, Minister Blok says that both paths can be mutually reinforcing and that the parallel use of both procedures can increase the effectiveness of the interventions. Can the Minister explain that? Mr. Chairman. Of course, the 50PLUS group also supports the government's decision to hold Russia liable. The reactions show that this is also very important for the next of kin. But what will the cabinet do if it turns out that Russia does not recognise liability but is prepared to pay out of coulance damages? This has happened before, not only by Russia but also by the United States, after the shooting down of civilian aircraft. Do we have the bottom stone upstairs? Is there a question of truth and justice? Please don't let the cabinet try to get away with refusing to answer questions like that. It worries the next of kin. So far, they're full of praise. They have a right to know where this cabinet stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "No state has the right to remain silent." That is what the Foreign Minister quite rightly said yesterday in the Security Council to his Russian colleague. "On the contrary," he continued, "every state has a duty to work constructively together, to shed light on the truth, not to cover it up." That is a firm and firm appeal from the Netherlands to the Russians: come clean and acknowledge your responsibility for bringing down the MH17. It is a good thing that the cabinet has taken this courageous step to make Russia officially liable. Happy support from the Christian Union for this apple. It is also good that the Netherlands has managed to get many other countries, as well as the EU and NATO behind this call. The more countries, the more support, the stronger the call. The next of kin are entitled to the bottom stone and the perpetrators will be tried, as the Prime Minister promised four years ago. Mr. Chairman. This leads to the following questions on behalf of my group. Why didn't all JIT countries co-sign the call, even though they also lost compatriots? How does Russia's liability as a state relate to the criminal case against individual suspects? Is there another risk of one crossing the other? Which court is the Netherlands going to choose for? Is that clear, or is that still under investigation? Isn't it most obvious to choose the European Court of Human Rights, also because Russia has signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is thus clearly accessible and obliged to provide information for the investigation? If Russia refuses to accept its responsibility, and given the reaction of the Russian Permanent Representative to the United Nations, what does that mean for such a liability procedure? Then what are the follow-up steps of this cabinet? Has Russia actually officially responded? If, even after this process, the Russians continue to refuse to cooperate sufficiently, does the government not exclude other diplomatic steps and even sanctions against Russia, with, of course, as much support as possible from other countries? Finally, how does the Minister see the support of the European Member States? Now there's a closed front. Unfortunately, the Belgians do not participate in the liability statement. How will a country such as Germany, which is so eager to connect to Russia via a gas pipeline, eventually act? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. The attack on flight MH17 four years ago left our country devastated. 298 people, including 196 Dutch, lost their lives. Their next of kin must continue with great sorrow and great loss. We can't undo that loss. I wish. Our mission now is to get the facts up, to enable research and to ensure that justice can be done. The Netherlands has the support of allies, including those countries directly affected by the attack. This week it appeared that all the countries in the European Union are around us. The Security Research Council and then the Joint Investigation Team have carried out thorough research. Their conclusions are crystal clear and indisputable. We now know how the MH17 was taken down and where the Buk missile came from. It was from Russia and was part of the 53rd brigade of the Russian army. In this way, Russia's involvement in the attack has been clearly established. It can't be without consequences. The cabinet, together with Australia, has therefore held Russia liable. The PvdA Group supports this step and thanks the Cabinet for its unwavering commitment to unraveling the truth. For example, Minister Blok was in Brussels this week to ask for support for the countries of the European Union and spoke to the UN Security Council in New York. Following the letters sent by the cabinet to the Lower House, my group has two questions for the Minister. In the letter of 9 March 2018, the Cabinet writes that conducting an investigation into the circumstances that led to the violation of international law by the responsible state, namely Russia, may be part of compensation for the victims and their survivors. This form of satisfaction, which could be of interest to the truth finding, is not explicitly mentioned in the diplomatic note handed over by the Netherlands and Australia to the Russian Federation. My group would like to hear from the Minister whether such an investigation in the cabinet's view could be part of that satisfaction. The second question has already been asked by a number of colleagues. This concerns cooperation with other countries. Besides the Netherlands and Australia, the research team consists of Malaysia and Belgium and cooperates with Ukraine. Has the cabinet consulted with the latter countries to support that liability? Are the other countries affected, such as Indonesia, the United Kingdom, Germany, the Philippines, Canada and New Zealand, who also have victims to regret, also involved in the talks? How are contacts with these countries going and can the Minister indicate how they are involved in the liability claim? Mr President, the great grief that has been caused to the relatives will never be removed. It is up to us, as has been said, to do everything possible to do justice to the 298 people who lost their lives almost four years ago. The PvdA Group thanks the cabinet for its efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u24	Madam President. Forum for Democracy supports Minister Blok in his justified and logical step to hold the Russian Federation liable for the damage suffered by the terrible MH17 tragedy. It is very important that not only the criminal law but also the private law aspects of this case are now assessed by an independent court or tribunal, so that the relatives of the victims of the MH17 tragedy get the compensation they are entitled to. This has happened before, for example, when the American warship USS Vincennes accidentally shot down flight 655 in the Persian Gulf of Iran Air in 1988, causing 290 deaths. Or when Ukraine accidentally brought down a Tupolev with 78 Israeli deaths during a military exercise on Crimea in 2001. That was Siberia Airlines Flight 1812. In both cases compensation has been paid to the survivors of the victims. And that must be done now in the MH17 case. Despite our objections to the secret agreements between the Netherlands and Ukraine, which means that we do not know what information Ukraine has withheld in the criminal investigation, the findings of the JIT, as presented last week, seem convincing to us. The conclusion that the Russian unit probably took down MH17 by mistake seems plausible. Since the Ukrainian government carried out heavy bombings on the eastern part of the country, where the Russian separatists were based, it is indeed possible that Russia, through advanced air defence systems, wanted to help the pro-Russian separatists, who were frequently bombed by Ukraine. At the same time, we believe that other parties could bear private liability and as such could be liable for damages. First of all, we are thinking of Ukraine itself, which chose to keep the airspace above 32,000 feet open on July 17, 2014, despite the fact that it was aware of the intense acts of war in the east of the country and three days before that a Ukrainian Antonov was shot down at an altitude of 21,300 feet. In the three months prior to the MH17 disaster, no less than sixteen different aircraft were taken down in the area concerned. At the very least, it seems to us that this may be a matter of careless or negligent and culpable action on the part of Ukraine. We also want to have examined whether Malaysia could be liable for damages, because its airline, Malaysia Airlines, has made the decision to fly over this war zone anyway, despite the fact that it was known that anti-aircraft guns were present and used. Several other airlines have not flown over the area for some time on July 17th. The Americans had already warned "to exercise extreme caution due to the continuing potential for stability" on 3 April 2014. Despite the fact that the OVV report exempts Malaysia Airlines from liability, we believe that this too should be subject to the judgment of an independent judge. That flight MH17 should never have flown there on July 17, 2014 is something everyone agrees on. Finally, from this house and on behalf of the Forum for Democracy, I would like once again to express our support for the relatives, for the many people who have to miss their loved ones every day, and to underline the intention that this matter should continue to pay our utmost attention. The next of kin must receive maximum compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u25	As someone who in his first term called for as much unity as possible around the steps taken by the Dutch Government, I welcome the fact that Mr Baudet is taking that line here today. But allow me, Mr President, to ask him how this relates to previous statements made by Mr Baudet outside this Chamber. It is good that I can address him here in this Chamber. In early 2016, you announced in a tweet that you also considered it plausible that the CIA was responsible for taking down MH17. Later that year, you wrote a letter to President Trump because you didn't really have any faith in the JIT investigation. May I conclude from your contribution today that you distance yourself from your previous positions in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u26	I do not know exactly which tweet Mr Ten Broeke means, but I can say something about the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u27	Can I help you with the date?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u28	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u29	Or maybe you could hand it over to me through the messenger, if that's convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u30	On April 28, 2016, I believe there was a tweet. I have also spoken about this in the election campaign. Then you remembered it in the end. In it, you shared the suggestion that the CIA would be responsible for taking down flight MH17 with your followers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u31	What is the exact text of the tweet? Do you have it with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u32	I was wondering, now that you mention another statement plausible and then at least sent that statement, combined with a letter of which you seem to remember the date. That was November 24th, I thought. Does that mean you're reviewing your position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u33	Again, I do not know which tweet Mr Ten Broeke means, but I can say something...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u34	You may respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u35	Why don't you read it to me or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u36	No, I think the question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u37	I can say something in a general sense. We have always had the view, and I still think, that everyone seeks maximum truth in this incredibly complicated dossier. I'll get that tweet in a minute. I'll say something about that letter first. The letter I co-signed points out that a secret agreement was made between the Netherlands and Ukraine, in which secrecy was stipulated. This agreement, as is evident from an article in the Trouw of 19 November, remains secret. That remains a problem as far as we are concerned. That's what I said in my speech. Nevertheless, the research results presented by the JIT last week appear to me thoroughly and plausible as an explanation. Does that mean I know for sure how it went, as some people here claim today? No, I think it's something that's still running. That is what the JIT itself indicates. The story's not finished yet. It is not yet said to know with scientific certainty how it has gone, but when I judge it that way, as I have also indicated in my speech, it is a thorough investigation that is what I see, and a plausible explanation. At the same time, you don't know what you don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u38	It is a good thing that Mr Baudet now points out that he considers the JIT research not only plausible, but also thorough. I haven't heard anyone say he knows for sure what happened. I'd like to tell those people to report to the JIT as well. That's exactly the goal...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u39	In my view, my predecessor, Mrs Ploumen, said that it has now become undisputed. I think that's very much intrigued.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u40	She must speak for herself, but I think she meant to say that an involvement has been established. That doesn't mean an unsub has been identified. I said the same thing in my first term. I'm glad we can make that determination. I think this is important in the search for a national unity around the steps taken by the Dutch Government. Then there is the other point, the one relating to the letter. So you wrote in that letter in November 2016 that you actually wanted to do the investigation over. How do you reflect on that now that you're here in the House of Representatives, now that you've been elected?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u41	I regret and regret that there is a secret agreement with Ukraine, where we probably do not know that, because that agreement is secretly Ukraine has been given a certain say in what dates, what facts and which are not taken into account and taken into account in the criminal investigation. That's a problem. I think that is a fairly obvious legal problem. But the world goes on. It's already a year and a half later. We're in this situation now. I do not think it is very realistic to come up with completely new agreements. We live in the present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u42	I want an answer to my question and it is actually very simple. We have had a lot of debates about the MH17, also about the research assignments for the JIT and how we would do that and before that about the OVV. Wide in the Chamber there are all kinds of questions about that. We will have another debate on the MH17 Treaty. The questions you are asking about state liability for other countries have also been raised here by political groups, but this question is very simple. Let me make it even clearer: would you send the letter you sent to the US President in November 2016 again today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u43	Well, no, not today. But it was a year and a half ago. I support the fact that I signed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u44	Then Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u45	Mr. Chairman. Let me repeat what I just said, so that what I said is clear. They were, in fact,: Russia's involvement in the attack was clearly established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u46	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 3.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u47	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u48	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the Cabinet, I would like to express my thanks for the broad support I have received today for the decision of the Dutch Government, together with the Government of Australia, to hold the Russian Federation liable for its involvement in the shooting down of flight MH17. A step that the cabinet has taken, as I have heard all Members of Parliament quite rightly say, because we are fully aware of the lack of life that the families of 298 passengers have to live out day by day. Every step the government takes in cooperation with and supported by governments of other countries, every step we take is aimed at the ultimate goal: to bring the perpetrators to justice and to compensate the survivors. Against this background, Mr Grapperhaus will address the questions raised regarding the progress of legal aid applications, how possible default sentences will be dealt with and how the coincidence and possible reinforcement between the legal pathways deployed, the criminal route and the state's liability path will be handled. I will answer the questions that dealt with the choice and progress of the state liability pathway, and then the questions that have been asked about the international responses that have been made and the expectations that the cabinet has about the future of these international responses. First of all, I would like to stress that the decision to hold the Russian Federation liable was not taken lightly. On May 24, the JIT concluded that the Buk installation with which flight MH17 was shot was part of the Russian army. This was a sharper demonstration than the information previously provided, namely that the plant originated in Russia. The combination of this hard information with the investigation carried out earlier by the Cabinet and also shared with the Chamber on the possibilities of a state liability, the combination of these two data, led to the decision of the Council of Ministers immediately after the press conference of the JIT that state liability should now be invoked, together with Australia. In doing so, we have two objectives: that Russia recognizes its responsibility and that Russia does justice to the enormous suffering it has caused. This request was made to the Russian Government by diplomatic note. I have taken very good note of the reactions, both during the telephone conversation I had with Russian minister Lavrov, and in various media statements. There is not yet a formal response, as Minister Lavrov said during my phone conversation that the documents we have handed over would of course be examined. In any case, the continued reactions up to now do not constitute a reason for the Dutch cabinet to set a different course. As the government of the country with the most victims, knowing that we are facing a just cause, we will continue, even when there are persistent reactions. At the same time, with a combination of careful arguments and the organisation of international support, we will keep pressure on Russia, increase pressure on Russia to ultimately do what we ask: recognise responsibility and ensure satisfaction. Then Mr Ten Broeke was the first to ask, and many others after him, why other countries that regret the victims do not participate. The Netherlands informed the JIT countries concerned of the intention prior to last Friday's decision. In doing so, we have indicated that each country must make its own assessment. The Netherlands and Australia have made this decision after careful preparation. Other countries are free to join, but I also respect that they need time to do so and ultimately make their reflections. There are different considerations for each country, which are partly internal politics. Specifically, it was asked whether Ukraine will be involved in the liability statement. Ukraine's situation is specifically in the sense that Ukraine has no victims of its own, that Ukraine itself has started its own other case against Russia before the International Court. It is quite different from one country to another which international conventions have been signed. This can also play a role in deciding whether or not to participate. In short, it is not the case that the Netherlands and Australia do not want to involve other countries, but we have quickly found that we have the space together and feel the great need to take these steps. We are happy to offer other countries concerned the opportunity to join us when appropriate. The next question asked by Mr Ten Broeke is whether the Russian Federation can avoid the trial or its liability. We have now taken the first step. I fully understand the desire to speculate on what can happen, ranging from the outcome that we ultimately want to avoid to the complete.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I really ask the Chamber to understand that the government always has the ultimate objective of recognising Russia's liability and providing compensation for the next of kin. There are a lot of scenarios for that. The invitation is now to do so in good consultation. There are all kinds of legal routes conceivable for all kinds of courts that question was also asked on all kinds of grounds. But in order to achieve that goal, it is very important that we operate very carefully at the same time. You have already been able to see how much is being done in each step of this step, but also in previous steps there are accusations and suggestions from all sides that there would be carelessness or too fast running. We want to achieve that end goal. We must also be very careful to achieve this goal, and Mr Van Dam said that I believe that the most explicit thing is to hold the cards to their chests when it comes to concrete process steps. I am going to say this again on specific questions later, and I say that we are not ruling anything out. But it would not help the objective that we all share, if I have heard the Chamber correctly, if I had to work out different scenarios with you in public. Mr Sjoerdsma asked for an assessment of the time. That too is a very logical question that is difficult to answer, because there can be a lot of follow-up steps, partly in public, but partly in private. It may be that we are in a situation in which nothing has yet happened in public, but in which we have, in private, signals or consultations that could lead to the situation where we want to land. Then again, it would not be helpful if I had now mentioned a date that would have gotten in our way at that time. So here, too, all the understanding of the question. As soon as I have the opportunity or Mr Grapperhaus has the opportunity to be more specific about it, we will not fail to do so, but here too I ask you to understand that I cannot fix it on a date. But the whole cabinet feels an enormous urgency. Then Mrs Ploumen specifically asked how the Chamber would be involved in the progress. This question, too, is a very logical one from the control function of the parliament. Here, too, I am committed to making both progress and to sharing information with you in public whenever possible. It may also be that the Cabinet needs to share information confidentially with you against the background I just gave. If you feel the need, you know where to find us. Here again, balancing between the legitimate desire of the parliament to be able to control on the basis of public information and the need sometimes not to tell us something, as we could not do in part with state liability and in part with some of it. In the March letter we could inform you in general about the course of such a process and the routes that were there, but for last Friday we could not inform you about the precise step we could announce at that time. Mrs Karabulut asked whether the state's liability was too early. I indicated in my introduction that there were actually two routes coming together: the route of pre-investigation state liability that the Dutch government had deployed together with the Australian government; the e-mail you could read about it in general; and the announcement by the JIT that there would be additional information. In general, the government had that information a little earlier, so the announcement that that additional information would be forthcoming. I was only able to learn about the precise information at the presentation. At least those two information streams came together. So that was also the moment that immediate urgency was needed. At that time it was no longer logical to study extensively. We were then able to take this step forward in consultation with the Australian Government. Mr. De Roon asked first, but others followed him...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u49	Thanks for the answer. Let's talk about timing. Some things about the crew, who exactly accompanied the Buk from Russia et cetera is of course still unknown. A country such as Malaysia thinks it is too early at the moment, I believe, through the Minister for Transport. He's waiting for the final report in July. Could the Minister comment on what might have been even more precise the considerations of taking this step of liability at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u50	Yes. The Malaysian Minister was also mentioned by Mr Baudet, so I will get to that in a moment. In fact, Mrs Karabulut is asking whether further information could be available, for example about the crew and, yes, who pulled the trigger. I sincerely hope so. Of course, the research of the JIT is also aimed at this. For the government, the consideration was to take this step now that the information the JIT announced on Thursday showed that the used Buk was in any case owned by the Russian army. Mr Bishop asked: is the fact that the installation was owned by the Russian army sufficient basis for state liability? Yes. That is the conviction of the Dutch and Australian governments. The action for which the State is held liable must be imputable to a State. At the moment when military equipment, very deadly military equipment, is used, that is now beyond doubt demonstrated.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I sincerely hope that there will be even more precise information, which can be traced back to those responsible. In any case, we would be culpable to act too slowly if, after the announcement by the JIT of Thursday, we had been waiting for further information, all the more so because the JIT announced that on the part of the Russian Federation, despite the fact that UN Resolution 2166 calls on states to cooperate, this information had not been provided. This information must be known in Russian military circles. So these two facts together led us to the inevitable conclusion that we should now call in the liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u51	Clear. It was also not a question of suggesting that you were too fast or too slow, but more so that you could understand it. The Minister and this cabinet are right to adopt a step-by-step approach to finding truth. The Minister's answer is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mr De Roon and later Mr Baudet asked whether the cabinet would also hold Ukraine liable. They referred to the passage in the OVV report that Ukraine could have closed down airspace as a precautionary measure. That passage is known to the cabinet. I indicated at the beginning that the cabinet does not exclude anything, but this single passage in the OVV report is not yet a hard legal basis to take that step. Once again, I am not ruling out anything, but this does not mean that the legal basis is present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u53	Before you proceed, Mr Baudet has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u54	According to the Minister, what is the legal status of the interim findings published by the JIT last week? That's not a legal ground in that sense, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u55	Sure, it's got a whole different character. It has been reported that the weapon used was the property of the Russian Federation's army. That's hard evidence. That is enough to say: you are liable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u56	What is the legal status of that JIT interim report according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u57	Legal status is that hard evidence has been provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u58	Then what judge validated that evidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u59	Mr Baudet knows the answer to that. This is a criminal investigation, so this eventually leads to a courtroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u60	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u61	So no judge has validated this. Then it's not hard legal evidence, is it? It's a claim, a statement, something's being argued. It's not proven. It's not a legal statement. It's a charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u62	I was pleased with Mr Baudet's contribution, in which he expressed his appreciation for the evidence provided and the way in which the JIT and our Public Prosecutor's Office carried it out in an independent and thorough manner. I also think that the people who have been working on this for four years deserve to be appreciated. If an independent Public Prosecutor's Office puts convincing evidence on the table in cooperation with the public ministries of other countries, that is hard evidence. Next thing you know, a judge gets to work on that. That's how it's supposed to be in a rule of law. The state's attorney's office put hard evidence on the table here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u63	I'm sorry, but it's really a matter of national law. Politics is now going to assess the probative value of something the prosecution argues. I thought we had a trias politician in this country. I thought it was up to the judge and not politics to assess the legal status of evidence presented by the D.A.'s office. I'm really sorry. I said in my speech that I think it is thorough and convincing myself, but that does not make it legally established. That's up to the judge. I think the Minister is making a very fundamental mistake here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u64	It is good to hear that Mr Baudet once again confirms that he considers the evidence and working methods to be sound. That is a real gain from this debate. What's happening here is this. The Dutch Government shall represent the legal person State and shall hold another legal person liable on the basis of evidence provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u65	I understand that, but that's not the issue right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u66	Finally, because otherwise it will be a repeat of question and answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u67	The point is to hold a third party liable. The Minister says that there is now hard legal evidence against Russia and not against Ukraine; therefore, we do not hold Ukraine liable. But there's no hard legal evidence. There's only one claim. There's a state's attorney's claim that the evidence is coming. But it hasn't been hammered off by a judge yet. A judge hasn't said, "Yes, it's been proven." Legally, there is no difference in the position we take vis-à-vis the Russian Federation and Ukraine. That's just a matter of state law. I don't understand why the Minister could disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u68	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr Baudet suggested in his earlier interruption that there would be a political judgment here. The Dutch Government shall represent the legal person State. You, as a chamber, have a political judgment on that. I took good note of that. We represent the legal entity State. In this responsibility, on the basis of this hard evidence, we have held another legal entity, the Russian Federation, liable. There's nothing political about that. This is a task that you can expect from the government of the country that regrets most of the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u70	Once with the Secretary of State, there is a need for a hard means of proof for liability. But we do, Mr. Chairman. That is the tap conversation that was recorded by the Ukrainian services themselves the day before MH17 was shot and in which the rebels discuss with each other that a Buk is coming. Then you know that this Buk is entering the eastern area of Ukraine, the rebel region. The intention of bringing in a duck is to be able to shoot with it. It doesn't come to be exhibited in a square. So it means Ukraine knew that thing was coming. Knowing that you can also shoot higher with a Buk than in the days before, one had the responsibility to raise the ceiling above which can be safely flown. They didn't. That's culpable action. You gave a hard one to hold a state liable, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u71	This situation is very different from what Mr Baudet has just mentioned. Mr De Roon refers to a public conversation. He's not referring to the D.A.'s finding. That is a fundamental difference from the situation I have just discussed with Mr Baudet. I have already indicated that it may also be possible for responsibilities of others, including Ukraine, to be addressed. At the moment, I do not have, either from the Public Prosecutor's Office or from the JIT, a ruling on Ukraine's responsibility, as I do have on the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u72	It seems to me to be an exaggerated demand that the Minister should say that this is the hardest means of proof and that he will only then take action. I'm fine with the State's Attorney's office saying that. I think she should say the same thing, but if she doesn't say it, the hard evidence is still on the table. The evidence was provided by Ukraine itself. Then the Minister can't say he's waiting for the JlT to say anything about it, can he? He might as well ask. I still think the Minister should look into it thoroughly. Ukraine really has something to explain about this, and that can be enforced by the Minister by making the state liable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u73	This is a very special debate. First of all, Mr Baudet, I believe that I am being promoted as a lawyer and I am being held accountable by the Russian Federation on behalf of the cabinet after the prosecution of evidence by the Public Prosecutor. Next, Mr De Roon, also a highly educated lawyer and former public prosecutor, urges me not to take that action without evidence from the Public Prosecutor. This leads to one conclusion: it is incredibly important to be very careful. I have indicated that when it comes to the liability of others than the Russian Federation, I do not rule out anything, but I have heard this debate even more convinced that it is important to proceed very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u74	But with that hard evidence I just described, the Minister can already go to Ukraine and say: you have some explaining to do, tell me what's going on; why didn't you close the airspace, when you could have and should have done so? I'm really not convinced by the Minister's story that the D.A. has to decide whether to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u75	Mr. De Roon leans completely the other way, in the sense of: cut off a few turns to achieve your goal. The big risk of cutting turns is that you fly off the bend. This means, in this case, that something very serious is happening, namely that you are not achieving the objective for which we are standing, that you cannot bring the guilty to justice. Just heard the great difference in reasoning between the two representatives of the people, I can only come to the conclusion: to operate very carefully, step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u76	The next high-ranking attorney is coming forward. I would like to ask the Minister the following question. I can understand why the cabinet is not currently taking that step of state liability towards Ukraine. Let's get the facts straight there, too. But what does this fact-finding mean in the direction of Ukraine, and in particular in the case of airspace not being closed in time? I certainly have the impression that the activities of the JIT are mainly focused on shooting the plane out of the sky. But who is doing a fact-finding on whether or not airspace is closed, so that ultimately, on the basis of facts, the cabinet could judge whether or not Ukraine should also be called upon to act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u77	The JIT has a broad mandate. If it comes to the conclusion that there is reason to hold others liable, then it has every freedom to do so. As a cabinet, of course, we follow carefully what the JIT comes up with in its independence. If we have supplementary questions or concerns because we do not see the obvious questions answered, then we will not sit still.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u78	I am going to think about that again, because I honestly have difficulty with that. I can't tell you how sorry I am that you're giving the State's Attorney's Office and the police room to conduct that investigation. I think it is also a force that we, as politicians, stand at a distance from it. However, if, after a number of years of research, it appears that this research has only focused on one thing and not on the other, then I would have great difficulty with that. I still have to think about what that means, but I think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u79	Okay, I'll just have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u80	Just a moment on the issue of whether or not to hold Ukraine liable, because I do not quite understand it yet. The JIT does not ultimately determine whether or not that step is taken. We know from the OVV research that Ukraine should have shut down that airspace. That's serious, that's a fact. If I listen carefully to the Minister, he says that this needs to be further investigated in order to be able to take that step towards Ukraine's state liability. Then what should be investigated by whom?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u81	In a rule of law, the lead usually lies with the Public Prosecutor's Office, as Mr Van Dam pointed out. Fortunately, we have a state's attorney's office that isn't controlled by the government. So we're following closely the results of that investigation. If we, as a government, were to find gaps, we could, of course, carry out a follow-up investigation, but at the moment, the JIT and the Public Prosecutor's Office are leading the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u82	Surely the lead lies not with the JIT to hold another state liable? After all, the JIT did not do that either with regard to Russia. You did that because you represent our state. So I still need a clear answer. I can understand why this is now a priority. But that cannot mean that Ukraine's liability, with the facts that we now know, namely that Ukraine should have closed down its airspace, will not be further investigated and that no trial will take place on that point. That would be incredibly unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u83	Mrs Karabulut is also going too fast in her conclusions. I've indicated that I'm not ruling anything out. I have also indicated that I do not want to cut any corners, so not as Mr De Roon suggested without additional evidence, I would like to proceed to a liability statement. But I'm not ruling it out. Again, I would find it very undesirable that the Dutch government should direct the Public Prosecutor's Office. At least on the content. We will do that in terms of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u84	It is not customary for the government to interfere in the substantive investigations of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is not customary, but it is possible and it has happened in the past. The gentleman sitting next to you, the Minister of Justice and Security, who is authorized to do so, who is competent to say to an investigating authority: I would like you to investigate this or that further. I therefore propose that the government order the JIT to further deepen that state liability issue of Ukraine, for which I have referred to a hard pointer, that is to say, that telecommunications should continue to be discussed. We shouldn't wait on that. Ukraine should also be held liable, if possible. And if you say that further research is needed, then it should be done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u85	And the gentleman sitting there, that's the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u86	The Minister of Justice and Security has a designation authority. That is a very, very radical means, and I think that is once used. The minister probably knows that himself. That is so profound, because it traverses the independence, at the heart of the trias politicians, at the heart of the way in which we set up the Dutch rule of law. That is a huge step in any case. This is all the more a step towards a very far-reaching research which is constantly being disseminated as if it were not to happen independently. And then you're going to take such a big step against that backdrop! Really, I think that in the rule of law that is the Netherlands, we should let the Public Prosecutor do his important work. I admire the way in which this has been happening very persistently for four years now. Should we find any gaps in this after the end of the investigation, then we can conclude that follow-up research is taking place. But now I would find intervention in the Dutch rule of law really far too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u87	It would damage the independence of the investigation if the government set a certain course which the Public Prosecutor would then have to follow, leaving out other things. That would indeed damage the independence of the investigation. But that's not what I'm talking about in this case. I just want the public prosecutor to be given a mandate to find out more in the interests of the country, in the interests of the next of kin and in the interests of all of us, about Ukraine's state liability. Again, there is a strong indication that this state liability can be addressed. If the government says she needs more evidence for that, the JIT has to deliver it. You can give the order, I say to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u88	Mr De Roon uses the addition "only" for a very special intervention by the government at the independent Public Prosecutor's Office. I indicated: this is not just a "just" step, it is a very important step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u89	I believe that we have also discussed very extensively in previous debates the fact that airspace has not been completely closed down. The Minister says two things, I think. Firstly, the priority now is to get justice and to get the culprits in court. Hence the state's liability towards Russia. Secondly, the cabinet does not actually exclude any legal route. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u90	Check. That's a correct summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u91	I think that also takes a lot of the concerns I hear here, largely away. I would like to ask myself a question about Russian liability. The results obtained from the past, of course, do not guarantee the future, but I am curious whether this minister has examples of times when Russia has finally shown itself to be responsible. Has Russia fulfilled that responsibility and has Russia been prepared to make restitution, compensation, apology and that kind of thing? I ask this because, if I do, we have another case on the Arctic Sunrise and we have had EUR 5.4 million from Russia for at least nine months. Maybe the Minister can go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u92	Mr Sjoerdsma rightly notes that there is an ongoing matter between the State of the Netherlands and the Russian Federation. It's not finished yet. I will try to have an answer to the first question in the second term. I do not know by heart whether the Russian Federation has previously recognised liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u93	The Minister will return to that in the second term, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u94	That's nice. Maybe we can take the EUR 5.4 million with us right away. Then it's also clear how they're dealing with that right now. I'll give you that. I do know a number of things in the past in which Russia, for example when it was a South Korean aircraft, eventually moved something. But the question is to what extent we can rely on past results.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u95	My group is pleased that we are now setting up the state liability of Russia, just to try to force their cooperation in the JIT investigation first. At the same time, it is also necessary for a successful conclusion of the JIT investigation that we can do a far-reaching form of interrogation, for example on Ukrainian soil by Dutch police officers and OM staff. This has happened in recent years, and we must continue to do so; we must be able to get to everyone. That is why I understand the reluctance to impose that state liability there, regardless of the proportional difference in the taking of evidence. I have previously asked a question about Russia's cooperation with the Minister, which has not yet been answered. I'd like to take it back to that. As far as I am concerned, a gap is that we do not have sufficient material insight, other than the questions about how often Russia refuses to cooperate or does not cooperate sufficiently. I can see the Foreign Minister pointing out that this question will be on his colleague's plate shortly. Then I'd like to come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u96	Yes, I had already indicated at the beginning that legal aid issues will be answered by Mr Grapperhaus. I now come to the questions about the international responses to the findings of the JIT and the decision of the Dutch and Australian governments. Directly on 24 and 25 May, a large number of statements of support have already been received from both countries that have victims themselves, as well as from other countries and organisations, including the European Union, and from the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of NATO. On Monday, at the European Foreign Affairs Council, I gave a further explanation of the decision to the fellow foreign ministers and I received further extensive support there. On Tuesday I also explained the Dutch decision in the UN Security Council, in view of the representative of the Russian Federation. There, too, I have received very strong support from the vast majority of the countries present. Mr Bishop asked how we would involve the EU and the UN in the next steps. There's a very formal side to it anyway. The Netherlands, or rather the investigation team, is obliged by Resolution 2166 to inform the UN Security Council about the progress of the investigation. Both the results of the JIT on 24 May and the decision of the Dutch and Australian governments on 25 May were formally notified to the UN Security Council. We will continue to inform the UN Security Council on formal grounds in the follow-up to the JIT or the Dutch Government, possibly together with other governments. At the same time, in the follow-up steps, which I mentioned may include a very broad palette, we will ensure that both the JIT partners and the wider circle of the affected countries, but also the wider circle of EU countries and the international community through the United Nations, are constantly informed and asked for support. The question was also how I estimate that support will continue to develop. During my presentation and during the conversations around it I met extensive and sincere support for the steps that the Netherlands and Australia are taking now. We are aware of how much suffering is still present in our countries in relation to next of kin. One realizes how much that responsibility is felt by the government. It is also being realized that this will make us the target of Russian misinformation and of Russian threats. At the same time, therefore, this great support is expressed. That leads me to the conclusion that we must continue. It also leads me to the conclusion that we can retain that support, but it is always up to us to obtain it. Of course, there are really countries that will immediately say 'we are behind you', but it is then up to me and my people at the Foreign Office to ensure that countries are informed and taken with them. But on the basis of these experiences as well as previous experiences, I am positive about this international support, which is also very important and continues to keep pressure on Russia to ultimately do what we ask them to do. Mr Baudet, and I also thought Mr Van Dam, asked for a response to yesterday's statement by the Malaysian Minister for Transport. That was surprising indeed. Of course, there was already extensive contact through the JIT, because Malaysia is a member of it. Prime Minister Rutte has been in contact with the Malaysian Prime Minister last week, and has had support there, prior to this ruling. I interpret this statement in the light of the fact that the Malaysian Government has taken office very recently and not as a change of course for an affected country, which has the most victims after the Netherlands. In addition, the plane came from Malaysia. I therefore assume that the intensive cooperation we have had so far will continue. Then I hope that I have answered the questions I have been asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u97	I would like to come back to the issue of the international community's support for the follow-up that the Netherlands has now taken and which the Foreign Minister has been explaining, first in Brussels and then in New York. The Minister says there's a lot of support for that. I asked him the following question. You may be able to distinguish between the support for the follow-up that the Netherlands is taking with Australia in this case and the collective responsibility of the UN Security Council for the fact that resolutions adopted unanimously by that Security Council, such as Resolution 2166, are actually being implemented. That led me to the question: would it perhaps be conceivable that later this year or later in the process a session should be devoted specifically to this by the Security Council? I think it's two different things. That's what I was going to put to the Minister. Support for the follow-up to be taken and the collective responsibility for implementing a resolution adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr Van Ojik has indeed put that question so explicitly. The representative of the Russian Federation explicitly reiterated at the UN Security Council meeting last Tuesday that the Russian Federation considered itself bound by Resolution 2166. At the moment, therefore, I do not see any reason for any further steps, but where I have already used the phrase 'I do not exclude anything' a few times, this also applies to possible follow-up actions via the UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u99	Then perhaps the Minister does not want to do so in public for once. If the Russian ambassador to the UN has apparently said once again that Russia is implementing Resolution 2166, then in the future something of this will have to become visible. The fact that Russia is cooperating in the implementation of that resolution, as I understand from the last report, has not been visible to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u100	Sure. In addition, I come back to the same situation that I outlined earlier, namely that I share the impatience. I understand that it would have the benefit of simplicity to formulate a time, but I can end up damaging the end goal if we get inside signals that there is cooperation in the creation and then we fall into the trap of our own time limit. For that reason, achieving the final objective, I do not want to commit to that time limit. Once again, there is also a UN route where this option remains explicitly open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a photo finish, I think. I want to ask a question about the moment Thursday, the press conference in which the evidence was provided by the JIT. I hope I paraphrase the Minister well, but he said it was actually two things. Russia does not participate in the information gathering and should have done so. In addition, culpable action was found because a Buk missile was deployed from the possession of the Russian army and was eventually used to bring down the MH17. That's a watershed. That is, as the Minister says, hard proof. My question is: does this have any consequences for the attitude of the Netherlands towards Russia in other cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u103	I have also indicated in previous debates on Russia that we are dealing with a very complicated relationship, that Russia is very much to blame. MH17 is the topic at the top of the agenda for the Netherlands, but there are also the Russian annexation of Ukraine, the Russian involvement in the civil war in eastern Ukraine, the Russian involvement in the terrible violence in Syria and the non-cooperation of the poison gas attack on Mr Skripal and his daughter. There is a very complex set of facts where Russia is very much to blame. At the same time, it is in the interests of resolving these facts, but also from the observation that Russia is a large neighbour of the European Union, that we keep communication channels open. Where we can continue to do business with each other without compromising the solution of these important problems, we must continue to do so. Doing business is also a way of communicating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u104	I think that the Minister's long list means, at least that is how I interpret it, that Russia really is a threat to peace and security on this continent in a broader sense. That doesn't just apply to the MH17. It is indeed about the annexation of Crimea, about the clarification of the use of chemical gas in the United Kingdom and other matters. Let me get this straight. I agree that we should always be in touch. Otherwise we cannot solve these problems. But I do not hear the Minister say that we must change our attitude towards Russia, regardless of the state's liability, in other areas as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u105	Not at present in the sense of additional measures, whether they relate to diplomatic contacts or trade contacts. There too, I cannot rule out anything, but at the moment I have no reason to take additional steps in these areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u106	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u107	The Minister said about the other JIT countries that Ukraine is not participating and that Belgium has political internal reasons not to support the declaration, so I hear through between the rules. Malaysia does support it, but I do not yet hear the Minister say that Malaysia is actually participating in the claim. How does the Foreign Minister explain that Malaysia, the second country in terms of victims, is not behind the claim?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u108	Then I come to the complicated situation where I have to assess the internal political balance of another country. I find it incredibly important that I, as a member of the Dutch Government, should be able to say: we have sufficient evidence to hold the Russian Federation liable. I really feel that as my responsibility. We are the government of the country with the most casualties. How other governments deal with their responsibilities, whether they feel sufficiently covered by the treaties they have signed or not, whether they feel sufficiently covered by internal political relations, is a consideration which they have to make and which they also have to answer to their people and their parliament. So I can only say: we share the information and invite the countries to participate, if appropriate. But I cannot speculate what is ultimately the decisive factor in another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u109	I will not ask any further, but I assume that the Minister has done everything in his power to obtain as much support as possible from the JIT countries and that so far it has not been possible to do so with regard to Malaysia. That is of course where they make their own assessment. I was more interested in what those considerations were, but I understand that they were also politically internal relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u110	That's right, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u111	The fact that countries make and have to make their own trade-offs is obvious, but just to clarify: are Belgium and Malaysia invited to participate? After all, the Netherlands and Australia have taken this step. Have these two other countries been asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u112	They have the opportunity to participate, and they know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u113	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u114	Madam President. First of all, I would like to express my thanks for the broad appreciation I have heard in the Chamber today for the work of the Joint Investigation Team, the JIT. Last week's presentation of the JIT showed that one is getting closer and closer to the truth about taking down flight MH17. I have great respect for the way the JIT conducts its independent research, with a great deal of expertise and care. And the research results are an important step towards justice for the 298 victims and their next of kin. The latter also deserve a great deal of respect for their patience. This is a step leading to the bringing to justice of those responsible for taking down flight MH17. I would like to stress once again that prosecuting individuals in criminal proceedings and making a state liable in a state liability procedure are two separate cases. They are different procedures, with a different legal framework. The decision to hold the Russian Federation liable for its part in taking down flight MH17 is a cabinet decision taken on the basis of an analysis by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That analysis is based on "I want it to be clearly stated here " JIT information that has been made public; information from the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is shared with Foreign Affairs under the legal framework; intelligence information; information from public sources and from its own legal investigation. The Joint Investigation Team's criminal investigation is continuing. It is up to the Public Prosecutor to decide whether and when individuals are considered suspects and subpoenas. I'll come, if you don't mind, to the questions that have been asked to me. An important question that has been asked by a number of you, first by Mr Sjoerdsma, but also by the Animal Party, Mrs Karabulut, Mr Krol and Mr Voordewind, is: where do they strengthen and weaken each other? The criminal procedure and also that state liability procedure are both for truth finding and justice. The parallel use of these two procedures can increase the effectiveness of the interventions. Results in one procedure can of course also be used in the other procedure. For example, these parallel procedures will strengthen each other rather than hinder each other. When publishing information in the context of one procedure, the effects on the other procedure must of course be taken into account. Consultations shall take place between the parties concerned. Then there was Mr Ten Broeke's question as to why the Russian complaint that he was not asked to cooperate is unfounded. There was also a more detailed question from 50PLUS about what material it would be about in the non-cooperation of Russia. Well, on 24 May, the Joint Investigation Team shared the conclusion that it has legal and convincing evidence that the launcher, the Buk-TELAR, with which flight MH17 was brought down from the 53rd anti-aircraft massile brigade of the Russian army came. The final decision is, of course, up to the judge. The JIT has also indicated that the Russian Federation has never shared that information, although all relevant information has been requested. I would like to stress once again that a number of your Members have already mentioned this in their contribution, and that is a good thing that the obligation to provide information exists from the Russian Federation. It exists on the basis of legal aid treaties, but it also exists on the basis of today's resolution 2166. I am not going into the detailed points at the moment. Of course, as you can understand, this has to do with the fact that the criminal investigation is still ongoing and we should not anticipate things there. Mr De Roon asked what steps the government is going to take to ensure that other countries support a conviction by default. If there is a default judgment, the Netherlands will signal the convicted international. If the convicted person is then found anywhere in the world, the Netherlands will ask for his extradition. If this extradition is not allowed, the Netherlands will enter into talks with the country concerned to take over the execution of the sentence on the basis of existing or still to be concluded treaties. At least that has already been agreed with Ukraine. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions that lie ahead of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u115	Yes. Mr Sjoerdsma has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u116	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It's about how we deal with suspects. Next week we will be discussing the treaty that the Netherlands has signed with Ukraine in case suspects are found with Ukrainian nationality. I have called for this in previous debates, and I have asked for it to be concluded with Russia, because it was not possible to exclude it, and I think that it can be said with greater certainty that this cannot be ruled out that suspects of Russian nationality will be found. My question to this minister is why it was not chosen to conclude such a treaty with Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mr President, through you against Mr Sjoerdsma. I really would like to address this issue in the debate next Tuesday. Your Chamber has specifically requested that those two matters be kept separate. I understand the question very well, but it seems to me that we need to discuss it in the light of the legislation before us. That is also what your Chamber has requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u118	I do not fully understand that request, because next week we are going to talk specifically about the treaty that we have concluded with Ukraine. It's good to separate that from what we were here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u119	It's on the draft schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u120	Mr President, this is about a treaty with Ukraine. It is not a treaty with Russia, and that is my question now, as a result of last Thursday. We must also note that Thursday has really been a different time. Why didn't that treaty come? At that time, as I recall, Minister Blok, in his capacity as Minister of VenJ, said that no request had been made for this. But I would like to know now whether it is not now time, whether it is a request or not, to conclude such a treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u121	I may be able to say something about it in the second term, but this debate is about state liability. Your Chamber has requested that this matter be taken to next week. Mr Sjoerdsma is absolutely right, so I would also like to note that question from him, that we should therefore talk about this: why such a treaty with Ukraine and not with the Russian Federation for the time being? However, I would find it most appropriate, even for ourselves in the context of this debate, to discuss this next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u122	A little more about the state's liability, but from Ukraine. The Minister heard how I tried to get his Foreign Affairs colleague to initiate that process into Ukraine's state-appointment. He doesn't want that, he says, that's got to come from the JIT, the evidence for that. Now I have two questions for this Minister of Justice and Security. The first question is: is the search for evidence of Ukraine's state liability within the remit and powers of the JIT? Can they do that? That is the first question. The second question is: if they are allowed to do so, is it the case that Ukraine, which is part of the JIT, is going to take part in deciding whether or not we are looking for proof of Ukraine's state liability? Isn't that the situation of the butcher who's going to judge his own meat? If, according to the Minister, that is the case, how does he intend to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u123	The Joint Investigation Team has already said it is an international research team consisting of representatives of the public prosecutors of the countries concerned. It conducts investigations in the context of possible criminal prosecution. That finding that the Joint Investigation Team has so far done and will perhaps continue to do so at some point is, of course, a good thing in itself, because they provide very convincing evidence for a certain fact, which can also be used in a liability procedure. But we can't reverse that. Basically, the Joint Investigation Team focuses on criminal investigation and finding those who should be held responsible for bringing down the MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u124	I understand from this that the JIT is not or may not have the task of looking for elements that can contribute to Ukraine's state liability. It may happen to come up in the investigation, but it's not necessarily his job. It's not their priority task. If that is the case, if that conclusion of mine is correct, then the whole story of the Foreign Minister is at stake, namely: we are waiting for the JIT to come up with evidence? Because the evidence may never come through the JlT. Then it would be logical for our government to say: we are going to look for evidence in a different way, for example by continuing to talk with Ukraine to see whether or not they are state-owned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u125	First of all. I indicated in my introduction that the analysis to achieve state liability is based on various sources of information, the information of which the JIT, as it has now been made public, is certainly a very important but not the only one. That's point one. Two. It is, of course, still true that this research team is there and, precisely because of its jointness, it has far-reaching possibilities to conduct fact-finding and to identify and establish cases. I also think that last week's presentation, which you will also have seen, is a very clear and good example of this. On that road the JIT will continue. In addition, I have said that we can indeed make further observations in the area of civil liability, not so much criminal liability as civil liability. But I have just clearly defined the tasks of the JIT in my first answer to you. There is certainly no mention of any butcher who approves his own meat, because, as you know, a large number of countries are represented in that JIT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u126	I'd like to understand. That's why I'm gonna try to tell you how I look at it. I'd like to know if it's right, because then I'll know I got it. The Minister writes that a trade-off has been made and that the two processes, criminal law and public law, can reinforce each other. Our question was, in fact, that could mean that if one case is declared inadmissible, for example, that could undermine the other case. That may also be why some countries are or are not participating. I do not want to go into that further either, because that is their own consideration, but I do have a question that arises from that. That question concerns, for example, the legal liability of Ukraine. Is it the case that the evidence relating to the closure or non-closure of airspace is more or less as harsh as it is regarding the state-law liability of Ukraine as proof of the fact that the BUK plant came from Russia? In other words, is it the government's choice to hold countries liable or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u127	Mr President, will you forgive me if I just go through that point of the JIT last week with you? The JIT, the Joint Investigation Team, has come to the conclusion that the BUK installation with which flight MH17 was shot came from the 53rd brigade of the Russian army. That investigation took place with great care and independence, as I said in the introduction. I call on all those who have not yet done so, but also those who have already done so, to review the film of the press conference and what evidence has been shown there. I have to say, that's impressive. The Joint Investigation Team conducts criminal investigations under the direction of the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office aimed at establishing individual criminal liability. This means that the investigation is aimed at generating evidence that meets the highest standards of evidence. At least that is what I can say about this at the moment. Whether and to what extent there is even more, let me just say hard evidence on other points, is up to the Joint Investigation Team. The Joint Investigation Team hasn't talked about that at the moment. We have to respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u128	Okay. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u129	Madam President, I would like to say the following. The word "patience" is now coming. The next of kin have, I think, shown incredibly much patience. We must therefore be able to do so. As you can see, it does pay off here. So I'll make that call through you, too. It's just important that we get there step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u130	One final comment, Mrs Karabulut, because I really want to go to the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u131	Yes, certainly, Mr. Chairman, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u132	Mr Van Raan has something to say first. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u133	I just want to say that we share the patience and that we also have it when it comes to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u134	I always give room for these kind of remarks. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u135	Just to be able to establish both that patience and the facts quite clearly. Can the Minister state clearly whether or not there is currently an investigation into Ukraine about the non-closure of airspace?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u136	There's a criminal investigation going on right now. That's targeting the unsubs who shot down MH17. Keeping airspace open is not covered by criminal investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u137	And there is no other way of investigating it at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u138	At the moment, the criminal investigation is aimed at those responsible for bringing down the MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u139	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u140	Mr. Chairman. The Minister said in the Security Council: no country has the right to remain silent. I'll repeat that to him. It is actually the best translation of the UN Security Council Resolution 2166. I would add that only suspects have a right to remain silent. As long as Russia does not see itself as such, the Russian Federation is doing well to take its own signature seriously and also the resolution to which it has given its support. It must therefore cooperate fully in this investigation. State liability is the right step. Russia is a proud nation with an impressive history and a personal view of its role in it, Russkiy Mir. Russia is also a wounded nation, rightly or unjustly, and wants to be part of the world community. In this world justice must prevail over lawlessness, truth over lie, conspiracy over fog. If the prosecution provides legal and convincing evidence, this is a proper step. Mr. Chairman. It is also a good thing that we support the step taken by the government as a whole. But international support is also required. It is good as a signal to the next of kin, abroad, to Russia, but also as a signal that the Chamber agrees with each other and with the government. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas taking down flight MH17 has struck an open wound in our society;]] [[Whereas the criminal investigation of the perpetrators takes a long time and requires the utmost patience of the survivors;]] [[Considering that the Joint Investigation Team (JIT) has nevertheless taken significant steps and has determined beyond doubt that the BUK-TELAR with which flight MH17 was taken comes from the 53rd Air Defense Brigade of the Russian Armed Forces;]] [[Considering that UN Security Council Resolution 2166 calls on all countries to cooperate fully in criminal investigations;]] [[whereas the Russian Federation has not provided sufficient cooperation;]] [[Regrets the preparation of the Russian Federation;]] [[expresses support for Australia and the Netherlands to invoke state liability from the Russian Federation for its share in the take-down of flight MH17;]] [[calls on the government to take all necessary steps to implement this liability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Krol, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Bishop, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Dam, Mr Karabulut, Mr Ploumen, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u141	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Ten Broeke said, there is no right to remain silent. I would also say that if a country does open its mouth, there is no right to lie or spread nonsense. That is why it is so important that we can see and underline this consensus in this Chamber today. The fight for justice, for the relatives of MH17, is a battle that has become wider. It has become a battle against infidelity and lawlessness. It has become a fight against the erosion of international standards. That is why, after the declaration of support by the European Union, after the declaration of support by NATO and after the statements of support by the UN Security Council, it is so incredibly important. I would like to congratulate Mr Baudet on his support, which means that we can support what the cabinet is doing here today: to state-appointed Russia, together with Australia. Mr. Chairman. I have one remaining question, and that is the question I asked Minister Grapperhaus in the first term. Why does the Netherlands or the JIT countries not want to come up with a treaty to allow criminal prosecution for suspects of Russian nationality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u142	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the rulers for answering the questions. I too, on behalf of my group, have signed with great conviction the motion that Mr Ten Broeke has just tabled. I too would very much like to underline the importance of a united Chamber. That's not very common, let's just say that. It shows the importance that we all attach to this case and to the ultimate objective of bringing the guilty to justice. Important steps have been taken, last week, to bring the guilty to justice, but we are far from there. Many have said so. The international community's united action is very important in this respect. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken a number of important steps over the last week and has taken initiatives to ensure this consensus. It is good that there seems to be such a consensus. My only question remains as to how we proceed with this question of joining other countries, possibly with regard to state liability. The Minister has made it very clear that, of course, everyone is free to join. My question is whether the Netherlands is going to make an active effort to increase the number of countries joining the Netherlands and Australia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u144	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u145	Mr. Chairman. The investigation into Russian involvement in bringing down the MH17 is well on track, making progress, and I hope that it can be completed with speed, with a good outcome. When it comes to Ukraine's involvement, I think it's only a lame story from box K so far. Mrs Karabulut has just asked the Minister for Security and Justice if there is another investigation than the JIT investigation into possible state liability of Ukraine. In fact, the Minister for Security and Justice did not reply to that. He just repeated that JIT doesn't focus on that. I repeat my question whether there is in any way another investigation by the government to find out whether Ukraine can also be made public. If that is not the case and if the government does not want to do so, then that is a bad thing, because it gives Russia a lot of ammunition to say: you see, we are being dealt with unilaterally, we have no confidence in it, away with that investigation from the Netherlands. I think we could gain ground by looking properly at making Ukraine liable. I will not speculate on the reasons why the government may not want to tackle Ukraine. You could add a lot of fantasies to that, but I won't pronounce it. I say to the government once again: I think it would be better if you were to talk about this and address Ukraine on the basis of the point I mentioned in the interruptions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u146	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the rulers for their answers. Thanks to the JIT and the prosecution for the excellent investigation. With the accountability of Russia, in which the precise involvement of Russia in bringing down the MH17 will be investigated, I hope that another step has been taken towards truth finding and justice. I think that is extremely important for everyone, primarily for the relatives and victims, but I think that is extremely important for all of us, as a country. Mr. Chairman. The answer failed at one point. That is indeed Ukraine's involvement. When we talk about 'truth finding' and 'justice', it is also extremely important that the investigation into Ukraine takes place. Now I understand the order, but it has become clear to me from the answer given by the rulers that no investigation is being carried out at least at the moment and that this is necessary in order to assess whether Ukraine can, and must, be made public. Then the question remains: when and in what way does the cabinet intend to carry out this investigation into the fact that Ukraine had not closed the airspace? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u148	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u149	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that there has been sufficient talk of Russia's state liability. I welcome the broad support in the Chamber. I hope that the three parties who have not yet put their names under the motion will see room for that before next Tuesday. It is more difficult as far as Ukraine is concerned. I hear the Foreign Minister say here that the State is in the lead, and we must look at it with a certain distance and not interfere too much. And I hear the Minister of Justice and Security say that no investigation is being conducted by the JIT into that airspace situation. This gives the impression that the outcome, perhaps the desire not to hold Ukraine liable, is leading to this discussion, whereas the strength of the Russian line is that it has come to that conclusion from the facts. And the only way to get those facts on the table is by investigating them. I will not raise this with any further motions or anything else today, but I think I will use the offer to come back to that debate next week. I would prefer to receive another letter from the cabinet before next week, which is actually my question to clarify this. I do not want to make any research unclear in any way, but I certainly think it is appropriate that there should be a form of fact-finding on the issue of Ukraine's airspace, because I also hope that a judgment will be reached in that discussion on the basis of facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u150	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the rulers for their reply, which is a further explanation. This also clearly reflects the government's commitment to getting that bottom line. That is why the Group of the European People's Party has the full support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely because it is so important for the next of kin to go to extremes that I would encourage the rulers to check whether the two JIT partners are still able to move Belgium and Malaysia to join the state liability charge. Do the Ministers still see the possibility of doing so? I understand from the Foreign Minister that he says that it is still open to these countries to join us. Is the Foreign Minister prepared to do this again? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u152	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Mrs Ploumen, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u153	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the ministers for their answers and reiterate my group's support for the approach of the cabinet. I, too, have signed the motion with complete conviction and I welcome the consensus in this Chamber. I hope that the next of kin will also be assured that we will continue to work from the Chamber to ensure that justice is done. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u154	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u155	Thank you, Madam President. I have a problem with the motion tabled by Mr Ten Broeke because I believe that the wording 'defining irreconcilably' in his motion is both constitutional and factually wrong. That is something that we in the Chamber cannot and must not accept. So I modified the motion a little bit. I'd like to submit it. I hope I can obtain the support of the Chamber with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas taking down flight MH17 has struck an open wound in our society;]] [[Whereas the criminal investigation of the perpetrators takes a long time and requires the utmost patience of the survivors;]] [[Considering that the Joint Investigation Team (JIT) has nevertheless taken significant steps and that there is serious and well-founded reason to believe that flight MH17 was taken down by a Buk-TELAR from the 53rd Air Defense Brigade of the Russian Armed Forces;]] [[Considering that UN Security Council Resolution 2166 calls on all countries to cooperate fully in criminal investigations;]] [[whereas the Russian Federation has not provided sufficient cooperation;]] [[Regrets the preparation of the Russian Federation;]] [[expresses support for Australia and the Netherlands to invoke the State's liability of the Russian Federation for its part in taking down flight MH17;]] [[calls on the government to take all necessary steps to implement this liability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u156	The relevant change is therefore that it is not incontrovertible, but that there is serious and justified cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u157	It would be worth a sweet thing to me if we could unite on one motion. I accept the problem that Mr Baudet raises for himself. At the same time, he must also make a choice. The finding made with "incontrovertible" is no different than factual. Russia does not even deny that it was its property. Could we unite in a "convincing way"? That is also the wording used by the government. That is a wording which I believe also covers your wording. That is a wording that you have expressed your support for today. I hope that you will be able to join me here in that national unit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u158	Yes, but well: "indeterminately" is the point, but also the past participle "defined." So the other suggestion is: argued. That's the point. It's a plea. It is an argument that is being made. It's not a determination. It's really... I think this is a very important state-law issue. It shall be established by the court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u159	Then I'm afraid we won't come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u160	If that can be adjusted, indeed, let's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u161	Mr President, I do not think we should go to too much trouble because then we will not, I think, get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u162	Or maybe I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u163	Because it's not just an opinion. It's evidence that's been brought forward. The Dutch State then has the right to invoke that state liability. This is also very common: civil law, criminal law. That doesn't mean you have to wait for a judge before you can claim your right in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u164	Oh, but then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u165	In my eyes, you'd confuse the trias politician.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u166	No, but that's also in the motion I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u167	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u168	Supporting the liability statement is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u169	I get that, but then we don't have to pretend that JIT just comes up with an opinion, because then we're just gonna undermine trust in the JIT again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u170	It's not just an opinion, but it's not an opinion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u171	Mr. Baudet, maybe it's good to see if you can convince each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u172	It'll help if we don't get mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u173	That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u174	We now have these two motions. We still have a week to lobby and discuss this further. In the next few days, before we vote on Tuesday, we can still change them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u175	I would like to thank Mr Baudet for his time. I also think we could definitely use it. I would point out, however, that this is the debate in which you also have to confess colour in the Chamber at some point. We all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u176	I don't have to do anything. I decide what I do in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u177	No, you're fine. The same goes for all those people...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u178	Perhaps it is also an idea that the cabinet first responds to both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u179	Yeah, that would definitely be good. I've got two more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is of the utmost importance that the survivors of the MH17 receive adequate compensation;]] [[whereas the Dutch State has held the Russian Federation liable for the purpose of achieving this compensation for the survivors;]] [[Considering that, in addition to Russia's possible liability, there is also potential liability of Ukraine for possible culpable negligence by failing to complete airspace closure on 17 July 2014, although the country knew that Buk missiles had crossed the border;]] [[Considering that in the period of three months prior to 17 July 2014 no fewer than 16 aircraft had been taken down in the war zone concerned and that Ukraine had every reason to close the airspace;]] [[calls on the Government to also hold Ukraine liable for its part in this tragedy in order to obtain compensation for the survivors of the MH17 victims,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is of the utmost importance that the survivors of the MH17 receive adequate compensation;]] [[Whereas the Dutch State has held the Russian Federation liable for the purpose of obtaining such compensation for the survivors;]] [[Considering that, in addition to Russia's possible culpability, Malaysia Airlines may have acted recklessly and possibly recklessly by flying on 17 July 2014 over a war zone in eastern Ukraine where no less than sixteen aircraft had been shot down in the period prior to;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of holding the Malaysian State, as shareholder of Malaysia Airlines, liable for its share in this tragedy in order to obtain compensation for the survivors of the MH17 victims,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-121]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u180	Thank you. The last motions will be copied and distributed. We wait two, three minutes for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u181	I see the Minister can respond. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Grapperhaus will refer to Mr Ten Broeke's motion and Mr Baudet's first motion and also to specific questions put to him. I will deal with the other questions and the other motions that have been tabled. I would once again like to thank the spokesmen for their strong support for the line taken. Mr Sjoerdsma still owes me an answer to the question of whether there are any examples of Russia's previous claims of liability and its response. A liability statement is not common between two countries. There has been a proceeding initiated by Canada in connection with the crash of a Russian satellite causing damage on Canadian territory. Payment has been made by the Russian Federation, but no liability has been accepted. I have no other examples of the Russian Federation from the palette of liability between countries, except for the example Mr Sjoerdsma himself pointed out. It's still going on. That's Greenpeace's ship. Mr Van Ojik and Mr Voordewind asked me to remind Belgium and Malaysia once again of the possibility of joining. I'd be happy to. It's done, but I'd be happy to. We'll be in regular contact anyway. Mr De Roon was the first to address the question of the additional investigation aimed at Ukraine's involvement. Mr Baudet has also tabled a motion on this subject. I stand by the argument that I attach great importance to the independent action of the Public Prosecutor and that I find giving directions in the conduct of investigations very, very far-reaching. The possibility exists, but it is very far-reaching. It is already far-reaching, but against the background of the constant suspicions about intervention by the Dutch government, there is an even heavier burden. I would be happy, as Mr Van Dam asked, to explain this in writing before next week's debate on the treaty. The motion in part No. 121 by Mr Baudet, who calls on the government to hold Ukraine liable for its part in this tragedy, in order to obtain compensation for the relatives of the MH17 victims, I therefore advise against. There's a contrast. Mr Baudet says on the one hand that the evidence provided by the Public Prosecutor's Office is very thin. On the other hand, in this motion and in a subsequent motion, he calls on the government to assume liability, while in both cases I do not yet have that additional information at my disposal. So also the motion in part No. 122 which calls for the Malaysian State to be held liable, I must advise against. I advise both motions against the background of the fact, once again, that the cabinet does not exclude anything but that it is extremely important to proceed very carefully here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u183	Mr Baudet, only in response to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u184	I didn't say I found the evidence thin. I have said, and that is a very fundamental point of state law, that it is not up to us to weigh up evidence and, last but not least, to assess it. So I can say that I think it is very thorough, that I think it is serious, that I have the impression that there has been very conscientious work. Only, it is not up to us, because we are not the judiciary. It is a very fundamental point in a rule of law. I am concerned that this point does not seem to occur to the Minister. Apparently, he doesn't understand what trias politician means. It is not up to the politicians to assess whether or not evidence that the Public Prosecutor comes up with is ultimately determining something, whether or not it makes anything irrefutable. That's up to the judge. That is why, legally speaking, there is no reason to say that there is something against Russia that does not exist against Ukraine. In addition, it is precisely in this criminal case against Russia that all kinds of information comes out, as Ukraine knew about the Buk rocket that would have crossed the border, which is equally incriminating in civil liability against Ukraine, as in criminal liability against Russia. That's the point. Firstly, there is the separation of powers, so we cannot establish anything. Secondly, the criminal investigation also brings out civil-law incriminating material against Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u185	Clear. This point has been sufficiently exchanged and you have tabled a motion on it. I ask for a response from the Minister if he needs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u186	Certainly, because this was a very long speech in which Mr Baudet got caught up in the same knot as in the previous debate. He's talking about a political judgment on evidence. I have indicated that the cabinet as a representative of the legal entity State concludes that there is conclusive evidence for the involvement of the Russian Federation. The cabinet represents the legal entity of the State. You, as a chamber, have a political judgment on this. I appreciate the support that is being expressed. That is the political judgment. Next, I notice a huge contrast between this very fundamental point made by Mr Baudet, and I have heard many times that this is a very fundamental point, and the two motions that call upon the legal person State to assume liability, without any evidence from the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's a huge contrast. I can't do it any other way. I dissuade both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u187	Thank you. A very brief response, Mr Baudet, because in the end the two motions will be voted on in the Chamber. I think that this point has really been exchanged. One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u188	Not all forms of civil liability should be based on a criminal claim. That is a complete misconception. On the basis of all kinds of public information, data that are common, you can have a judge make an assessment of whether or not Malaysia Airlines has rightly made that decision. You don't need a criminal case for that at all. The Minister chooses here a way, namely to hold only Russia that liability, while it is precisely along that road that there will be incredibly difficult bumps and you will be just as well, when you are dealing with that compensation, to hold Ukraine and Malaysia liable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u189	There can be a lot, but on such an incredibly large matter as this, it is especially important that we do so very carefully. That's the choice the cabinet makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u190	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u191	And safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u192	And safety. Very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u193	Madam President. First of all, I would like to respond to Mr Sjoerdsma. I will answer his question again, but I would also like to express my willingness to discuss it in greater detail next Tuesday. The question was whether a treaty on extradition of suspects and the like with the Russian Federation is also being considered. At the moment there is no reason to do so, but if there is any reason to do so, that must come from the Joint Investigation Team in the context of the criminal investigation, then the Netherlands is quite ready to discuss this with the Russian Federation. Then the motion to part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). In my initial contribution, I started by thanking your Chamber for the broad appreciation for the truly outstanding work of the Joint Investigation Team. In the course of my first term, I thought of an interruption by Mrs Karabulut, but I am not quite sure about the evidence provided by the Joint Investigation Team at the point of the installation with which the rocket was fired and with which flight MH17 was devastated. That evidence was presented by the Joint Investigation Team last Thursday. Your Chamber considers that this has been determined in an irrefutable or convincing manner. That is clear from the motion, but also from the contributions I have heard from a large number of political groups. In this respect, I shall leave Mr Ten Broeke's motion for a resolution, which supports my own qualifications in the work and the results of the Joint Investigation Team in relation to that missile installation, to the Chamber. Then there is Mr Baudet's motion on item No. 120. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. That motion gives a different qualification to the delivery of evidence. Mr Baudet is critical, I understand from a constitutional point of view, of the motion in part No. 119, on which, as I have said, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. He says there's a qualification in that. But the motion in part No. 120 of Mr Baudet himself also has a qualification. Mr Ten Broeke says in his motion 'incontrovertiblely established' and that is perhaps 'convincingly established' after the weekend. But that's not up to me. In both cases, I say judge Chamber. Mr Baudet says in his motion that there is serious and valid reason to adopt... That is also a qualification of the work of the Joint Investigation Team. In that respect, there is no difference between those two motions. Forgive me for saying something about the law of the state. The trias politician is not at stake here. The trias politician would be at stake if the Chamber adopted a motion calling for, for example, the reversal of a judicial decision. As Mr Baudet rightly said in his first term, there is not yet a judicial decision at all. Through you, Madam President, you and 149 other Members of Parliament took note of the evidence on that missile installation last week. Mr Ten Broeke has tabled a motion in which the Chamber says that we as a Chamber qualify the delivery of evidence as a convincing finding that this is the missile installation. That is an important support for the cabinet, because the cabinet has said: this is so hard proof that we are taking responsibility. There is not a single triaspolitica point in that, so I would like to sum up. I also do not see the difference between the motion in part No. 119 and those in part No. 120 when it comes to qualifications. Through you, Mr President, I say to Mr Baudet: I still hope he can support Mr Ten Broeke's motion, because that is the motion by which the Chamber simply gives a qualification, without entering the trias politicians, of how it considers the evidence provided so far. In the recital, even the piece on the Joint Investigation Team could be omitted. But then I'm really gonna stop, Madam President. Then the Chamber could say: we believe that it has now been proven convincingly that... But I must not interfere with the text of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u194	You're making some suggestions, who knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u195	Free and for nothing. I'll leave it at that. I sincerely hope through you that the Democracy Forum will join the rest of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u196	Both Mr Baudet and Mr Ten Broeke have the time until Tuesday to come to an agreement with each other, perhaps while enjoying a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-10.u197	Next Tuesday we shall be voting on the motions tabled. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Justice and Security, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate in the public gallery or in any other way.
