ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u1	I'd like to continue with the VAO. If you want to talk nicely, do so outside the plenary room. The same goes for the boys and girls of the cabinet. You can stretch your legs now. Enjoy. The next item is the VAO AVN. We have six participants on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mrs Karabulut of the SP Group. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. Next Monday, the Foreign Minister will leave for New York with a heavy delegation to participate in the United Nations General Assembly. The Prime Minister will join us, as will the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Development Cooperation and the Minister for Health. Mr. Chairman. Today is September 21st. On 21 September 1981, the United Nations General Assembly declared 21 September International Day of Peace. In Yemen there is anything but peace. In Yemen there is a forgotten war, in which Western weapons kill children and 5 million children die of hunger. I'd like our cabinet in the AVN to work for peace in Yemen. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the United Nations Human Rights Council mandated Group of Regional and International Eminent Experts on Yemen has published a report on the war in Yemen which identifies serious violations of international law by all warring parties and makes a number of recommendations;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has played an important role in establishing this group of experts mandated by the UN Human Rights Council;]] [[Calls on the Government to work towards a resolution at the 73rd session of the United Nations General Assembly calling for the implementation of the recommendations in the report of the Group of Regional and International Eminent Experts on Yemen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26150-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u3	For those who do not know: this expert group says that violence against civilians must stop immediately, humanitarian aid must be allowed and arms supplies to warring parties must be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you. I call Mr De Roon of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. The U.S. has cut their grant to a UN Organization for Palestinians, called UNRWA, by $60 million. That leads to great misfit among all Palestinian lovers. But about the fact that the biggest three donors in the Gulf region cut their grant by $70 million, you didn't hear anyone else. In the meantime, Jordan is going around the world to raise money for UNRWA, including a margin from the UN General Assembly. That organisation UNRWA was established to support persons who left Israel in 1948. Of those 748,000 people, most of them are no longer alive. And yet UNRWA currently supports more than 5 million people. How is that possible? The answer is that the descendants of the people who left in 1948 are now all benefiting from this UN organisation UNRWA. In short, 70 years later, the world community, including the Netherlands, maintains with about 1.5 billion dollars a year that company of 5 million Palestinian beneficiaries. Nowhere else in the world you see such an absurd display, but the Palestinians enjoy an exceptional position, an inexplicable and inexplicable exception position. Mr. Chairman. Those 5 million do not sigh, as the UN wants us to believe, under their so-called refugee status. They suffer from total maladministration of their leadership, a gang of corrupt and incompetent villains who, instead of taking good care of their people, are primarily engaged in enriching themselves, engaging in terrorism and arguing with their neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u6	A question from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Wilders took it up in the previous debate, rightly as far as I am concerned, for people who are not so broad here in the Netherlands. Now I hear Mr De Roon say that the Palestinians, who have often been denied all rights, would be privileged. Mr President, you are going to say: what is your question? But I'm just gonna give Mr. De Roon something. Take a look at these camps and ask yourself whether it is not worth standing up for those children, because there is no way of favouring them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr President, you know, I actually had a very different word in mind when I wrote that sentence. But I thought, listening to the Chamber, let me be a little less harsh and let me be a little more positive. So I thought, "favourable," that sounds positive. Anyway, Mrs. Ploumen doesn't like it anyway. I'll go into her mind in a moment, if you'll allow me. Those five million would be a lot better if they shook off the yoke of that Palestinian leadership. But they do not and they do not because they are now maintained by UNRWA rather than by their own leaders. And Trump is absolutely right that he is applying a, I call it modest, discount. The Netherlands must do the same and go a step further. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, inter alia, and margin of the 73rd United Nations General Assembly, the Netherlands will be called upon to make an additional contribution to UNRWA;]] [[calls on the Government to put aside all calls to contribute more to UNRWA and to end the Dutch contribution to UNRWA as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26150-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u9	This is, of course, very easy rhetoric, but what does Mr De Roon intend to achieve for the Palestinians and the Israelis when these funds are cut? Can Mr De Roon respond, for example, to noises from the Israeli army, which are like death, that if these resources are cut, there will be a great deal of unrest and that organisations like Hamas will be strengthened? Should Mr De Roon not turn to the United States, which is constantly blowing up the peace process? This ultimately means insecurity and war for both Israelis and Palestinians. Why this incredibly antisocial story?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u10	I'll leave those qualifications on Mrs Karabulut's behalf. If she asks me who these Palestinians should turn to, I would say: they should turn to themselves, reject false leadership and rebel against it. If they had done so 70 years ago, they would now have the same good life as the Israelis. Furthermore, the Western community contributes many times more to this UNRWA organization than, for example, the rich Gulf states. As I said, the largest three participants in the rich Gulf States who contribute to UNRWA have cut their contributions by $70 million in two years. Go complain there, but not here with me or with the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u11	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u12	Both the Palestinians and the peace-loving Israelis would like nothing more than that they would no longer have to rely on these resources. For this, the illegal occupation must be stopped. That's the solution. That is why the peace negotiations must be restarted, rather than firing and feeding violence in this way. Very irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr De Roon, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u14	No, Mr. Chairman, that's not the way to do it. They must throw away that corruption, they must ensure that their leaders no longer settle in capital villas both on the West Bank and in Gaza. They have to make sure their leaders don't buy an 80 million-dollar plane. That money must all be spent on the people themselves and not on the wrong leadership. If they did, they'd be much better off, Mrs. Karabulut. I see you're listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you. Then Mr Sjoerdsma of D66. We're just the pause act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u16	I strongly disagree with Mr De Roon, but, unlike Mr Baudet, he does his parliamentary work. Mr. Chairman. We had a debate on the United Nations General Assembly and the most important of that debate is how essential the multilateral system is for the Netherlands; for our prosperity, for our security, for our trade, and how crucial the role of the United Nations is for our country and for the world. It is precisely this United Nations that is under improbable pressure, because reforms are not going well, but also because acute money is being extracted from these organisations. That's what Mr De Roon pointed out. This leads to instability, to failing reforms and ultimately to very distressing situations on the ground. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a strong multilateral system is more essential than ever for peace, security and trade;]] [[Whereas a well-functioning UN makes a crucial contribution to world stability;]] [[Considering that declining funding hampers the functioning of UN institutions and slows down the planned reforms;]] [[noting that this may lead to instability and distressing consequences;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to take a leading role in reforming UN organisations at European and international level and to mitigate their acute financial problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26150-174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u17	We are all in favour of a well-functioning UN, but do I understand that Mr Sjoerdsma says that the Netherlands may have to contribute, on top of the generous contribution we are already making, if the others do not pay their bills? Does he now create financial obligations? And if he doesn't, what does he say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u18	I say two things and I would hope that Mr Koopmans, as a former expert at the UN, agrees with me. At a time when the United States no longer plays the traditional role they have ever played, when our allies sometimes turn their backs on us even in the European Union, we must be very careful with the United Nations. If you then see that these organisations are in serious trouble, due to inadequate reforms but also because of financial gaps, then my appeal to this cabinet to take a leading role, together with European countries and countries, and for my part also to the countries that Mr De Roon calls, whether they are Gulf States or Saudi Arabia, to find a solution to those gaps. I would hope, I say personally, that other countries will be the first to take the fair, but I also say, and I think that is important: if the Netherlands has to contribute something in the end to achieve such a comprehensive solution, I am certainly not against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr Koopmans, concluding, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u20	Does Mr Sjoerdsma say that the Netherlands could still have to finance unknown holes? What's he gonna pay for that from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u21	No, I'm certainly not talking about unknown holes here. I think that the problems that exist, Mr Koopmans, are also well known. It could be about the Human Rights Council, from which hundreds of millions have been drawn. It could be about UNCTAD. It could be about a UN peacekeeping mission that is suddenly failing. These are all well-known gaps, which mean that we already know that the UN system occasionally has major problems, and I will not say: it is shaky, because I think that is too pessimistic. Those are the elements I want to focus on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u22	Fine. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u23	My question is actually about the same thing. It sounds like a motion I'd like to vote for, but if you're talking about mitigation of the financial problem, if I'm right, that's a very decent way of saying that there's money in it. If you table such a motion, I assume that D66 will also ask this cabinet to make extra money available to those organisations that we know have a major problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u24	Clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u25	Okay, that's good to hear, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll leave it at that, or it'll only get less, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u26	A clear question and I think that the answer will be largely similar, because I think there are a lot of countries that are doing just a little less than the Netherlands. I believe that the Netherlands could really play a leading role in bringing these countries together, whether in a European context or in a wider international context, in order to convince them that this is not the time to leave your obligations, that this is not the time to drop things. I also think it is important that if something has to happen to convince those other countries that that solution is close, the Netherlands should not just say no. I'd like to make that distinction. This isn't a blank check to just close all the holes, but it's not like the Netherlands is just saying: "boys, do your best, take care of it," because that seems weird to me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u27	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u28	So not a blank check, but not just say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u30	Should the additional money that could possibly have to be made available by the Netherlands come within the budget at the expense of other items in that budget? If so, which one? Or should extra money be added from outside the budget as it is at present? That's what I'd be for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u31	You can't do that last one. Mr Van Ojik is not in favour of this either, because his counter-budget does not provide for any additional money for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u32	But I'm not filing a motion, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u33	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u34	Indeed, it is not in my counter-budget, so I might not have tabled this motion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr Sjoerdsma finishes his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u36	To clarify it further: that is not what I want either, because then something should have been arranged in this area in the cabinet decision-making or during these general political reflections. I am thinking here of Mr Van Ojik, who, as a former official of the Ministry, is well aware that UN contributions will never be fully and completely transferred on 1 January of the year. And if you look at the Ministry's budget, you can see that there are always unpublished budget lines, unreserved space. Should it be necessary to use that space and solve major problems together with others, I will not say no to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr Voordewind was not on the list of speakers but has just added himself. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you, Chairman, for your coulance. For the sake of clarity, there is, we already know, a deficit of hundreds of millions on the budgets of various UN organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u39	Over a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u40	Does Mr Sjoerdsma now say that we ask the government to do everything in its power to encourage the other UN Member States to contribute to the UN budget with underfunding? Or does he say: if these deficits remain, should the Netherlands also adjust? And then I ask him again: where are we going to get those hundreds of millions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u41	Now I feel like we're repeating ourselves. I said two things. Firstly, I believe that the Netherlands should play a leading role in general terms in combating these financial problems. I hope that Mr Voordewind agrees with that. That leading role, I say it again, can be as much as during the General Assembly to bring together a large group of countries, including the Gulf States and Saudi Arabia, countries that are now running away, but also the United States, and says: boys, this can't, because this is too important; you are running away from your responsibilities and problems, so we need to do something about that. If, as I have just said, it turns out that a Dutch contribution will also be needed to solve these major problems, then I am not saying no to that. Nor do I hope Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u42	Very good. We are going to listen to the following speaker: Mrs Ploumen from the Labour Party. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr. Chairman. I have a very specific request to make to the ministers. The Netherlands has committed itself to the genocide on the Rohingya that has taken place and is taking place in Myanmar. Thank you very much for that, but it is not ready as far as the PvdA is concerned. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the United Nations has carried out a fact-finding mission in Myanmar;]] [[Whereas, according to this mission, there are war crimes and crimes against humanity in Myanmar;]] [[Whereas this should not go unpunished;]] [[calls on the Government to address the report of the fact-finding mission presented at the Human Rights Council on 18 September last in the UN Security Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26150-175]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mr. Chairman. This motion does not explicitly indicate any specific timing, but calls on the government to commit itself to it with all it can from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u45	Very good. Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Helvert of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a nice debate about the United Nations. In addition, of course, we always discuss what goes terribly wrong in the world. We also paid a great deal of attention to this in that meeting. However, in that sitting I also said something which I would like to repeat in plenary. It can be said that the Secretary of State and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, together with the entire cabinet, staff and all staff, have achieved a top performance at the United Nations. In a year as a member of the UN Security Council and in a month as President, they have put something very nice in place. When you speak to colleagues from other countries, they say: what the Netherlands has put down was well prepared, was useful. And they have also achieved great successes, for example clear statements by the Security Council about banning starvation as a weapon in wars. But also in many other places, in Myanmar and so on, and so on. We talked about that. In my contribution, I said that it would be good if we were to ensure, in the last quarter, that what we are doing remains sustainable, i.e. that we also remain at the ball in the United Nations if we are no longer in that Security Council. Of course, it's not as easy as when you're actually sitting there. That is why I think the idea contained in Mr Sjoerdsma's motion is actually quite nice. He says: let us now get into some kind of leading group, and even be the leader of it, which will ensure that the necessary reform of the UN is carried out. Let us ensure that we countries that are far too little or not complying with their obligations can and dare to continue to address them, because we, the Netherlands, also financially, are making a fantastic contribution to the UN. That is both our mandatory contribution and many more, hundreds of millions, to voluntary contributions to the UN. From that position, I think it is really a task for the Netherlands to lead such a leading group and to indicate how we are going to shape those reforms, how we can appeal to other countries to that obligation and what benefit you as a country if you fulfil your obligations. I would like to hear from the ministers how they see the motion. If that is the thrust of the motion, then I think that is a very nice motion, because I really see that as a task for the Netherlands in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u47	Very good. There is another question from Mr Koopmans. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u48	I would like to join in Mr Van Helvert's supportive remarks on the government's commitment. But the question is, of course, the following. Does he agree with me that we are not now saying in any way that we are suddenly creating new financial obligations? Does he agree with me that we should not now create the image that if there is another hole, regardless of its size, we are going to fill it? Does he agree with me that we are not saying here, in any way, that there will be new possible financial obligations? And if he doesn't agree with me, can he tell me where he's going to pay for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u49	No, in the motion as I see it, but also in my own speech, it is not at any time said that there should be money anywhere. I didn't say that at any time. And we have also seen examples in the past. I remember that we had quite a discussion in the Chamber about the funds for UNRWA. Funds had suddenly been brought forward, and part of the Chamber reacted rather spicyly. They asked: hey, is that extra money, where does it come from, and so on, and so on? Then the cabinet also made it clear: no, it's not extra money; if there's any extra money for it, I always have to go to the Chamber. So what I said is, no extra money. That's how I read the motion, but I'd like to hear how the cabinet sees that motion. And why not? Because I do not want to take all the money we have within the budget directly to UN agencies. We also have other good offices and targets outside the United Nations that we want to support. Just outside the United Nations. I would like to draw attention to the expenditure we are spending, the hundreds of millions we are contributing to voluntary contributions, in addition to the compulsory contribution we are making to the UN. I think it's gonna take a lot. We can also serve as an example to those countries which do not make their contribution, which do not fulfil their obligations. From that point of view, you should have the courage to look with other countries where the gaps lie and what everyone's responsibility is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u50	Very good. Mr Koopmans, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u51	I do not understand Mr Van Helvert at all. He actually says: we must form a group, we must even take the lead there, asking other countries if they want to contribute money. We must do so without saying that we are going to contribute money. If you take that lead, it's a very difficult position. And that's not what Mr Van Helvert wants, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u52	No, I just want to avoid a misunderstanding. Mr Koopmans worked at the UN in the past. I thought he was aware that we are contributing a great deal to the United Nations. Really a lot. Absolutely and relatively we already contribute a lot. And from that position, we are quite entitled to speak in relation to other countries that do so to a much lesser extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u53	Fine, thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. The Minister can answer immediately. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Kaag will comment on the motion tabled by Mr De Roon. I will deal with the other motions tabled, first of all the Karabulut and others motion. in piece No. 172 in which the government is invited to make efforts at the 73rd session of the UN General Assembly to reach a resolution calling for the implementation of the recommendations in the report of the Group of Regional and International Eminent Experts on Yemen. The situation in Yemen is very, very worrying, both humanitarian and in view of the scale of human rights violations there. This also means that the Netherlands has long been committed to improving the situation in Yemen in many places. A humanitarian briefing is currently taking place in the UN Security Council on the situation in Yemen, including at the request of the Netherlands. This is also in line with a motion tabled earlier by the signatories to the motion. The Netherlands is also trying, as I indicated in general consultation yesterday, to obtain an extension of the mandate of that expert group mentioned in the motion. That is not a race that has been run, but incredibly important, because this group has done a good job by actually highlighting what terrible practices are taking place there. Now this motion calls for a resolution to be tabled in the UNGA on top of these actions next week. That is unwise for a number of reasons. Our main line is to achieve this important extension of the work of the expert group in the Human Rights Council. We don't have a guarantee yet. If we then start another action at the same time, it will only make it more difficult to achieve that extension. The second argument is that it is unlikely that this resolution will succeed. A rejected resolution also plays a role in subsequent debates. We will continue to press on to improve the situation in Yemen. Then it doesn't help to have a rejected resolution. So for both reasons, I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u55	I think the Minister is misinterpreting the motion. I very much appreciate the effort of the Netherlands. I also very much appreciate the fact that both ministers are implementing the wishes of a large majority of this Chamber and that the Minister is working to extend the mandate of the Commission on Human Rights. But it is a question of implementing the report of this committee which has been published. I am not asking the Minister to draw up a resolution, but to make an effort. So if the minister finds out it's out of the question and that this isn't the time, he'll come back to the Chamber with it. Since the General Assembly is a broad platform, I think that this is exactly how the other sections can be strengthened. Otherwise, the bombing will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u56	I have a feeling that Mrs Karabulut and I are very close together in terms of intent. However, I also think that I should give a fair assessment here of the impact of trying to renew the mandate in the Human Rights Council at the same time, and put Yemen on the agenda in the General Assembly along a different route. My assessment is that this is detrimental to the efforts of the Human Rights Council, where we are happy to show success. So in that assessment of effectiveness, not because I am not the target part of the proposers of the motion, I must nevertheless advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u57	You can't measure that effectiveness until you start exploring this exercise and exploring things. That's what the motion asks. Once again, the motion and the authors do not call for a resolution to be drawn up, but for the Minister to work to obtain as much support as possible for the implementation of the report's recommendations. So in other words, the Minister can also strengthen that. It could be. It could also be as the Minister says, but we only know that when the Minister starts, unless, of course, the Minister can look into a glass ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u58	But then Mrs Karabulut and the authors of the motion would ask me and my diplomats to go around the next week in order to get a resolution adopted, otherwise I would have violated the authors of the motion. This means that we have two messages on the international stage. One is to support us in the Human Rights Council in an extension. That's an option that I'm guessing most likely to be, but I don't have any guarantees. At the same time, the motion asks: go to Yemen in another forum as well. My assessment is simply that this is detrimental to the more promising option, because of course there is a call and consultation between the representatives of other countries in those two places. For the important goal that we share, ensuring that the international community achieves impact in Yemen, I find it unwise to carry out this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u59	Fine. I want to move to motion three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u60	I shall now come to Mr Sjoerdsma's motion on item No. 174. It invites the Cabinet to take a leading role at European and international level to reform UN organisations and mitigate acute financial problems. First of all, I very much agree with the concern expressed by Mr Sjoerdsma about the pressure of international cooperation and the multilateral system and its consequences, including financial ones, which has the much smaller role of the United States. The cabinet's commitment is therefore at present to continue to bet on or on strengthening and maintaining the international system and reducing financial problems. In this sense, the motion is also an encouragement to cabinet policy. But this mitigation, as the motion calls it, does not mean that the Netherlands can or must always close the financial gaps itself. I also heard the interrupting debates on this subject. We are bound by budgetary agreements and the Netherlands is also a very large donor of the United Nations. Mr Van Helvert pointed out that too. It would not be logical for both domestic financial reasons and also because we also want to have a fair distribution of the burden internationally that the Netherlands will do so to a large extent. The call to address these problems internationally and to ask for a greater international contribution is being made. At the Foreign Affairs Council last September, Mr Kaag also called on the other EU Member States to contribute more to the reforms of the United Nations. When it comes to substantive reforms, the Netherlands, also through the Prime Minister, has taken a leading role in the reform of peacekeeping operations, and we will continue to do so in the coming week. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that the essence is that, as Mr Kaag has done, we are calling on other countries to increase the contribution that needs to be increased in a number of areas, then... Of course, we must always take a critical look at the scope of our budget. The Chamber will be informed about this and we can also debate it. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that we do not automatically increase ourselves, then I can leave it to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr Koopmans, it is Mr Sjoerdsma's motion and Mr Sjoerdsma nods yes. That is important, because that makes the motion, I understand, judgment Chamber. I suggest you proceed with motion four.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u62	Then I come to Mrs Ploumen's motion with Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Karabulut on item No. 175. It invites the Government to address the report of the fact-finding mission presented at the Human Rights Council on 18 September in the UN Security Council. Indeed, the Cabinet considers it very important that this report, which also contains very shocking findings, should be followed up. We are discussing with other countries within Europe and beyond how to do so as best we can and whether we can allow the UN Security Council to play a role in this. Mrs Ploumen knows that a number of Members are inclined to veto Myanmar. So here too: if I may interpret the motion in such a way that we in the United Nations Security Council set it up where it is effective, but in any case in various places to look for a real follow-up to the findings of the investigation, then I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mrs Ploumen, it's your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thanks to the Minister. I agree with his explanation of the motion. I would ask him to keep the Chamber of Hopeful Progress informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u65	If she's hired.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u66	If she's hired.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u67	Detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u68	If that's the case, then that's how we'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u69	And then it's up to the Chamber to make a final decision. Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to review the motion on item No. 173 by Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u70	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. It's tight here, despite the fact that it's empty. At first, part of the text in Mr De Roon's motion is premature. A discussion will be organised by the UN Secretary-General on the basis of a report which, I believe, came out in April 2017. It contains a number of reform proposals on the financing of UNRWA, to put the organisation on a more sustainable, sustainable footing in the context of the important humanitarian work being carried out. Host country Jordan is the country that invites to have a conversation with a number of European countries and others. I don't know the invitation list. I am here on behalf of the cabinet. In principle, we do not intend to announce any financial contributions, because there is no decision at all. As it fits this cabinet and previous Cabinets, an overall assessment of humanitarian needs and priorities will be made later in the year. This will examine the situations and organisations that may still benefit from additional funding. It is, of course, the case that the UNRWA cabinet considers it an important humanitarian organisation, with early reception in the region. We attach importance to non-politicising the work of any humanitarian organisation. In that context, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u71	That seems clear to me. So much for this debate. Thank you to both rulers. But, yeah, they were supposed to be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-21-tweedekamer-7.u72	This evening we will vote on the four motions. I'll suspend for a few moments, a few minutes. Then we go back to the rest of the General Reviews. Thank you.
