ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on gas extraction in Groningen. I would once again like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u2	"Relentless." For example, Jan de Jong, former inspector general of SodM supervisor, calls ignoring his 2013 advice to reduce gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres per year: ruthless. At first the gas extraction even went up, to almost record height. Only after the Groningers themselves went to the judge, in front of me, did the gas tap really close, but never enough. Ruthless. The previous cabinet was always aware of this. I quote Minister Kamp, who writes to the Chamber on 19 January 2015: "During the Chamber debate on 5 February 2014 on gas extraction in Groningen, I indicated that in 2013 I was constantly aware of developments in gas extraction from the Groningen field. I also said that the planned production for 2013 was at a level of 49 billion cubic metres per year." Always up to speed. And in February 2014, Minister Kamp says about the non-intervention after SodM's advice: "I decided not to do so and wait for a decision to be taken." The Rutte II cabinet therefore deliberately chose not to intervene, even though it was aware of the high level of gas production. The Prime Minister is now claiming that he is not. Claims in the press, because again he is not present in the Chamber. Again, ruthless. I'd like a response from the Minister. Last week, SodM repeated its advice from 2012: gas extraction should return to 12 billion cubic metres per year as soon as possible. We've lost five years. Five years, playing with the safety of the Groningen. I'd like a response from the Minister. Even in the last parliamentary debate, the coalition voted a motion to go back to 12 billion cubic metres away. It is good that the Minister now indicates that after five years of fighting we are going back to 12 billion cubs, but in his letter the Minister also writes that he will only come forward with the first proposals at the end of March and only months later, in May or June, will decide, or after the cold of winter. Inevitably, because the NOS Journal showed yesterday that reducing gas extraction has been possible for years. The cabinet said time and time again: we have to get so much gas from Groningen, because security of supply. Turns out we could have done with less gas by now. In the last year and a half there was more exports to France than they needed there. 700 million cubic metres of our gas has even been converted to high-caloric gas. What do you mean, foreign elderly people in the cold? In addition, several large consumers in the Netherlands indicate that they want to get rid of the gas and can, including Eneco, which now consumes half a billion cubic tons per year in one plant. It's weird. So the story about the security of supply is wrong. I'd like a response from the Minister. By the way, the highest court in the country ruled this in November. The mining licences have been destroyed, partly because it has not been demonstrated that the claim on security of supply is correct. Apologies from the Minister? Code red shall remain in force for at least one year. We've lost five years. Now do not wait until March, May, June or September, but now reduce gas extraction. Now no more ruthless hanging out with us. I'd like a response. It is time for action, but as far as we are concerned it is also time for a parliamentary inquiry. More and more it becomes clear how ruthless Groningen has been treated. Money kept going over people. But there is still a lot of uncertainty. Groninger hero Sijbrand Nijhoff revealed last week the secret gas deal from 1963, which shows that the role of the State was even greater than expected. I would like a response from the Chamber and the Minister to the idea of organising a parliamentary survey on this Dutch government failure of non-Dutch proportions. The new protocol to determine and deal with damage is a good step in the right direction. A step that was fought hard in Groningen. No more NAM interference in any new damage. An independent committee. No contours. Nice steps, but now we need to follow up. I'd like to know from the Minister why the arbitrator is dropping in the old cases. There is a great deal of confidence in the arbitrator. In the new protocol, the losers do not have the opportunity to choose an independent counter-expert themselves. Why not? Why is the protocol only valid in a restricted area? Can it be proven and can this protocol also apply to people living above other gas fields in the Netherlands? Extremely important for the SP is that the old damages are now quickly and properly solved. Last Monday I visited the Kraak-Kadijk family. Their beautiful farmhouse, a national monument, is completely destroyed. For a year and a half they live in a container with their two little sons. The only thing that's still wall-to-wall is the damage handling. There are many households, farmers and businesses that are not now covered by the protocol and still have to fight with the NAM. Files outside the former contours used by the NAM. Files with the arbitrator. Files with the judge. Damages partially recognised and partly not recognised. Houses in the shacks. Another 2,000 cases where the NAM unilaterally closed the file. Current damage at the Safe Living Centre. Estimates vary: between 8,000 and 15,000 damages. I'd like some clarity from the Secretary of State. These people have often waited a long time. Some people are desperate. 10,000 people are literally sick. Sicked up. This is often partly because they are not compensated for any damage. These people, too, deserve to be dealt with quickly and properly. NAM and Centrum Safe Living have made a mess of damage handling. Why don't we give these damaged people some certainty with old damages? The damage must be compensated before 1 July and there is an additional 50 million for it. Does this apply to all the categories mentioned? Is 50 million enough? If not, are there any agreements yet on what it may cost more? Why not give all these people the opportunity to switch to the new protocol? Is it possible to include farmers and farms in the protocol? This is where the damage is enormous: houses are broken, companies are broken, less turnover, no future. In some villages in Groningen, 60% to 80% of the buildings must be demolished, reported the Dagblad van het Noorden today. On Monday, activists stopped the demolition of a more than 100-year-old characteristic building in the Sand. People are afraid that the soul of our Groningen will disappear, that our beautiful Groninger villages will turn into one great Vinex location. The reinforcements aren't going anywhere. In Opwierde-Zuid, the residents abandoned confidence in the reinforcement operation. In the homes that are already finished, the façade plates fall off the walls. The back door is so narrow, it doesn't fit a stretcher. People are played against each other. The future is completely uncertain. I've been in a lot of places over the past few weeks where I need to be reinforced and demolished. People have enormous concerns about their future and the future of their village. Many people feel trapped and have no control over their future. Will the Minister promise that the NAM will no longer play any role in the reinforcement, that villages themselves will be allowed to deal with their future and that they will be given control? And will the Minister promise that the fine that people will get now if they sell their house within five years of a reinforcement will be dropped? The NAM and Shell now speak fine words about that they will pay for all the damage, but actions are not going to happen. On the same day Shell told Jinek that Groningers shouldn't worry, the NAM appealed Hiltje and Leny Zwarberg. They haven't been home for Christmas for three years because their house is too unsafe. They won in court, but the NAM appealed last week. What do you mean, don't worry? Can the Minister ensure that there is a statement on paper in two weeks in which the NAM and Shell assume their responsibility? Locking up, Mr. Chairman. 10,000 Groningers are sick of gas extraction, sickened, partly by a failing government. Nice steps are being taken now, but that is not enough. We're at a tipping point. It takes more than promises now. We want action. Give back Groningen's past and future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren. She speaks for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. Where do I start? Do I start with the minister and his brave start to tackle the government failure of non-Dutch proportions, or with SodM, who, after his courageous and justified advice from 2013, has now found his spine again, or at the beautiful image-defining building in 't Zandt that the NAM wants against the plain? Or do I start with the Shell Guarantees? Rutte said it: you get guarantees on vacuum cleaners and it's a guarantee up to the door. At least Exxon was honest. That's just what we said: we're only in it for the money. Or do I start with the dull misery for the Groningen people, for example with the story of the 78-year-old lady? That lady was always economical and had found a buyer for her apartment so she could go to an age-resistant cottage. Everything was round, but then the house was damaged by the great quake at Zeerrijp. The buyer cut off, and now the 78-year-old lady has two houses and double mortgage charges. Our minister said he's going to stand between the Groningers and the NAM. How's he gonna do that for this 78-year-old lady? My group has many questions that will probably only eventually be answered by a parliamentary committee of inquiry into mining in Groningen. Then the gas extraction level. Is it true that, shortly before the heavy blows at Zeerijp, extra gas was extracted from that cluster? The figures on NLOG seem to indicate that. SodM writes in November 2016 that seismic activity in Loppersum began to rise. The heavy earthquake at Zeerijp was therefore not unexpected. If so, why didn't SodM warn you sooner and harder? The gas extraction level should be down as soon as possible as realistic, as GroenLinks said in 2013. There's a pile of motions on this. The first motions were only supported by the Party for Animals. Slowly, moving from left to right, they got more support. The Minister now has this support. When's the gas extraction going down? As far as security of supply is concerned, the Chamber never got the whole story. It has always been said: there is no other way, otherwise people will be in hospitals and with the children at home in the cold. Now it turns out that I am pleased that it can be 0.5 to 2 billion cubic metres lower. As Mrs Beckerman said, we are doing well in the case of high-caloric gas in Belgium and France. We've never been told this as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u5	I have one question for Mrs Van Tongeren. She says that GroenLinks has a number of questions that are likely to be answered only by a parliamentary survey. In 2016, I tabled a motion with Mrs Dik-Faber. It was not supported by GroenLinks at the time. I tabled another motion three weeks ago, on January 16th. That's when I pulled it over. I intend to put it to the vote soon. Can GroenLinks support the motion this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u6	I have already said in the corridors that this parliamentary committee of inquiry must be set up, but I would very much like this Minister to speed up his work with the emphasis on Shell and Exxon, the one-stop shop and the solution of the problem, and not all attention now goes to this parliamentary committee of inquiry. A motion to ask the presidency to prepare it will therefore have a positive opinion from me and our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u7	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u8	On weekends, at least for me, it has become clear that in the four countries using Groningen gas, there is more storage capacity and more nitrogen production capacity to use than we have ever heard. Just across the border at Ommen, for example, there is a storage and nitrogen production facility, which can make half a billion cubic metres. We never had that in the calculations and that was never used to try to balance on all cold days. Is the Minister prepared to make these export contracts public? Is the Minister prepared to have an independent research institute, other than GTS, identify the possibilities? To help the Groningers and the minister, I have here a report from the research firm Ecofys, which shows that you can easily use 1.5 billion cubic tons less gas in the entire built environment. I would like to receive an appreciation from the Minister and, of course, the implementation of it. Then the partnership. The letter we received yesterday from the Minister shows that the gas is in the ground of the NAM. That is what the Minister writes, but why is it not in the annual report of the NAM, which we have received? As far as I can tell, this has never been on balance with Shell or Exxon either. It's on the national balance sheet, though. AkzoNobel's stock and Philips' stock aren't on the national balance sheet. Then why the NAM's? What the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance does not understand is that the value of gas in the state balance sheet decreased from 124 billion to 41 billion between 2014 and 2017. How is that possible? Greetings for the temporary damage protocol. The Minister has done a terrible job with the region. He wants to stand between the Groningers with damage and the NAM. How is this minister going to do that for the 2,000 files outside the contour used by the NAM? How about the files that are in the arbiter's office? How about the 15 cases before the judge? How about the 6,000 cases of damage that are partly recognised but where there is disagreement? How does the minister stand between the NAM and the residents of the 125 houses in shacks and the rejected cases with so-called C-damage? Is the Minister also going to stand between the residents of Drenthe, Friesland and Overijssel, for example, the people who suffer from the gas extraction in the Roswinkel field and the NAM? And what about the damage in the Groninger Field? There are concessions around it that are separated from the Groningen concession but that are more or less connected to this field. Are they part of this or not? Does the minister have enough people on that committee? Another 5,500 reports have been added. When were these cases assessed? What about the reversal of the burden of proof? Can the Minister say out loud that there is a reversal of the burden of proof and that we are talking about mining damage? A lot of sad things are not in there yet, but I assume that the minister is standing between the residents and the NAM. These include loss of value, psychological distress, barns, dungeons, dikes, pipelines, water damage, meadows, settlement damage and groundwater levels. These are all damages that have not yet been dealt with in the protocol. As for psychological damage, how's the CVW? Is that gonna keep making a profit? What about the contract with the National Coordinator and the NAM? Isn't that how the NAM gets back in? What will be the role of Hans Alders and his organization? And does the NAM still keep the final direction and the decisions in structural strengthening and also in new construction? How's that? How's the minister gonna be between the residents and the NAM? Is the scheme still going to be demolished if the cost of recovery is at a certain level? What about this crazy so-called "value jump" scheme? A resident hasn't asked for anything, his house needs to be strengthened and if you can sell it in Groningen within five years, you can go back to paying money to the NAM. The injury methodology used will undoubtedly not be the same as the one used by the NAM. I would like a confirmation from the Minister that we really do not do that method.......................................................................................................................................................... Will the new mining institute be given a supervisory board in which Groningers, the province of Groningen and the municipalities will also play a solid role? Is it gonna be a Zbo? What form does the Minister intend to take? In short, Mr President, the lawyers who are going to deal with these matters in Groningen have not all been born yet. And before the Groningers can focus on a beautiful and prosperous future as all Dutch people would like, they will still get a lot of ups and downs of this damage protocol. But I assume, and I hope, and I appeal to this minister, Mr Spencer, that he really is between the inhabitants, and Shell and Exxon, the third and fourth largest company in the world, to ensure that these people, like all the other Dutch, can have a safe and prosperous life. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mrs Van Tongeren. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. The Groningen people's trust is completely gone. The confidence in the NAM, Shell and Exxon was already gone. It's actually gone in the minister and in politics as a whole. This has happened in recent years and that is quite understandable, because their fundamental rights have been violated: having a safe home and a safe home and being able to decorate your life without any worries as you like, in the neighbourhood, the village or the neighborhood where you want. They are not guaranteed by politics, not by the NAM and not by the government. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has done quite a bit in the first few months he was Minister. Gas extraction will go down sharply, there's a damage protocol, I think it's an annoying term, there's been a scheme designed to compensate for all the damage there is and the Minister will also take other steps, but this is just the beginning and actually less than the beginning of regaining trust. I have questions in this debate on five matters. First of all, the damage protocol. The second is the socio-economic and socio-emotional damage. The third is, of course, the gas extraction level. The fourth is funding. The fifth is the depreciation scheme and the judgments of the court. First of all, the damage protocol. Mrs Van Tongeren has already asked a number of questions about this very quickly. I had all those, too, but I've got more. In fact, the one big question that the whole Chamber has is why there is a difference between 31 March last year and before. Thousands of people have suffered damage and they still have to fight it out with the Centre Safe Living or, if they had previously suffered damage, with the NAM. It's often a lot of piled up damage and misery. It takes a long time and it's thousands of cases. I would just like to point out that this also applies to thousands of people who are not yet in those statistics, but who have not yet reported it or dared to report it. Why didn't they offer the same possibilities? That's a really big question. The second big question I have is why distinction is made between small fields and the Groninger Field. The contours are off the table and that's good, but are we going to get the difference between a Drentse and a Groningen crack? You can't explain that, can you? Why the gas storage at Norg did and the one at Graipskerk didn't? I can't explain it. Why hasn't that been levelled for everyone so that people in Emmen with damage or in Assen with damage are treated the same as everyone else? Then there's the arbiter and the access. The attitude of the NAM does not reassure the PvdA at all. That is why we are asking so urgently. Mrs Beckerman mentioned the day on which the appeal against Hiltje and Leny Zwarberg was brought. I also heard this week that a case from Scheemda lies with the arbitrator, simply sued outside the contours, and that the NAM refuses to declare it admissible. That's outrageous. Well, you just agreed, after what I don't know. We've had to wait months for that protocol. Now you've agreed to that and now we're done with these contours, but there's still something left with the arbitrators, one of the few agencies the Groningers still have some confidence in, and then it's said: you're not admissible. What's gonna happen to that verdict later? 'Cause those arbiters want to. Is the Minister going to make sure that those people get their money, at least, a lot of money, like they should be happy if they get compensation? How the hell is this gonna be handled? How is it possible that this is happening again? Mr. Chairman. I come to the second point, and that is the level of gas extraction. 12 billion is good; as soon as possible is good. There are, however, enormous concerns about the analyses underlying this. In this respect too, trust is actually gone. I myself asked for this in my first debate with this Minister. What exactly are these security of supply figures based on? Are they not too much of the gas building and are they not too much dependent on the gas building, in which everyone has his interests and where the people who do the analysis also sell, transport or otherwise? They have or have an interest in these contracts themselves. Have they been established independently enough? In yesterday's news, the NOS said that we are even selling gas to France and Germany that they are converting into another gas that is simply available internationally. Then it is mixed in the other way; and here we are talking about nitrogen factories. Can you believe that? I can see how that just makes people really pissed off. I'll do it myself. How is that possible? Can we trust that it will be the same when the Minister says, on the basis of his analyses, that it can go down with so much later in March? Because over and over again, Minister Kamp has said that more is not possible because otherwise the light goes out and the factories have to close and it is irresponsible to do so. And now it turns out it's possible, according to this minister. Now it turns out there might be more to be done. Mr President, the second question. Is that nitrogen factory being built? Because that will certainly help in the long term. Of course, it takes a few years, but is it being built? Saves 5 to 7 billion cubs. Then you can go a lot lower, even in times when it's cold. Mr President, the third. The social-emotional damage in Groningen is immense. That's what we read in reports. I think it is important that they appear - very good reports. But you'll feel it when you get there. Especially those who have damage to damage, who have repaired the damage time after time, who have fought, saved it, are compensated for damage and then again suffer a tear and misery and then have discussions, followed by denial: they are completely insane by that. People who are already a little vulnerable or sick and get this, just can't have this. If you look at the research of the University of Groningen, but also of the Children's Ombudsman about how children suffer in Groningen, there is no mention of that at all. It's not gonna go well by itself. I ask the Minister what the cabinet will do about it. Is there any additional support available? Is there any attention to that? Are people better helped and taken by hand if they are completely stuck in procedures? What's gonna happen to that anyway? That is really necessary. Mr President, I will come to the point where I concluded the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u11	I fully agree with Mr Nijboer that there is also a great deal of work to be done there. In my opinion, we also discussed this briefly in the previous debate. We then asked the Minister to make the money from the coalition agreement available as soon as possible. My question to the PvdA Group would be: who should have the mandate or who should have the first role in putting that money in Groningen? Do you expect the Minister to play a major role in this? Or should this be done by the region itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u12	The region itself? Of course, it's about the people. What I've seen over the past few years is that people got all murmuring: from the locker to the wall, the CVW, not recognized. If you have a small tear, you can still handle it yourself, but if you have a big damage, someone should actually stand with you. There's something about that in the damage protocol, but we still have to see how that's gonna work. And I think there's just a lot of social work to do. You can just walk down the street in Loppersum; if you just walk there and watch, someone sometimes comes to you crying. It happens! I think we've all been there, even when the Chamber of Representatives spoke to tenants. People stand with tears... That is really not normal, that you see that when you walk on the street in the Netherlands, but there it is. It's not gonna be okay by itself, and it's not gonna go away by itself. That's what experts need to look at. I'm not an expert, I'm an MP. But something must be done about it. Mr. Chairman. I come to the difference between strengthening and compensating for damage. The question of compensation has now been dealt with by this protocol. We still have a lot of questions about that. I don't want to say it's taken care of. It won't be settled until it's settled. But there must be an immense delta program for Groningen. It is said that 60% to 80% of the villages will disappear. I hope that is not necessary and that the Minister acknowledges that this is not necessary. There will be a need to strengthen when such major interventions are carried out. Monuments will have to be spared. Well, at least we had a hit at Christmas. We've had the sand this week. You see what one building already means to someone who lives there. I know that a lot, too. You see the environment where you grew up, where you've been through everything, disappear. Now it's on the front page of a newspaper that whole villages are being demolished. How's that gonna work out later? We now have a window for compensation and a huge programme to strengthen, and they have no connection at all with each other. That's impossible, isn't it? There has to be some sort of delta program with which you help everyone as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. I see I'm running out of time. I agree with the questions about the skimming of the money when the house becomes worth more.... as if people have benefits from it. I'm gonna finish with the funding. The Minister does not yet want to say what he is going to cut; that is what he has agreed in the government agreement. I got a letter about that yesterday. But that other funding is that of the NAM and Shell, which we had a hearing on. I'm not comfortable with that. The money that is separate from the NAM budget is simply much and far too little, namely 0.5 billion. I did a little digging today: 495 million. There was something about "this is the expected damage," but it is actually many billions. This is far too little. Shell gave guarantees. We want a fund that is separate and that everyone can trust, which can no longer be reached. Exxon ran away. What worries me the most is that I will end with that, Mr President, because I can see you are already looking at things again, that new financial arrangements are being made with the NAM and Exxon, while they simply have all their responsibilities. Don't let the taxpayer take the fall for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The government should be there for its citizens, not the other way around. Those citizens also include the Groningen. After years of making money from the gas in the Groningen soil, without paying attention to the inhabitants on top of that soil, last Wednesday there was between all the misery through a small moment of joy. There seems to be some progress at last. The damage protocol everyone's been staring at for the past year was finally finished. What's the result of it? The contour lines disappear, so that compensation is no longer limited to a defined area. That's a good thing. And that horrible, careless NAM, who is only trying to get out of her liability, finally comes out of the process of compensation. That's good news, too. In addition, the Minister indicated that he wanted to follow the advice of the SodM and to reduce gas extraction as quickly as possible to the safe level of 12 billion cubic metres. That's good news, too, but let's face it, it's about time after five years. There appear to be far more possibilities to reduce the extraction of gas than was initially thought. Only yesterday it became clear that France receives more gas from Groningen than is necessary. Of course, that's weird. This is, of course, unacceptable, especially at a time when we are talking about drastically reducing gas extraction. So the question to the Minister is: how about this? Exactly how much is being exported and how much is perhaps not needed at all? When does gas extraction actually go to 12 billion cubic metres? Mr. Chairman. There's got to be a real pace right now. Compensation should be paid as soon as possible. That's what's needed right now. Of course, the number of reports is large, very large. It's thousands. But while progress is being made, I'm asking if the Minister might have an indication. When does he expect or hope that all these claims will be dealt with? What picture does he have of this? Mr. Chairman. An independent Committee on Mining Damage is being set up in Groningen: a one-stop shop for all those affected. The committee shall assess the damage and determine the amount of the damages. And then this committee, in other words the State, pays the damages and then reclaims them on the NAM. Does the Minister guarantee that this way all the victims will finally get their money? I'd like a response. Damages reported to the Safe Living Centre after 31 March 2017, i.e. since the expiry of the previous protocol, will be taken over and settled by this committee. This therefore does not apply to claims notified before 31 March 2017. These will continue to be dealt with by the CVW. These victims thus follow the old procedure and eventually remain at the disposal of the NAM. That's not supposed to happen, is it? That's not fair, is it? Why not transfer all claims to the new committee to be set up? Mr. Chairman. The NAM is liable for all mining damages. The NAM just has to pay. What's all this going to cost? The estimates vary. 10 billion, does the NAM have that much in cash? No, not by a long shot. And a profit of half a billion euros, a profit that will fall if gas extraction is reduced, is not enough either. And what if the NAM can't pay anymore if the NAM goes bankrupt? Then the account is for Shell and Exxon, both for 50% shareholder of the NAM. Well, Mr President, what a coincidence or not that Shell then last year, after the court has decided that the NAM is liable for damages, has withdrawn his so-called 403 declaration, so Shell is suddenly no longer jointly and severally liable. Look, and that's typical: taking advantage for years, earning years from the Groningen, many, many billions, and then tearing your hands off and running away. That's cowardly, and that's outrageous. And then you have no sense of what the Groningers are going through. Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday, there was a hearing here in the Chamberhouse. Shell, Exxon and the NAM were present. And frankly, it was an embarrassing display. The MPs were right to get excited. In fact, the Minister should be particularly concerned about this. Mrs Van Loon, CEO of Shell, said that the Groningers should not worry. It also said that............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr President, let us not fool you, because before the account reaches Shell at all, it has already been paid, namely by the Mining Damage Committee, or the State that will advance all damages! So the question is: will the NAM & co eventually pay back? If Mrs Van Loon says that the Groningen don't have to worry about compensation, that's a promise with other people's money. How much of the damages to be paid by the Mining Commission does the Minister actually expect to be able to recover at NAM & co? Does the Minister share the view that the level of compensation after they have been fixed and paid is not negotiable? The NAM just has to pay. Will the Minister ensure that the account is transferred one-on-one to the NAM after payment? Meanwhile, the Minister takes into account a claim for damages, a billion-dollar claim from the NAM, according to a leaked internal note from the Ministry. It refers to EUR 60 to 80 billion for loss of income and for infringement of property rights. Mr. Chairman. This shows once again that the NAM has no eye for the Groningen people, but only has an eye for its own wallet and its own shareholders. It's actually a confirmation of what we already knew. Understandably and rightly, therefore, I have already said that the NAM is completely out of the process of damages handling. It is therefore understandable and right that the Minister, with the creation of the Committee on Mining Damage, has finally come to an end! It will take over its own responsibility and will ensure that compensation is paid. Mr. Chairman. So many tremors have taken place in recent years. So much damage, so much suffering and misery. It's all been way too long and far too long. Minister, transfer the money as soon as possible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Sazias, am I correct? On behalf of 50PLUS, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the Minister deserves an honest compliment because he has taken care of it and kept his word, that the protocol would be there before 1 February. And it's there. So that compliment has been granted to you! But that doesn't mean we don't have any more questions. I'm just gonna start with my most important question. That is the next one, about the notifications that will be subject to the new law as of 19 March 2017. I honestly do not understand that there has been no major opposition to the fact that all these reports have just yet to be sent to the NAM. So if the Minister says with a big gesture on television: the NAM is out of the way and it is now a matter of private law, then that is not true for all the 6,000 people. Just those people who have been in uncertainty for so long and become sick from the stress, they still have to go to the NAM. And he says that they will make an ultimate attempt to deal with all these claims before 1 July next. Well, what do you think? 6,000 reports in five months, I don't believe it, I don't think that's gonna work. Mr Kops of the PVV also asked. Why didn't you put all the damages at the same counter? I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister. Then it's about money. The NAM has reserved 500 million. Do you think that's enough? Because in doing so, the NAM also has to pay out the decline in the value of the houses once again and that is going to be a billion dollar business as well. While LTO Noord once again asks for 100 million to deal with damage to farmers. The 1963 cooperation agreement, which suddenly emerged last week, makes clear what the State's share of membership is. That's 40%. From a letter from the NAM, I note that for every euro earthquake damage, the State ultimately pays 64%, i.e. 64 cents, and the NAM only for 36%, for 36 cents. That's right, I want to know about the Minister. Because then I wonder how big the state reserve should be. And, of course, I would also like to know how the Minister is going to deal with this in budgetary terms. By the way, it says in the same agreement that it lasts until the gas field is empty. As long as that agreement is valid. That is completely against the expected reality. Does the Minister, as co-signator of the agreement, think that this is feasible? Last week's hearing, we also heard Mr. Kops about it, made it really painfully clear how much the parties oppose compensation. Shell has withdrawn her liability obligation at least at a suspicious time, but has undertaken to provide a written guarantee. But Exxon kept himself so lightly on the plain that it was really shocking. Exxon kept referring to the Shell. The company really did that in a very woody way. Of course, Exxon has also benefited from the results from Groningen. Firstly, I look forward to the Minister's reaction to that attitude. Secondly, can we expect the Minister to keep an eye on these two companies, so that there will not be any more cleverness at once, so that the burden would not be evenly distributed? The settlement of damages has now become a matter of public law, and that is quite right. But the question is whether there are too many government hands on it, because the committee members under the leadership of the RVO are appointed by the Minister for Legal Protection and in the event of a damage report the committee assigns this to independent experts, who have also been appointed by the committee. If the complainant is not satisfied with these experts, he may express it, but the committee then decides whether it is right for him to do so. The complainant cannot, therefore, employ an expert himself and thus have a counter-expertise established. The complainant has checked, because the complaints committee is also set up by the government. 50PLUS has already tabled a motion on the counter-expertise. Why is this choice so made within this damage protocol? Where is the room for the alarms and the parties involved if things are not satisfactory? I would also like a response from the Minister. With regard to social damage, I would like to join Mr Nijboer. I think the story about the jump clause is a totally crazy story. On this point, I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren's questions. It shouldn't get weirder. So the question is, what now? State surveillance of the mines has advised that we must return to 12 billion cubic metres for the safety of the Groningen. That's 14 billion cuub less than it is now. The drilling sites around Loppersum are closed, but I think very little came out of it. We tabled a motion last year on a phasing-out plan for gas. It's widely accepted by the Chamber. That motion must now be implemented at a very rapid pace. Many questions have already been asked about security of supply. You're already talking. We have now heard that Belgium wants to comply with the obligation to supply, but we saw yesterday in the NOS-Journaal and in previous reports that Belgium is already working on the cover and that many large consumers are already doing so. How far can we reduce that security of supply? We would like to make that clear. We also want to know about the nitrogen factory in Zuidbroek. You postponed that decision in December. What are your plans with that? Mr. Chairman. The question is, how do we get off the gas in an emergency? How do we get rid of code red? The Minister is doing well by writing down the large consumers and setting a deadline. This will not be a problem with the new construction, but, as with the sustainability exercise, the big problem is of course with existing construction. So you have to combine these two things: both the sustainability challenge and the reduction of gas. That is a huge task. You have that on your plate. Pff... that's not just something! But you really need to make that emergency pace right now. I wonder how you'd like to do that. I think the Minister's intention is really good, but I am glad that the National Ombudsman also keeps his finger on the pulse. The Groningers say, "Believe first." We actually have that attitude too. I await the Minister's promises and answers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about gas extraction, earthquakes and damage protocols. But the Party for Animals also wants to draw specific attention to the impact of earthquake damage on residents. These earthquake damage and the way in which the problems have long been trivialized, swept under the carpet and sometimes denied bluntly, the uncertainty and fear: all this has led to frustration, anger, powerlessness and, above all, to a deep-seated sense of insecurity in Groningen. Gas extraction also causes damage to people. Recent research by the University of Groningen shows that less than half of the 85,000 people with multiple damage feel safe. Less than half... That sense of insecurity can result in poor sleep, mental problems, depression and cardiovascular disease. The impact of earthquake damage on the mental and physical health of residents is really enormous. That's what this Groningen investigation shows. Earthquakes are unpredictable. All we know is there's new ones. Maybe in Zeerrijp, maybe in Loppersum, maybe right away in Siddeburen. There remains uncertainty and a sense of insecurity. That uncertainty, that fear, that concern about your health, about your children, about your future in the area, is there any future in the area? That uncertainty is destroying people. I would have liked to talk to the US Secretary of State about it. There was initially a debate with him in the books, but a majority of the Chamber chose to scrape all the Groningen debates together and put them on one big pile. I wanted to ask the VWS minister what he's gonna do to help people. What's he gonna do to alleviate that psychic distress? What is he going to do to help people who are in the negative spiral of complaints, worried about the damage to their homes, insomnia, drug use and physical complaints? The Minister of EZK can only solve some of the problems. Yeah, well-functioning damage protocol helps the victims. A significant reduction in gas extraction helps to reduce earthquake risk. The future-proofing of homes helps in part to alleviate the psychological distress. But it's not the whole story. More needs to be done. It is not just buildings that need to be restored; confidence must also be restored. Human suffering must also be given much more attention than is currently the case. Unfortunately, this dossier is now so extensive that it goes far beyond the expertise and employability of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Based on the advice of the Security Research Council, I have previously requested that the various interests of gas extraction be invested in different ministries by means of an approved motion. So that's what the room was for. How is the implementation of this motion progressing? Can the Minister explain today how he is working here with the Minister of the United States of America? Is there a plan aimed at preventing, identifying and treating health problems of residents? If so, who coordinates and finances that? How is the daily feeling of insecurity addressed? In recent years there has been an incredibly bad situation in terms of gas extraction, its size, aid to Groningen and repairing and paying for the mining-related damage. The Minister recently referred to this as government failure of non-Dutch proportions. The Minister's description of this, without turning around the hot stuff, adorns him. I want to know why things went the way they did. I want to know why gas extraction has remained so irresponsiblely high. As early as January 2013, State supervision of the Mines advised that no more than 12 billion cubic tons of gas per year should be produced. Even then, the probability of earthquakes remains, but with gas extraction of this 12 billion cubic metres, the problems will certainly not increase. In a broadcast of EenVrijdag Beginning 2015 13 February 2015 I believe it was the Prime Minister's statement that you should always do what the State surveillance of the Mines advises to do. But that's not what the cabinet did. The cabinet was advised by the SodM; the SodM set the maximum safe extraction at 12 billion cubic tons of gas per year and the minister then set the gas extraction levels twice as high. The Rutte II cabinet set the gas extraction levels for 2015 and 2016 at 30 billion cuub and 27 billion cuub respectively. Before that, the numbers were more than 40, but for 2015 and 2016 it became 30 and 27 billion cuub gas. Those figures were more than twice as high as the recommended 12 billion cube. And, Mrs Beckerman already referred to it, the former inspector general of State surveillance of the Mines called it "a ruthless decision" last week. A ruthless decision. Government failure of non-Dutch proportions. Mr President, there has been less of a parliamentary survey. I ask the Minister: why did Prime Minister A say, "you have to do what the supervisor recommends," but did Cabinet B, "we do what we want"? Why has it been decided not to fully implement the SodM's opinion? What interests were involved? What role did the safety of the Groningers play? What role did the 1963 secret agreement that is now on the table play? All the reasons for a parliamentary survey, I think. Three weeks ago, I tabled a motion for this, along with Mrs Beckerman. That motion was identical to the motion that Mrs Dik-Faber filed with me on 16 May 2016. I actually hope again for the support of the Christian Union in this matter, because the questions that exist about gas extraction in Groningen have only grown since 2016. I think everyone should want to know why things happened the way they did, so I really hope for support from a large part of the coalition. I will at least have the motion for a parliamentary inquiry put to the vote on Tuesday. Mr. Chairman. For more than five years, the cabinet, ministry and parliament have known that the gas extraction level should be reduced to 12 billion cubic metres. Three weeks ago, when I referred to 12 billion cubic metres of gas as a maximum extraction level and tabled a motion together with Mrs Beckerman, the Minister still accused me of sacrificing the 12 billion. The coalition voted off the motion. Until last month, the coalition itself thought it would be sufficient to reduce a poor 1.5 billion cube of gas over a four-year period. In the meantime, the Minister himself has indicated that he would like to return to 12 billion cubic metres as soon as possible, bearing in mind the advice of the SodM. In doing so, he gives substance to the Wassenberg/Beckerman motion and I thank him for that. Mr President, I should like to end with hope. I think it is to be commended that the Minister is showing decisiveness. The damage protocol was one previously requested by 200 major users to quickly step away from the Groningen gas. However, they should not resort to wrong alternatives. There are more reasons why we need to get rid of the gas quickly. Climate change is an important reason. Russian or Norwegian gas is not climate friendly and converting factories for this foreign gas is a waste of money and keeps us dependent on fossil gas. This morning or yesterday we read the report that in France a large number of companies receive more Groningen gas than they can use. The surplus is converted from low-caloric to high-caloric gas. That seems unacceptable to us. My final question to the Minister is, in time: is that message correct and if so, what can and what will the Minister do to stop that conversion from low-caloric to high-caloric gas in France and from other companies directly? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had one second left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u19	Yeah, that's what I was gonna say. Thank you. We will give it to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago we were here, in this same room, and I said that the Netherlands owes a debt of honour to the Groningen people. I also said that apology is only worth something if there are concrete actions linked to it. It is a good thing that this minister has acted swiftly, with the important result of a damage protocol supported by the region. My compliments to all those involved and to the power of action of the Minister. But the most important thing is that the residents are going to notice it now. The pile of damage reports is still sky high. We're already heading for the 6,000 after the heavy quake in Zeerrijp. And that's just the material damage. There's also a lot of immaterial damage, and it's immense. Gronings Perspective's research shows that many people are suffering emotionally and suffering from mental problems and health problems. One of the recommendations is a coherent approach, and frankly there is concern for me. Municipalities, the GGDs, the churches, the general practitioners are all involved in this in their own way. I ask the Minister to take control here and to ensure that the money from the coalition agreement ends up in the right place and that people can also call on mental care. Mr. Chairman. Now that there is a new damage protocol, the damages are finally assessed and handled independently of the NAM. Groningen has been waiting a long time for this. It is good that this cabinet chooses for the interest of the Groningen people and also for the sake of clarity. The release of the so-called contour line is also a recognition for every resident with damage, even when it comes to damage caused by the gas storage at Norg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u21	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber say that at last there is a new damage protocol, which has been waiting so long. But I am curious to know what she thinks of the 6,000 cases that are not included at all and that simply have to go to the NAM. I wonder whether she also thinks it would be better for them to go to the new point of contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mrs. Sazias is just ahead of me. I have also included a question on this in my text. The question is: why was it chosen to run old damages before March 2017 through the NAM? I don't have the answer to that. I wasn't in the negotiations either. I can see there's a damage protocol that's been worn by the region. This has the approval of the region, but I also ask these questions. So my question to the Minister is: why is that cut, that date included in this damages protocol?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u23	I understand your question, which is perfectly logical, and that you do not have the answer to the question about choice, but what is the view of the Christian Union? Do I understand from this that you also think that they should be able to report to the new point of contact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u24	I would like to have the answer to my question before I can express an opinion on it properly, otherwise I would not have asked the question. I would have said right away: I think it should be different. I would like to hear from the Minister what his answer is to the question as to why this construction was chosen, and then I come up with a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u25	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u26	I also had other questions about the damage protocol: who will be on the committee and how will independence be secured? My question is also about the arbitrators as we have them today, appreciated by the people in Groningen. Does the committee's objections which we will receive work as the arbitrators now function? And who are the counselors who are going to assist the people? I also have a question about the strengthening of housing; that has already been raised by others. There appears to be a so-called selling fine for fortified houses. That's how people experience it. In addition, people are not allowed to sell their fortified home within five years. According to the Minister, is that in the hook? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The advice of State surveillance on the Mines is crystal clear: we need to return to 12 billion cubic metres as soon as possible, win the plane is almost released and the clusters at Loppersum must close. Moreover, it remains code red for the time being. The Minister immediately took a first step. It is good that the production from the Loppersumclusters was also stopped last Friday. It was kind of weird that another big watchflame burned there. Are the Loppersum clusters now permanently closed, or can this change again in spring? And what happens to the 1 billion cub of Loppersum, I ask the Minister. Will the extraction ceiling be reduced by 1 billion cubic metres, so that the problem of earthquake sensitivity is not shifted to other municipalities? In his letter, the Minister states that he is committed to winning less than the maximum allowed this year. My question is: how is he going to do that? Mr. Chairman. Step two is to reduce the total gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres as quickly as possible. The structural solution to become independent of Groninger gas is a large-scale heat and energy transition. That is the commitment in the coalition agreement and also of the National Climate and Energy Agreement to be concluded. But the Minister must also act in the short term. I have seen that he has come to large consumers with a strong letter and has moved them, and that is good. By 2022 at the latest, there are in principle no large consumers using Groninger gas. But still a few questions. Yesterday there was news that in France low-caloric gas from Groningen is being upgraded to high-caloric gas. If this message is true, it would really turn the world upside down. Is the Minister going to prevent this? What further possibilities are there for using the additional nitrogen capacity for the import of natural gas? In 2015, a motion by ChristenUnion, CDA and PVV on an additional installation was unfortunately rejected. How nice it would have been, looking at today's situation, if that nitrogen plant had already been there. Is this anything else he's investigating for the Minister? The greenhouse horticulture has offered the Minister the opportunity to think constructively about making the greenhouses more sustainable. Does the Minister accept this offer? What does the reduction in gas production mean for the deployment of the Norg gas storage at Langelo? Let's make sure people don't get hurt there. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, we are also stopping the sale of gas burners and gas burners in the short term. Last weekend there was a beautiful article in the AD about Dutch top chefs who switch massively to induction. One of them literally said, full of gas on induction. He thinks induction even works faster and better. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a plan to phase out gas burners and gas burners? Mr. Chairman. Now I come to Shell and Exxon's liability. There are many questions about the withdrawal of the so-called 403 declaration of liability by Shell. It is clear from the hearing and from the Cabinet letter that the legal obligation of the NAM continues to apply in full to the compensation of the damage. Shell is also going to put financial liability on paper. Last week we heard Mrs Van Loon announce aloud: if the NAM cannot pay, then the account can go to Shell. I do have a few more questions for the Minister. Does the NAM have enough money to meet all future obligations? Will both Shell and Exxon Mobil put their financial liability on paper? Does the liability apply to all damage and also unlimited in time? Mr. Chairman. During the hearing, ExxonMobil repeated that it was ensured that the NAM would remain a profitable company and would be able to meet the payment obligations. That may be strange, but those words do not reassure me very much. Are we going to gain extra gas in other places to keep the NAM profitable? There is a lot of unrest about that in the country, including at Ternaard. My question to the Minister: can he confirm that the reduced production in the Groningen field does not lead to higher production from the small fields? There is now a "code of conduct gas extraction small fields," closed last September. Is the Minister considering a damages protocol for the small fields? Then I'll come to the farmhouses. I found it tough to see how the Minister got into one of the tractors parked on the Malieveld last week and talked to a number of farmers there. Some are about to go bankrupt due to damaged barns, dungeons and drainage. Complex damages are not dealt with quickly enough and there are many questions about preventive strengthening of farm buildings, as housing is a priority. Is the Minister also prepared to consult with LTO Noord on better damage handling and economic prospects for them? Mr. Chairman. My final point. Or do you want the interruptions first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u27	Yeah? Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mrs Dik-Faber mentioned that she is happy that the contours are off the table. You are now making a plea for a protocol for the small fields. My core question is: why are several people who suffer from earthquake damage caused by gas extraction in Drenthe and Groningen treated differently? This also applies to the gas storage in Graipskerk, which is treated differently from that in Norg. Does she agree with me that this should not be the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u29	The situation in Groningen is, of course, of exceptional proportions. I see the different gas extraction locations in our country. In Woerden there is also a threat of a gas extraction site, as well as in Heerenveen. But Groningen is of course a separate situation. I welcome the fact that Groningen now has this damage protocol and that the activities associated with the Groningenveld have been taken into account. Think about the gas storage at Norg. But at the same time, the people that Mr Nijboer has in mind also have to do with damage. I want them to have a proper procedure, too, and not to have to fight against large companies in order to be granted their rights. Today, in the states of the province of Drenthe, under the leadership of my party, a motion has been adopted which states that people must be able to go to an agency to ensure that the damage is properly compensated. So yes, I think it is very important that there should be a procedure, that there should be a protocol, but whether or not that should be the Groningen protocol, I don't have the answer to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u30	Actually, I was hoping you would, because this is really gonna be a huge job. This brings people back from the rain in the drip when they have to prove: this crack is Gronings and this crack is Drents. Those small fields are also nearby. We know how many small fields in Groningen, so why don't you show us? That's the misery we're about to get into. I wouldn't want to do that again. We've had those contours and we're threatening to get new Drentse and Groningen cracks again. We shouldn't want that, should we? We can get rid of it in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u31	The Christian Union does not want Groningen cracks, Drenthe cracks, Frisian cracks, South Holland cracks. That would be weird. What I want and what the Christian Union wants is that at the moment when people have damage, that damage is compensated. That's what we've arranged with each other in the Mining Act. There was an amendment by my group, which states that all damage will be compensated. So we just can't have crazy about who, what, how and where. Residents must have a window and be able to go somewhere. That damage just needs to be compensated. Let the Groningen protocol that has now been drawn up be guiding and inspiration. Think of the words. Something has to happen, but I'd like to take a moment to ask how we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u32	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr. Chairman. I come to my last point, and that is something that binds me and Mr Nijboer, because in the previous debate we adopted a motion on this subject, namely the monumental and characteristic buildings. It's so necessary. This morning I was shocked by the report in the Dagblad van het Noorden that 60% to 80% of the Groningen villages are being demolished. That must not, of course, happen. For example, on the list of endangered buildings there is a toll house from 1880, whose residents have been negotiating with the NAM for two years. New construction seems to be a better solution because it is cheaper. Strengthening is more expensive and the house no longer complies with the building decision. I'd say a lot of weeds, because it's a monument. Don't let Groningen disappear. Of course things will change, but people still have to feel at home. Illustration was the imminent demolition last Monday of the characteristic house in 't Zandt, for the time being averted by a protest. But with deputy Gräper I say: as long as there is no perspective, every demolished building becomes a threat to our home. Mr. Chairman. I see a minister with determination and I wish him courage and wisdom to hold on to this and give Groningen a future perspective again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u35	I would like to ask Mrs Dik-Faber the same question I asked Mrs Van Tongeren. In May 2015, I tabled a motion with Mrs Dik-Faber on a parliamentary survey. She was then the first petitioner and I signed that motion. If I have the motion that I tabled with Mrs Sandra Beckerman, which is exactly the same textually as the motion that we tabled together a little over two years ago, put to the vote again, what is the Christian Union's position on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u36	We are currently working hard to organise it better for the Groningers. There's a damage protocol, and it all needs to be put on the line right now. We're gonna bring down the gas extraction. 12 billion cuub is the advice of State surveillance. That's a big job. That's the focus we need to have with each other. I would not want us to be distracted from this focus by a parliamentary survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u37	I fully agree that the damage protocol, the handling, the payment of the damage and also the psychological damage at the moment are one priority, but of course one need not exclude the other. We must do everything we can to get this parliamentary survey off the ground right now. The motion that we tabled together, and which you have also looked closely at, also states that 'a parliamentary inquiry should not lead to delays in repairing or delaying the risk of earthquakes and mining damage'. So that reservation is already in that motion. With that knowledge, can the Christian Union still vote in favour of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u38	I think I have been very clear in my words. There are a lot of people working on the Groningen dossier: the minister first, with the entire team behind it, the people working on it in Groningen, the mayors, the aldermen and the National Coordinator with his team; so many people are working on this. I want their focus to be on solving the problems. We really need all the commitment and manpower we can get for that. A parliamentary survey is not helpful. It's gonna change the focus. Let's not let that distract us. First, maximum bet on solving the problems. Then we'll see if it's going to be a parliamentary survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you, Mr President. On 12 January, after the earthquake in Zeerijp, I spoke with three Groningen families: in a house with damage, in a temporary home and in a fortified house. Three families who have been faced for years with insecurity and uncertainty. Dozens of experts had been on the floor. These families were frustrated and angry about the slow process, the great role of the NAM and the politics that mainly talks a lot. But despite all this setback, these Groningers also showed enormous resilience. I asked them: what would you say if you were allowed to speak in the Chamber during such a debate? The answer was clear: reduce gas extraction, make the damage treatment independent of NAM, ensure sustainable strengthening of homes and have an eye for our health and social cohesion. Get to work on that. Mr. Chairman. Since that conversation, not a month has passed and a lot has happened. We have a new damage protocol made by the Empire and the region. There is a sharp and rapid reduction in gas extraction and we have immediately closed the wells around Loppersum. From the Minister, there is a strong commitment to reducing demand for Groningen gas by phasing out gas boilers, no longer connecting new buildings to gas and switching companies to sustainable alternatives. Even Shell promises to pay the bill. Important steps for Groningen's safety, but there's still a lot of work to be done. The reinforcement operation needs to be improved quickly. The guarantees of Shell, Exxon and NAM must be properly recorded and in order to be able to really shut down the gas tap, we need a mega operation, both for companies and households. In short, much remains to be done. The attention of this minister must not be weakened and we in the Chamber must remain on top of it. But the new damage protocol is indeed an important success to consider. Groningen has had to wait a very long time for it, but at last region and Empire have made good agreements together on the settlement of damages. Individual assessment of damages, generous compensation, no contours, the possibility to engage arbitrators or own experts and the NAM goes all the way out. My compliments to all local and regional directors, and to the residents' organisations that have fought for this for so long. A great compliment also to Minister Wiebes, who personally spoke and negotiated for tens of hours. I also hear from the region that his personal commitment and creativity have been very much appreciated, and have been important in the success of this important step. Just a few more questions. In fact, all these have already been put forward by colleagues, but I still have two. How does the Minister ensure that the NAM fulfills its promises to deal properly with all the damage before 31 March 2017 and to do so before 1 July 2018? Is the letter we received today, which includes 50 million, sufficient to achieve that? For the rest, due to time, I agree with all the questions raised by Mrs Van Tongeren, among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mrs Van Tongeren has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mrs Van Tongeren always has a question to ask on this subject, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u43	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mr Jetten talked about guarantees from the Shell and money to be put on the table. How does D66 appreciate the fact that dividends were paid in 2016? So while there was for millions and billions of destruction and payments were left behind, the shareholders, Shell and Exxon, received money in 2016 and also in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u45	We have received signals that dividend payments will not be discussed in the near future in order to ensure that the NAM holds sufficient cash. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to take a small piece of text from the continuation of my speech in order to give a full answer. We had a hearing last week. It took us a long time to get an answer. My question was: what if the NAM can no longer pay for the damage caused by gas extraction? The director of Shell Nederland said very clearly at that time: if the question is what happens if the NAM cannot pay the bill, the answer is that the account can go to Shell. That is an important and clear commitment. I would ask the Minister to record that commitment in black and white with Shell, Exxon and NAM, so that we all have the guarantee that either the NAM can continue to pay it, or Shell and Exxon will pay it. I think that your question about the dividend payout fits in very well with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u46	I agree with Mr Jetten that Shell must say that they are still partly principal. They will not, but they should say so; I wish the Minister strength in doing so. But this question is something else. In 2016, dividends were paid and a provisional dividend was paid in 2017. Would Mr Jetten like to join GroenLinks in asking at least what the amount is and call on the NAM to simply recover the provisionally paid dividend?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u47	These seem to me to be very clear questions from Mrs Van Tongeren. If you'll allow me, I'll direct it to the minister. Then perhaps we can discuss this further with each other in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u49	It is important that the damage protocol is there now, because dealing with decent damage is step one. But strengthening Groningen sustainably is step two. D66 wants to do the reinforcements in one go. Great reinforcement means: all homes without gas connection, with insulation and if possible also with solar panels. Strengthen from an integral vision of a neighborhood or village, preserving monumental and characteristic buildings, and residents who are themselves at the helm of that renewal. Strengthening well also means taking opportunities for the Groningen economy with windmills at sea, the fastest internet in the country and enough space for companies that see Groningen as an interesting location. Think of Google, Tesla and other tech companies. Groningen is also home to a large part of our chemical sector. Thanks to wind at sea, the green revolution of industry and chemistry in the Eemshaven can begin. We can turn the Groningen region into the test ground for our energy transition, where new innovations with hydrogen, for example, get all the space. That is not only good for Groningen; that is good for the whole of the Netherlands. If we are to do this strengthening operation right, we need a stronger role for the government here too. The new damage protocol shows that we can do things if the Empire and the region of Groningen join forces. Does the Minister agree with me on this? Is he prepared to conclude a strengthening agreement with the region aimed at sustainable housing, the preservation of cultural historical villages and the exploitation of economic opportunities? Is the Minister prepared to create experimental space where necessary so that legislation and regulations do not hinder this reinforcement, but rather facilitate it? Think of an isolation shell to a property that suddenly cannot be realized due to zoning plans or construction decisions. We need to make sure these cases don't get in the way of Groningen. I would like to hear what time the Minister intends to conclude an agreement with the regions on strengthening. Mr. Chairman. It recently became known that 10,000 Groninger have health problems due to the earthquakes and everything that comes with them. These psychological and social harms are actually a much more important problem than the technique behind the damage and tears. Whole families suffer from this. According to D66, there is a rush to better support. We've heard that before today. I asked the Minister during the previous debate whether he could make available the money earmarked for this purpose in the government agreement as early as 2018. The Minister's answer at the time was yes. I am very curious if the Minister can give us a further update in this debate on how quickly that money can be made available and with whom that money can land, so that civil society organisations, social work, municipalities and so on can also help Groningers quickly. Mr. Chairman. Then the height of the gas extraction. D66 has always said: the safety of Groningen determines the height of the gas extraction. The advice of the State surveillance we have just received must also be followed. It is good to see that Minister Wiebes intends to do the same. Short-term action was needed, such as closing the wells around Loppersum immediately. D66 wants to reduce gas extraction permanently to zero in the end. This can only be done if we reduce the demand for gas, the demand at home and abroad. Recently, this Chamber has already decided to phase out gas boilers and to stop connecting new buildings to gas. Next week we are talking about heat grids as an alternative to Groningen gas. In the meantime, the Minister is working to get companies off the gas. I have some questions. Can the Minister inform the Chamber as soon as the plans of these companies are presented to the Minister? What possibilities does the Minister see for reducing the demand for Groningen gas from abroad in the short term, particularly from France in view of the reporting? What possibilities does the Minister see to make better use of the LNG terminal in Rotterdam? Only 5% to 10% of capacity is now used, while in the short term it can serve as an alternative to Groningen gas. Finally, how does the Minister look at the questions asked by Mrs Dik-Faber about phasing out the sale of gas stoves and gas burners, also given the inspiring words of our Dutch top chefs in the AD last weekend?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u50	During the previous parliamentary debate, Mr Wassenberg and I made a proposal to reduce gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres, which is precisely the advice that SodM gives. You said at the time: 'I think we should get rid of the 12 billion as a Chamber, because that also leads to a lot of confusion'. Do you now regret that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u51	During the previous debate, reference was made to an opinion of State surveillance of a number of years ago. I also quoted the opinion at the time. I don't have it with me right now, but it said that the preliminary cautious conclusion was that back to 12 billion could be good. But the SodM itself later refuted those conclusions, or at least it said that it could not fully support them. My group has never wanted to participate in this bingo of numbers. We are not the experts here with 150 MPs who can determine the correct level of gas extraction. During the previous debate, I therefore said that I cannot support this motion at this time because I want to wait for the new opinion of State surveillance. That was not there during the previous debate. I also said: once the advice is available, it is not a question for D66 whether we are going to follow that advice, yes or no; we are going to follow that advice. That's what the Minister's doing now. 12 billion have now been chosen. But if State surveillance had said last week or two weeks ago 'it must be 10 billion for the safety of Groningen', I would not have wanted to be stuck with the motion tabled during the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u52	This, of course, means that five years have been lost, which the former inspector-general has called "competenceless." You contributed to that delay. Would you also like to contribute to an acceleration now? The Minister says that in March, at the end of March, he wants to come up with the first plans and perhaps in May and June with some proposals. We don't know when we're really gonna do anything. Do you agree with me, also in view of yesterday's reports, that acceleration is now possible and that, as far as I am concerned, the first two weeks of planning should be within a few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u53	I fully agree with Mrs Beckerman that we need to get to the 12 billion as soon as possible. I have also put a number of questions to the Minister. The sooner the better, but you also know how long the lead time is when, for example, we opt for a solution such as a nitrogen factory. So I do not want to promise people in Groningen that it will be at 12 billion next week, because nobody can live up to that. We need to make sure we get to that 12 billion as soon as possible. This can perhaps be done by making agreements with France, by making agreements with companies and by getting households off the gas, but these are all efforts that this minister is working on. If we can encourage or encourage him to do so as soon as possible, you will find me on your path, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u55	Actually, I was almost done, but I'll finish very quickly. A lot has happened in the last few weeks: a new damage protocol, and we're going to lower gas extraction, but we really need to make sure we move forward. The demand for gas must be permanently reduced. It is time for sustainable alternatives and sustainable reinforcement of Groningen. I have every confidence that this minister is doing the right thing. D66 will stay on top of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u57	I also ask Mr Jetten the question I have already asked twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u58	Three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u59	The Minister spoke of "government failure of non-Dutch proportions." Mr Jetten mentioned tens of thousands of cases and people who are mentally depressed and have major problems. We are also talking about billions of euros of damage. If this is not a good time for a parliamentary survey, what is a good time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u60	As far as I'm concerned, the focus in the coming period is on really rolling out the damage protocol. We have that now, but it will be a real challenge to let it land properly. That gas extraction has to go down and we have to make those deals with Shell and Exxon about payment, in case the NAM doesn't have enough money. My focus is further on strengthening Groningen right now. If we now choose to conduct a parliamentary survey, I am afraid that all those people who have to deal with damage settlement, gas reduction and reinforcement would be very busy preparing for that parliamentary survey. I don't think that helped Groningen. So I'd say not for a while. I would actually ask you to hold off on that motion until the Minister has moved on in a few months' time and has taken a number of steps again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u61	That was my question: how long do we have to wait? This seems to me to be the time for this parliamentary survey. The fact that this should not interfere with the other processes is obvious, but my question is: if this is not the time to roll out this parliamentary inquiry as quickly as possible, with the failure of the government of non-Dutch proportions and all the problems you mentioned. You say it's all important. I couldn't agree more, but what's the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u62	I think that this minister and this coalition have done quite a bit on this dossier in the first three months. With the support of all the political groups in this Chamber, we will continue to do so. If we were to say that we are going to conduct a parliamentary survey, I really believe that, for example, with the NAM, with Shell and with Exxon, all those people who are supposed to be working on other matters would be completely committed to closing that parliamentary survey. Groningen didn't help with that. The focus should be on dealing with damages and strengthening Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg, your last remark; then you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u64	So in three months, D66 will support that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u65	I just can't say that right now. I have indicated in my speech what I believe the Minister should do in the coming months. I'd like to give him some time first. Then we'll see again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u67	Mr President, thank you very much. Last Thursday many agricultural entrepreneurs were on the Malieveld. Fortunately, the minister came spontaneously to the activists. It's done us good. I went to one of them on Monday morning to see the damage to the premises, the pictures of the dungeon and the documents with my own eyes. The CDA would like to know how these entrepreneurs will be justiced and what arrangements the Minister will make with the agricultural sector in Groningen. Then, Mr President, the alarming investigations into the mental health of our inhabitants. How's the Minister handling that? It is quite clear to everyone in our country that the problems in Groningen are a national problem. The safety of our citizens must be paramount. The Minister is therefore right to follow the advice of State surveillance of the Mines to bring gas extraction back to 12 billion cubic metres. The CDA welcomes the implementation of the coalition agreement. In addition, last week the damage protocol finally came to pass, also for the residents of Norg at the gas storage. On behalf of my group, I would like to express our deep appreciation for the Minister and all those parties at the table who have succeeded together. The damage will be dealt with by an independent committee at a distance from the NAM. Can the Minister confirm that any damage that is still under discussion can also be dealt with by the committee which is now being set up? Or should they really wait for the NAM's attempt to reach agreement with them? Do they have a choice of their own, is our question. How does the Minister ensure that the large number of claims that are now being reported is dealt with for all these different groups, as Mrs Beckerman has already mentioned? Will the Minister also legally anchor this idea of an independent damage assessment by the committee and in the future the independent compensation fund? Can the Minister assure us that the damage is now being dealt with generously and that we are not going to get the picture of individual residents vis-à-vis the State rather than the NAM? That's a real scare for the CDA. Then we also have a lot of questions about the call for reinforcements. For the CDA, it is important that residents can decide for themselves what happens to their homes; that they get options for how their homes are strengthened and preserved. The inspections of the houses are lagging behind and the progress of the reinforcement is difficult. Far-out South was already coming forward. What is the Minister going to do to get the NAM to the back door? How does the Minister deal with the current contours as the extraction also shifts a little more towards the edges of the field? How will the Minister ensure more speed and customization in the reinforcement? When is the mandatory directive for reinforced building above the Groninger Field? How much space is there for innovations? How are the town and district plans going when many houses are advised to be demolished? What role is there for the municipalities? What role is there for the inhabitants? I ask this partly because of the commotion at the beginning of this week around 't Zandt. Mr. Chairman. Then it's about the gas extraction level. If you'll stop for a moment, I can have a drink. I'm not very good at voting. Apologies, colleagues and listeners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u68	I thought the emotions were getting up pretty good, but it's not. Maybe a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr President, this is a very emotional dossier and people are having a hard time with it. Then it's about the gas extraction level. We have code red in Groningen and the CDA wants to get rid of it as soon as possible. We will therefore have to use significantly less Groninger gas and make it more sustainable. This will require a reduction in exports, a maximum use of nitrogen capacity, the sustainability and removal of gas from households, and industry will have to make its contribution. Mr. Chairman. We are at an historic moment in the Netherlands and our history in order to achieve this sustainability. Unfortunately, this is partly due to everything that is happening in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u70	Jan de Jong, ex-inspector-general of State surveillance of the Mines, said: it is ruthless that in 2013 I gave an opinion in which safety was paramount and that gas extraction was then increased. What do you think of that statement? How do you feel about being ruthless?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u71	I have been in contact with Mr De Jong more often in recent years, even when he was an inspector. As a CDA, we have always made ourselves very angry and angry with the Groningers about this hugely high gas extraction in 2013. I have also always been surprised that the Safety Research Council has never included 2013 in its research, which was the worst year for all of us. Then I think, "How is that possible?" I find that really indigestible. Then I hear my PvdA colleague speak all kinds of fine words here, but he does not go into that year 2013. I find that very painful, because it really was the previous government that stood at the bar for this, and it really didn't. Yes, ruthless. I hate that gas extraction was so high back then. I've always resisted that. I've always objected to that. Of course, I have never really received a very good answer from Minister Kamp. Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Beckerman, who are now side by side, also know this: over the past few years I have really made myself strong for this from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u72	It is a good thing that you also say this: I have never had a good answer to that. Mr Wassenberg may not ask any more questions, but perhaps I can ask the next question a little on his behalf. You never got a good answer to that. We have never received answers to so many important questions. If you also think that it is ruthless to deal with people, we do not know exactly why it has happened. In your opinion, is it not time for a parliamentary inquiry? And if that is not now, when do you think it is time for a parliamentary inquiry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u73	The fact that we are going to have a parliamentary inquiry on this subject is now clear. That's beyond a shadow of a doubt. I think everyone realizes that. Just, you know, the question is, when are you gonna keep it? Mrs Van Tongeren also said: is this the right timing? Other colleagues also asked: is that convenient now? We hear from the Minister that we now have all hands on deck in the Ministry with nine people to manage everything so that we can regain perspective for Groningen. I think that should be done first. That is actually what Mr Wassenberg said in his motion. He only says: how then can we keep the survey but at the same time have no delay? I don't see that happening. And that makes it so difficult for me to vote in favour of this motion at the moment. Because if Mr Wassenberg were to propose it, I would be immediately in favour of it, but that is not the way it works in practice. And I think we should also take this practice into account. So I'd like to see us actually take those steps in the future with that damage protocol. Fortunately that looks good, but that is far from it, also given all my questions I have just asked about it. I also mention the reduction of gas extraction and what is needed for it and the reinforcements. Stand on it. These are very tough tasks, and we should all not give rise to the expectation that this will only take a moment. I'm sure we'll run into the wall a few more times, because things are going to be different than we expected or hoped. I don't want to raise false expectations here. At the same time, my group simply supported Mr Wassenberg's motion a few years ago. The fact that the CDA wants that for once is therefore completely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr Wassenberg feels addressed. He was not allowed to make any more interruptions and thought: this is the opportunity to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u75	I like that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u76	I have a question for Mrs Mulder. I understand her considerations, but if that motion may have to be expressed differently, I would like to think about it with her. The motion is now under arrest. If I formulate the motion slightly differently and therefore get the CDA's vote when I put it to the vote, then of course it is worth a sweet thing to me. So I'd like to sit with Mrs. Mulder around the table and talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr President, may I put another question to Mr Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u79	Of course, it's a bit of a weird shape. Thank you for being so generous. How do the Party for Animals and Mr Wassenberg see the split? I'm curious about that. He writes it down in his motion, but he doesn't write how he wants to do it. And there's the difficulty for me. How does Mr Wassenberg see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u80	You may respond briefly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u81	That motion states that one must not get in the way of another. The motion does not, of course, give any precise details of its implementation, but it is very clear in that motion that all the handling of damage should not be frustrated or delayed as a result of that survey. And I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u82	That does not give me the clarity at the moment, but I would like to thank Mr Wassenberg for his outstretched hand for continuing to talk about how this could possibly be done. For me, it is not just about the damage handling, but also about the reinforcements and the return of the gas. So it's just a few more things together. Maybe the capacity the minister has, those nine people, isn't enough either. This is another question in between; I'm smuggling, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u83	Yeah, I noticed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u84	Perhaps the Minister needs more people, the best people we have in our kingdom, who can further support him in that. Because this is such an important task and this cannot go wrong now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u85	The final parliamentary survey will undoubtedly include security of supply. Mrs Mulder and I fought side by side for years to clarify this. We have also struggled through dozens of letters and reports. We just got another letter from GTS. For the first time on page 6, it is clearly stated that it is only calculated on the basis of a realistic use of the funds contracted by it. So GTS never looked at what would be possible, what other resources there are in the four countries that use Groningen natural gas. It has only looked at the means for which it has a contract. And what I'm curious about is whether the CDA also supports GroenLinks in its demand to have independent identification of the nitrogen production facilities in those four countries. Where are there raises? Then I'm also talking about the stores that now contain high-caloric gas. What's going on? What could be possible? Does the CDA support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u86	I can read out the sentences I had included: "We ask the Minister to look again at the export contracts. I hear from various quarters that it really can go further down. I'd like a response from the Minister. The CDA wants the Minister to use nitrogen capacity at home and abroad to the maximum. What's he gonna do?" This is entirely in line with the questions put by Mrs Van Tongeren; and quite rightly so. Because of course it is very strange that we hear in the journal that low-caloric gas is exported abroad and that this is then converted back into high-caloric gas in France. You're almost talking about a billion cub. That's a lot!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u87	Fourth question, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u88	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. With me, Mrs Mulder probably finds it strange that there is gas storage just across the border at Ommen. There is also a nitrogen facility and there is a GTS connection. We have never heard of it in that period. Eneco is one of the companies that rent there. It has offered to make its facilities available. You can quickly dampen a peak question with that. On extra cold days can therefore be produced very quickly. I'm very indignant that we never heard of this. I'm assuming the CDA shares this. That's why I don't want this investigated by GTS, but by an independent club.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u89	That was not a question, but a statement by Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u90	Yes, but it is a statement that has been taken from my heart, because it is just a bad thing that not everything is used. We have to go back and the minister has to go back. He's gonna need everything to make that happen. It is terrible that it has not yet happened, but fortunately it offers a perspective, so that we can go further down here, and perhaps even in a shorter period. We think that is very important. Mr. Chairman. The CDA also asked the Minister to come up with a gas dismantling and sustainability plan for the built environment. When can we see that? Furthermore, industry will have to switch to high-caloric gas or sustainable alternatives as soon as possible, but this is not really happening, as we hear in the media. If that is the case, our group is a little disappointed by these companies. Surely it can't be a complete surprise for these companies? I myself tabled a motion on this matter a number of years ago to deal with it as a matter of urgency. Companies always look at risks, don't they? Are you sure they didn't see this? How is the Minister going to see how the State and the companies can come to a joint solution? Or is the minister going to have a company-by-company conversation? And how many companies have already responded to the letter? And what are the follow-up steps? In any case, here today I would like to appeal to Eneco and Nuon, who use the Groninger gas for heat production, on their responsibility and their requests to take on a sustainable frontrunner role and to move quickly, at least that will be temporary on high-caloric gas. Mr. Chairman. The SodM also made recommendations about the Loppersumcluster. Last Friday, the Minister had the cluster shut down. The NAM advised that the city of Groningen should also close the Eemskanaalcluster. According to GTS, the cluster can also be closed. Does the Minister have a visual on the Eemskanal cluster? How does he judge that? Mr. Chairman. Groningen's concerns about the future are great. In the past week, everyone has thought: is the damage caused by the gas extraction in ten, twenty years' time or after that, when Shell seems to withdraw? My group, too, is concerned about this. Fortunately, Shell has confirmed up to six times in the hearing that if the NAM even goes bankrupt, the account can go to the Shell. Shell is going to guarantee the mining damage in Groningen and pay the bill, but I do like to see that black and white. Is this also meant for intangible damage? To what extent is the Minister talking to Shell Nederland and Exxon about this? Can we also assess the conflict resolution in the Lower House in April/May? The concerns about the future of compensation for the damage lie in the combination of the reduction in gas extraction and the deteriorating financial position of the NAM. Mr De Jong of ExxonMobil said at the hearing that it was the commitment to keep the NAM profitable. But how is that possible while gas extraction is going down and the costs are likely to rise, so I ask the Minister. Is this also in conjunction with the secret agreement of the 1960s that was announced last week between the state and the forerunners of Shell and Exxon? The cooperation seems difficult to terminate. It says that the agreement ends with economic exhaustion of the Groningen gas resources. What then means is economic exhaustion, so I ask the Minister. That brings me to the negotiations on the gas building. What are the points of negotiation of the Minister? Mr. Chairman. In view of the above, the CDA wishes to draw the attention of the Minister to the possibility of a provision in the Mining Act. On the basis of Article 46, the Minister may require that security be provided to cover the liability for the damage which is reasonably estimated by the movement of the soil resulting from the extraction of minerals. To what extent will the Minister make use of this article? Partly due to the government failure in Groningen during the damage settlement there are also questions about the transfer of the extraction to other fields. Can the Minister indicate if that's going to happen? There are residents from other provinces such as Drenthe, who already have damage as a result of mining activities. There are also residents who have been damaged by activities in the past, such as in Limburg. They'd like to see an independent party be there for them, too. In July 2017, the Minister wrote that the Technical Committee on Soil Movement would look into improving the handling of mining damage throughout the Netherlands in the coming months. But I haven't seen those improvements yet. The independent assessment at the initial stage, as now also provided for the Groningen Harm Protocol, seems to the CDA to be a workable solution for the rest of the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with the CDA Group? This means that residents living in areas with mining activities no longer have to fear that their damage will only affect the large mining companies. Mr. Chairman. Finally. There seems to be movement in Groningen. And that's a better move than the movement in the ground, said an entrepreneur from Loppersum to me. And with him, I hope it all goes in the right direction. Do I dare, in spite of all the misery, to be cautiously optimistic with him? I wish the Minister a great deal of strength and wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u91	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u92	Thank you, Mr President. We are fully aware that Groningen has been left to its earthquake lock for far too long. Then you think again: every day you have to be in suspense about another quake, the next cracks, the next hassle with the damage handling. And then it doesn't help if you feel that in faraway The Hague, as it is experienced, the shoulders are being lifted and that the national wallet is being preferred over your safety. But by now, a lot has changed. There is a new damages protocol, in which The Hague takes responsibility all the way to it. I would like to express my appreciation for the efforts of the Minister. The Minister takes over the advice of State surveillance to substantially reduce gas production. In a press release from Groningen I read: we are far from finished, but the first floor to restore confidence seems to be laid with this. It is now the task to deliver on these fine words in practice. The commitment of the State is not an encore, but it is absolutely necessary, according to the published secret agreement of more than 50 years ago between the State of the Netherlands and the NAM. Mr. Chairman. The SGP supports the commitment to reduce gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres. The hard reality is that even with the best will in the world, this cannot be settled overnight. But that does not mean that we must do our utmost to achieve this in the shortest possible time. In this context, I would like to ask a few questions. Research by the NIS shows that more Groninger gas is exported than is necessary. In France, almost 1 billion cubic metres were converted last year, and it has been mentioned more often in high-caloric gas. When you read that, you think: this can't be true, can it? The bewilderment expressed by my fellow Members also struck me. It has always been said that we do not export more than is necessary. I would like some clarification on this. Is this head gonna come off fast? The Minister writes that in the current gas year less gas can be extracted if it is controlled by higher use of nitrogen. He makes an urgent appeal to NAM and GasTerra for this. It sounds to me like the Minister has no instruments to enforce this. I read in the letter from the Gasunie that it depends on the market's ability to steer. Then it starts to tickle a bit. Can the Minister not take out more than an urgent appeal? Does he also appeal to abroad? Or perhaps there are other instruments. I would like clarification on these points. If I understand correctly, there is currently no maximum use of enrichment of Groningen gas with high-caloric gas for export. Why not? Is the Minister going to put this on? In very mild winters, 14 billion cubs are needed. In severe winters this is much higher. To date, this has been limited due to the idea that too much fluctuation in gas extraction causes additional tremors. State surveillance indicates that field-wide fluctuation limitation is not necessary. However, should regional fluctuation be avoided? What does this mean for the minimum gas extraction level? How will the Minister ensure effective control of gas extraction? We must prevent the NAM from getting the best out of the can, while the low gas demand allows for a lower level of extraction. TNO indicated that more can be done with gas storage as a buffer for gas demand in a severe winter. What is the government's commitment to this? The Minister asked 200 industrial companies to save energy and switch to high-caloric gas. These companies will understandably not just move and have not arranged it overnight. But there's a profit to be made. And I'm referring to the phasing out of gas extraction. For example, the Gasunie indicated that conversion of seven large industries and energy companies could save more than 2 billion cubic metres of Groninger gas. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that these companies can really get started, except to invite them kindly or to ask them urgently? The greenhouse horticulture sector also indicates that there are several possibilities for accelerating the reduction of natural gas use in this sector. Here again the question: what possibilities does the Minister see for achieving the best possible acceleration? Then the nitrogen injection. I agree with the questions that colleagues have asked; I will not recite them further. As a result of the new damage protocol, I still have a few points. There are 6,000 outstanding claims before 31 March 2017. On the one hand, the Minister writes that they are also arrested by the new committee and, on the other hand, that the NAM will make an ultimate attempt to deal with them. Who's gonna do what? In any case, that needs to be clarified and I assume that the Minister will be able to give it in this debate as well. It is important that outstanding claims are resolved quickly and generously and that the committee can be involved if residents do not come out with the NAM, should the NAM be assigned a final role here. Mr. Chairman. Groningen farmers put on the naughty boots last week and travelled to The Hague with a tractor. They have problems that have not been addressed sufficiently so far: leaking dungeons, sagging silos, concrete paths and drainage problems. These are both the result of earthquakes and the fall in soil. Now schools have been chosen for a separate programme. Is the Minister prepared to do the same for agriculture? It must not be the case that farmers are left in the cold and are therefore actually the victims of less visible consequences. At the reinforcement call, the NAM is still on the move and that causes a lot of twitching on which the residents are the victims. Is the Minister also looking at the remoteness of the NAM? Mr President, a brief look back. The SGP had and has a bad feeling of huge gas production in 2013. I agree with the comments made by my fellow Members on this point, albeit in a slightly milder way. That was the year in which the first red card of State surveillance on the Mines was drawn. Minister Kamp acted like his nose was bleeding at the time. The former Inspector General De Jong recently said that the Ministry was well informed and had consciously given room for a production level of more than 50 billion cubic metres. I would appreciate it if the Minister could give us some clarification on this. What exactly is this about? Mr President, I should like to leave it at first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I go to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I was allowed to do this portfolio, I have, of course, been in Groningen several times, like colleagues in the Chamber, and I have heard, firsthand, what this uncertainty does to the Groningen people. I am also... let me put it another way: I hope that what we are discussing here today, the new damage protocol, has removed or can take away some of that unrest by the steps that the Minister has taken with the local administrators and the guarantees that the damage will be compensated. I hope that is beginning to contribute somewhat to a little more peace, because in the last three weeks, three weeks ago, we were talking about the same subject here. It is very good that we are discussing the various topics that affect the Groningen people in conjunction with each other right now. Mr. Chairman. I too, like my colleagues, would like to begin with the damage protocol. The Groningers have waited a long time for this and what seemed almost impossible three weeks ago is now complete. There is a damage protocol that the local directors and the minister have actually jointly offered to the Groningers. This is a first step and I am well aware that there are a lot of other steps to be taken, but I would like to use this moment here to thank everyone in Groningen for their commitment, and of course also the Minister. The damage of the injured will be generously compensated, as has been said. An independent committee assesses the damage and, of course, if people disagree with this assessment, there is scope to initiate an objection procedure. Very important is that the duped Groningers have nothing to do with the NAM anymore. The NAM, and if it has to Shell, will take responsibility and take up the bill, but the Groningers don't have to relate to it anymore. I think that's very important. A lot of questions have already been asked about the damage protocol. I also have a few; there is some overlap, but I'm going to mention them anyway. As of 19 March, the inhabitants of quake areas will be able to go to one point of contact, where the complete damage will be dealt with. That's really fast. I appreciate the pace, but at the same time we can see that unfortunately it will not go smoothly and completely well from 19 March. I think that's very ambitious. I hope things will work out, but let's say things don't work out the way we want them to. I would like to know from the Minister what the process would look like. What means do we have there to deal with it in such a way that there can be acceleration immediately? Who has the responsibility for this and what does it look like? When will the members of the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage be appointed? When will we know who they are? More questions have already been asked about the over 6,000 old reports. The agreement now states that an appropriate solution must be found and that the NAM still has the lead in this. But the Minister also makes it very clear that he is on top of it and keeps his finger on the wrist. I would like to know from the Minister what that looks like. What does it mean? Can the Chamber also be regularly informed about progress and how it is going? It would, of course, be very unfortunate if we had to conclude again after a long time that those old claims are not properly taken up. So I think it is right that we should be able to respond to that in good time. There is a lack of clarity about the so-called selling fine. If a house is sold after reinforcement or after demolition and reconstruction within five years, the seller should pay a fine. I'd like to know exactly what's going on with the Secretary of State. Let me be very clear here: if you are a homeowner and if you want and can sell your house, even if that is within five years of reinforcement or construction, there should be absolutely no penalty for this in the VVD. Let me be clear, but I would like to get an explanation from the Minister on exactly how this works. Does this have or doesn't have a place in the new damage protocol, or might it be picked up elsewhere? Mr. Chairman. The safety of the Groningers is central. I do not think that is at all under discussion today. The Minister has indicated since he took office that he wants to bring down gas extraction as quickly as possible in a responsible manner. He has our full support. The reports of State surveillance of the mines, SodM, and the Gasunie last week provide important guidelines. The Minister also acted directly by indicating that he will close the Loppersum clusters and that he will start preparing for limiting the fluctuations in production from the Bierum cluster to a maximum of 20%. It is good that we are moving so quickly, but, as has been said here earlier, of course we are not there with that. We all know that we can't just take everyone off the gas from today to tomorrow; that should be enough. It's going to cost a lot of effort, time and money. The newspapers, I think, even made headlines last week that it would be an impossible task. I don't know if it's impossible; I think it's hard. I also think we're gonna make it happen together. The Minister undertook to present his scenarios at the end of March for how to achieve a reduction. These scenarios, I think, will by definition contain a mix of measures. Several of these have already been heard: the phasing out of contracts with abroad, the optimisation of nitrogen capacity and the appeal of large consumers. The VVD would like to inform the Minister that, as far as we are concerned, he has the full mandate to look at this as creatively as possible. I am not going to give all kinds of points here today, all kinds of measures that have to be included in those scenarios by definition, but I am certainly not going to name any obstacles. As far as we are concerned, the Minister has the mandate to look into what is needed for this and how we can deal with it responsibly as quickly as possible. You do know our framework and framework conditions. We have mentioned them here before, and I would like to repeat them briefly. The safety of the Groningen people is central; that should be clear. We would also like to know what the distribution of costs in the various scenarios then involves: how does this land with households across the country? We also get a lot of emails from people from the Netherlands who say: we are very sympathetic to the Groningers, do the gas extraction down as soon as possible, but what is this going to mean to me? That is a very fair question, and I hope that will be taken into account in the scenarios. This also contributes to the support for the measures that will then be presented. A prerequisite is, of course, also, depending on the scenarios and measures, the international competitiveness of industry, which 200 companies have also had a letter. I would also very much like them to be able to turn their obstacles to the Minister and say: I want to contribute to this, but I need this and that and that of you. I would like to know from the Minister what the scenario process is like right now. How do you ensure that all possible options are on the table? What's your trade-off framework? What conditions do you apply? Mr. Chairman. I started my story by saying that a lot has happened in recent weeks. Important steps. But we have to realize that these are only the first steps. There is still a lot to be done and I think we will be standing here with each other more often. The phasing out of mining is now our first priority. But colleagues have already said that a very important aspect is, of course, the question of what the perspective is for Groningen. That is an issue which, of course, needs to be taken up there, but I would like to know from the Minister what the process is going to be like. The Netherlands is off the gas, I have just said something about this. It's either going to be a huge file where we have to get together. There is, of course, a very important aspect in that whole process, in that transition. We're gonna have to switch to clean energy together. I hope that this has enormous opportunities for our economy and that we can use it in that way. Mr. Chairman. I see I've only got 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u95	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u96	But I've only got one sentence left. I'm assuming that we can realize this together and that we're just gonna do this with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u97	I heard rightful words about buyers, appreciation and skimming. We have to get rid of that. I very much agree with the VVD on that. I would like to ask the VVD if she thinks that tenants in housing corporation are also compensated for the depreciation. It's hundreds of millions. Should they notice anything about it in their wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u98	May I ask an enlightening question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u99	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u100	Actually, I don't quite understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u101	The background is that the VVD always stands up for buyers. That's great, but do they have anything in store for tenants? More precisely, the value of real estate in Groningen has fallen by about a billion as a result of the earthquakes. Of course, this applies to buyers, but that also applies to tenants. Housing corporations get several hundred millions. I think some of that should end up with tenants. Because they also have a nuisance, not only for buyers. Does the VVD agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you for your clarification. I stand here because I stand up in this debate for the Groningen people. I am not talking about the buyers on the one hand and the tenants on the other; I think that everyone's damage should be paid generously. The moment you sell your house, I don't think there should be a fine on that. I think that's the most important thing. I would like to hear from the Minister how the talks are going, because we have also been to Groningen, we have also talked to tenants who clearly indicate the bottlenecks with the housing corporations they have. I'd like to get a response from the Minister about how the talks are going with them and what their role might be in the damage protocol, but here it is really about not getting a fine as a homeowner because you're getting your house sold if you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u103	We agree on that, as I said at that point. I just hear a little too much in the debate that it's just about buyers. This while about half of the people have a rental house. They also have trouble and misery. Their house is worth less and they have less enjoyment of living, but no one talks about rent restrictions or rent reductions to compensate. This while housing corporations can face a lot of money. So I'd be okay if the VVD said something about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u104	The damage protocol also focuses on the intangible damage, which, of course, partly covers this. The point is that people can move on as quickly as possible with their lives in safe, fine houses. How we manage that, I like to hear from the Minister, but it's about getting a quick look at perspective and getting on with your life. I think that should be our focus right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u105	In the years of Rutte I and Rutte II, VVD has always been a party to a small, slender government and has significantly cut back on government apparatus. Now we see this major operation and that this minister between six and nine... the messages vary.. employees in the department need. Wouldn't the VVD, together with GroenLinks, give this minister a few very good top negotiators and more people who can help solve this government failure of non-Dutch proportions? Supports the VVD expansion of officials for EZK on this specific file.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u106	I hear Mrs Van Tongeren say: shouldn't the Minister have some top negotiators? Three weeks ago we thought it was impossible to come up with a damages protocol, but three weeks later we are standing here saying that it is so nice that the local administrators and the minister have come out. I think it's going the way it is and we've been making huge strides since the minister got here. At the moment when the Minister states that he needs more, I think we will all listen to it, but I note that huge steps have been taken in those few weeks. It is not just those few people who work hard at the ministry, but also, of course, the people who worked hard in the province to get this done. We're not gonna settle this here in this room. This is worn in the province. That's why I started thanking you for all the effort that was shown in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u107	I am not going to ask Mrs Yeşilgöz if she wants a parliamentary survey, because I think I can guess the answer. You'd rather not look back. I understand that, too. You want to look ahead. That's important, too. You praise the Minister for the pace that has been set. We also want to speed up the reduction in gas production. Do you not think it is very late to come up with plans again in March, May, June or September, especially in view of yesterday's news that there is too much exports to France and that large consumers also say that they see opportunities to get rid of the gas earlier? Do you agree with me that we should have the first proposals in a few weeks' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u108	For starters, I especially glorified the carrying capacity of Groningers. They've got us here in three weeks with a damage protocol. And I thanked the Minister for his contribution to that. I prefer those scenarios today, but it is about when there is a combination of measures that not only show how gas extraction can be reduced but also how we can then meet demand and provide security of supply. This combination of measures is, of course, important. We can pretend it's solved if we turn a switch somewhere, but I wish! Then why shouldn't I be willing to do that with Mrs. Beckerman? I just want there to be a nice package of what we can really make happen. And to be honest, if we were to have a chance last week that it was an impossible task, I do not find until the end of March too much time. Again, today rather than tomorrow. But it's really going to be working day and night to lay down scenarios that have been passed on and that we can all live up to with which the Groningers and the rest of the Netherlands are not in the cold, the contracts can be cut down and the nitrogen capacity can be optimized. This is just not a simple story. Then let's not pretend that we are and create a false image here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mrs. Beckerman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u110	Wow, "creating a false image"! Look, ma'am, it's code red in Groningen and that's it for another year, partly because the previous government has dealt ruthlessly with the security of the Groningen people. I do not think that is a false image, but a reality. It's code red. Now there are opportunities to intervene quickly. Then why would you leave that? We can get down there fast. Why would you want to waste any more time when the code is red and so many mistakes have been made? Why would you want to waste any more time? I really don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u111	I told you, I go to Groningen a lot. I am speaking to Groningers who understand very well that tomorrow it will be a problem if you turn off the gas tap today. They understand that incredibly well. I know Mrs Beckerman often comes to Groningen. I would recommend that you listen to those sober Groningers who are very well aware of that. The fact is, we're gonna do it as soon as we can. That's what it is. But at the moment you're gonna wear off, you're gonna have to get your power from somewhere else. Unfortunately, it's that simple. That's what makes it so complex for the minister. It would be a credit to Mrs Beckerman if she were honest about this, if she would also say to those people when she goes home to Groningen: this is why we are taking time, because we want to put down something that we can all make true. That's my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u112	I hear a whole story from Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD. She tells us what has gone well in recent times and has good words for the Minister. She's talked about safety several times. She even mentioned safety as a prerequisite. I'm sorry, but there are houses in Groningen that are collapsing, so that security isn't in order at all. Then I wonder, despite all these fine words of the VVD: how long has the VVD not been on the buttons in this country? Why hasn't the VVD done something for the Groningers in recent years? Mrs Yeşilgöz says: fantastic, that we have achieved a damage protocol within a few weeks. No, Mrs Yeşilgöz. You abandoned the people of Groningen for years. So the question is, where have you been all these years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u113	It is very special to hear this from the PVV, which keeps a whole story in every possible debate on climate and energy, that we should above all not do anything about climate change and that we should stop all investments in clean energy, which should then only increase gas production in Groningen. The last time the PVV tried that, I saw in the room that that was not entirely believed by the present Groningers. With all due respect, if you do not want to invest in a transition so that we can get rid of the gas, I think you have little right to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u114	Thank you very much for this contribution. Mrs Yeşilgöz only shows that the PVV is right. I just asked her, "Where has she been these past few years?" No, you've left the Groningers hugely behind, and now you're doing exactly the same thing. I have said many times in the debate, three weeks ago too: you abuse this debate and you abuse the terrible situation that the Groningen people are in to promote your own climate and energy story. You're doing it again. You're abandoning the Groningen giants again. You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u115	I note that the PVV is holding on to the story: we are against all forms of transition and clean energy; leave Groningen alone what do you say? Let there be more gas, because somewhere the gas supply has to come from. Somewhere, the power supply has to come from. It's just not a credible story from the PVV. I understand it's hard to explain, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u117	Then Mrs Yeşilgöz really needs to listen better to my contribution. It is really scandalous that she wants to take it off this way, as if the PVV were abandoning the Groningers. Did you listen carefully to what I said? Did you listen carefully? Gas extraction must be reduced due to safety. The damage must finally be paid out. Then you dare to blame the PVV, which has been working in this country for many years, making a mess of things and abandoning the people, for not offering solutions to the Groningen people. You must be truly deeply and deeply ashamed. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. But that you can bring it so shamelessly, it's just embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u118	"The gas extraction must be reduced and the PVV offers solutions." There hasn't been a single solution. The PVV did not mention a single measure that could reduce the extraction of gas. Sorry, I have to correct myself. Yes, becoming more dependent on countries like Russia. That's what the PVV keeps quoting. I do not believe that there is only one Dutchman, not even in your constituency, who is waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u119	Your last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mrs Yeşilgöz has already made those accusations in the previous debate. She's repeating herself. I've put in so many solutions. We're gonna have to break the export contracts. We proposed this in 2014. What does the VVD do? He's voting against it. Where were you then? And how does it depend on Russian gas? There's just a pipeline from Russia to Germany, the Nordstream 1. You asked about that last time. There's a second pipeline next to it now. Nota bene the European Commission is interfering. He's fine with it, on his way to a gas union. And you're such a fan of that European Commission. So why: we need to be independent of Russian gas? Don't sell any bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u121	I won't go into that any further, except... It's just a summary of the policy, of the PVV's vision: stop extracting gas, we don't have an answer, get even more gas from Russia, because there are already pipelines. It's been noted. Indeed, we have had this exercise before and I suspect we will get it more often. I actually think that is a very good thing, so that people in the Netherlands know what the PVV's vision of this file is. That seems very sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. Members of the staff. Minister. Last week I spoke extensively with Sijbrand Nijhoff. Sijbrand Nijhoff is the Groningen farmer from Zijldijk, in the middle of the Groningen earthquake zone, who recently revealed the secret deal from 1963 between Shell, ExxonMobil and the State. I called him to thank him on behalf of all the people who care about this and also to call him a hero. I find it incredibly brave what he's done and incredibly important. But he told me some stories that scared the hell out of me. Not only is the material damage in Groningen enormous, also the psychological damage is great: divorces, suicides, diseases, overwhelmed people who can no longer work, children with nightmares. He told me a story about a farmer who has a vulture cellar whose concrete walls were cracked by the earthquakes and who is now being charged with violating environmental legislation. How kafkaesk do you want it? That's the order of the day in Groningen and it's just an example, one of the many stories he told me. The injustice is poignant. This can't go on! That is why the Democracy Forum has tried several times to force the Minister, by means of a motion, to actually compensate for all the damage by 1 July at the latest. We shall retable this motion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u124	A very emotional speech by Mr Baudet, to which I think everyone can subscribe. But why does the Forum for Democracy vote time and time again against motions to reduce and reduce gas extraction, the cause of all these problems? Why does the Forum for Democracy keep saying "we need to win more in Groningen, we will compensate them and the problem will solve itself"? Why do you let the Groningers...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u125	Yes yes yes yes, the question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u126	...scathed over and over again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u127	Yeah, yeah. You tend to repeat yourself a time or three, four times, but I understood the question the first time. It is not true that we are voting against all the motions to reduce gas extraction. Last time we voted in favour of the major motion to reduce gas extraction. But what we do not agree with and therefore we do not vote in favour of are the specific motions in which one quantity of gas is referred to. So we did agree to the general ambition to that extraction... that's just a given. Mrs Van Tongeren's motion, which we voted in favour of, so I do not know why she is here now. That was last week, if I'm right. We support that general directive. But indeed, we are not in favour of the complete end of gas extraction. We think it's important to keep winning gas. Only: you have to compensate Groninger properly, adequately, immediately, and in a way that they do not deteriorate in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u128	Last question, and then you're through your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u129	I know that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u130	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u131	The latter has to compensate for the latter, but the cause must also be removed. Less export: voted against the motion. Sustaining the Dutch economy: voted against the motion. To 12 billion, as soon as possible: voted against the motion. That's what you do here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u132	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u133	That makes your actions here completely unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u134	No, that's bullshit, because we did vote for the general motion in which the gas extraction... yes, you can shake no, but it just is. So we just voted for it last week. You'll be able to find it in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u135	Mrs Van Tongeren has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u136	I have here a random grasp of a number of motions that have not been supported by the Forum for Democracy on gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u137	No, well, I'm sure there are all kinds of motions not supported, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u138	Mind if I finish? We have here...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u139	Yeah? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u140	We have rules here, Mr. Baudet. I'm gonna have a few minutes to finish, and then it's your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u142	There are several motions to bring down gas extraction not supported by Forum for Democracy. But also my law to stop connecting new buildings to gas, which Forum for Democracy voted against. The PvdA amendment, too, was voted against by the Forum for Democracy. So the tone is that the Forum for Democracy doesn't want to take away the problem at all, doesn't come up with a solution and here the rest of the Chamber is taking a bit of the measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u143	At least the latter is true. We'll do it as much as we can. We need to keep ourselves and each other sharp. The first part doesn't add up. At the heart of the problem is the totally inadequate way in which the people of Groningen who suffer damage are compensated. That is the most important thing we need to do. Furthermore, we do not want the Netherlands to go off the gas, that the Netherlands no longer uses gas, because this whole energy transition is a concept that we do not believe in. That is something that costs incredibly much money and results virtually nothing, so that's not a good idea. But of course, you're gonna have to win less gas, but even if we stop all the gas extraction in Groningen tomorrow, the earthquakes won't stop. It is much better to focus on adequate compensation which is so good that people are well compensated, more than compensated and actually compensated, and on the other hand accept that this situation will unfortunately remain problematic in the future. We cannot completely stabilise the climate and soil situation in Groningen with one snap of fingers. That's fantasy politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr Baudet is now saying that the soil is still moving. Does the Forum for Democracy say: if this compensation is properly arranged, then we can continue to pump gas out of the Groningen soil until that gas bubble is empty?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u145	Yes. Actually, that's about what I think, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u146	That is a very clear answer. This means that in the next decades, when the Forum for Democracy is in place, we can continue to gain gas in Groningen, that the decline in soil and the soil movement will continue for decades to come, that only the resolution of damage is absolutely not enough, that we must also strengthen all homes and that even if we have done the reinforcement operation, we cannot guarantee the Groninger security. Does the Forum for Democracy think that this is a good approach to the gas dossier?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u147	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u148	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr President, I have a follow-up question, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u150	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u151	You said just now in reply to Mr Nijboer's questions: if there are general motions for a reduction in gas extraction, then the Forum for Democracy will vote for it. We have many examples that that is not the case. So in addition to that Forum for Democracy that wants to drain gas bubble in Groningen, is Forum for Democracy also fine if we are going to get gas from unstable regimes in Russia and the Middle East to meet the rest of the gas demand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u152	I'm just gonna put the word "fine." I don't like doing that. In today's world, there are many problematic regimes. There are. We have to deal with this in a variety of forms: international relations, defence. In the United Nations, you sit with them at the table and so on. Of course, I would have liked it better if the whole world consisted of all countries like my ideal country Switzerland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u153	Finally, Mr President. A beautiful nuanced answer is now available to me from Mr Baudet, but this debate has given clarity to all Groningers: Forum for Democracy chooses to simply pump the gas bubble in Groningen, even though it means earthquakes and damage for the next few decades, and if that gas bubble is empty, then we'll just get the gas out of Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u154	So that was Mr Jetten's conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u155	Can I add one thing to that? I strongly object to the phrase 'empty to pump'. Sounds like it's rücksichtslos happening. I am in favour of reducing the amount. This is very important in order to stabilise that land more, but we cannot rule out the possibility that there will still be unrest in the ground. Even if you stop completely now with all forms of gas extraction, there will be unrest in the ground for decades to come. That's what all the reports show. I think it is very important to put this right. We are now creating a picture of people who want stability on the one hand and people who want gas extraction on the other, but that is not how it is. As a result of this gas extraction, there is permanent instability in the ground and, unfortunately, it will remain so. The best thing to do is to focus on a very good and very adequate compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u156	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u157	That is why we call for people to have the money in their accounts before 1 July. In the phone conversation with Sijbrand Nijhoff the following also happened. He warned me about the vile doubles, as he called it, of Liesbeth van Tongeren van GroenLinks. He said he wanted to reveal the secret deal at a hearing in 2016, but that former Greenpeace director Liesbeth van Tongeren then shut him up and stopped him. In the debate on 16 January, we saw another example of Mrs Van Tongeren's strange attitude when, in response to our plea to open the deal, she said that she agreed with Wiebes that this absolutely should not happen. She said the last thing the Groningers need is billions of lawsuits against Shell and Exxon. A former Greenpeace director who doesn't want to sue Shell; the miracles aren't over yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u158	Mrs Van Tongeren now has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u159	This is, of course, premeditated entrapment. What Mr Baudet also knows is that it was already in the newspaper in 2015 that Sijbrand Nijhoff had secret documents. Mr Baudet has regularly stated that he is one and a half times as intelligent as the rest of the Chamber. Then why didn't Mr Baudet request and reveal these documents immediately at his swearing-in as a Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u160	I remember there were a number of other debates when I was sworn in as a Member of Parliament. As soon as this debate was discussed, we argued in favour of it and called for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u161	I would suggest that you continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u162	During the hearing with the board of directors...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u163	Wait a minute. Mrs Van Tongeren, you may respond to this. I know you're through interrupting, but if you're challenged, you can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u164	I would like to make the rest a personal fact. What Mr Baudet is using here is total bullshit. It can be read and heard in all sorts of places. I do not think the Groningen people were helped by a personal attack by Mr Baudet on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u165	I've been talking to a lot of Groningers lately. A recurring message is that Mrs Beckerman is considered very sincere and taken very seriously and that Mrs Van Tongeren is accused of doubles. I'm just passing it along. If I were you, I'd take advantage of it. During last week's hearing with Shell and ExxonMobil, NAM's solvency was only 4%, as NAM's billion-dollar profits have recently been distributed as dividends to Shell and ExxonMobil. Shell's board assured us that the victims can send the account to Shell if the NAM goes bankrupt. But the question is, of course, is Shell going to pay that bill? Or is Shell, like the NAM, at first endlessly chatting with lawyers about the amount of the bill and negotiating damages protocols? Does the whole circus start again from the beginning? ExxonMobil also triumphantly agreed never to let a subsidiary go bankrupt. Shell, on the other hand, let subsidiaries, similar to the NAM, go bankrupt, for example the fifty-fifty joint venture Shell had in the Rotterdam company TDF Tiofine, which Shell bankrupted at the end of 1992. The fact that Shell doesn't back down is evident from the set-up in the past. Can the Minister guarantee that Shell will be fully liable for the damage, that it will compensate for that damage for the Groningers in that case and that the bill will be paid quickly, even if the NAM goes bankrupt? Now that the Minister has his damages protocol, can he promise the Groningers that they will finally have the money in their bank account before 1 July 2018? If he can't, can he tell me when they're gonna get the money? No promises, no intentions. Results, no attempts. Damages, no damage protocols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u166	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This also brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a short five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u167	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u168	Mr. Chairman. I thank all the members of this Chamber. In some passages it became a real bombardment of questions. I'm sorry I'm just a human being. I can write fast, but sometimes I don't keep up. I've heard a lot of exhortations, too. I don't know if they're needed right now or if I need a lot of encouragement right now, but we're gonna see that. I thought I'd stick to a couple of cubes. In the first block I go into the questions about the damage protocol with everything there is. I shall deal separately with the old cases, which have also been the subject of questions. I thought it would be useful to do that in different blocks. Then I will deal with the extraction with everything around it, then with the reinforcement and finally with the negotiations on the gas building and everything around it. I'm gonna end up with the health effects. I have just said thank you to the members of this Chamber, but I am also grateful to my partners and colleagues in Groningen. That felt like a good partnership. Everyone was also willing to sit down at the table, but also in the confidence that a good discussion about the content would bring us together. That's what happened. I am also pleased that in the end I was able to give sufficient time to civil society organisations to get into it and make their own judgement. That is what I defended here in the debate at the time. I'm glad this worked out. They will say that they have just had enough time, but just enough time is enough. That is a good start, but at the same time it has made us all at the table somewhat humble. As the Members of this Chamber have already pointed out in very quick lists, there is still a lot to be done. Of course, "seeing first, then believing" applies. Trust isn't back yet. We also know that at the table. That's a fact. Even before the earthquake, there was a great deal of concern about all kinds of technical issues regarding the damage protocol. We have seen them all come along, including in the debates on the earthquake. There were also many different views, not only between the region and the Empire, but also within the region. We have been able to put that behind us, above all, by taking a fundamental step towards something that really is a new system. The system is therefore not a kind of private law system translated but implemented by the Empire. It's really more than just putting the NAM away. We have really taken a step that is not the imitation of a private law situation but with the intervention of a third party. No, we are making the big step towards a truly public-law system. Administrative law is really the better choice here than civil law. This has some important consequences, and many of the concerns of the region are also being addressed. The first is, of course, the independent form of judgment. Mr Bishop may have asked for it most explicitly, but it is reflected in all the speeches. Until now, an interested party, the NAM, has been able to influence the assessment of individual cases. That gave, especially in the sense of the Groningen people, a very unequal battle. Much of the stress and suffering comes from experiencing something that is truly felt as an unequal struggle. In the course of the years, aid structures have all come into being in this unequal struggle. These were useful aid structures, which were also advocated here in the Chamber, such as the arbitrators, the counter-expertise and the reverse burden of proof. But it remained a rather long and heavy fight, also because some aid structures only come to the end of a whole journey. That's not how it's done. I've also been sitting alone in my room in Groningen. I've said that in Groningen. The answer to that was no. We then came to the conclusion in the region that the answer was no and that it had to be changed. There can't be that unequal struggle in a public system. There must be no struggle. It must be an independent judgment by a committee which has no self-interest and which is also appointed by someone other than the one who has an interest in it. The Minister for Legal Protection has no interest other than in legal protection. He has no financial interest whatsoever. I also think it is important to ensure that independence. This has also been highlighted in the talks with the region. So it should not be the minister who does anything, who prescribes contours or procedures, makes judgments, says "here, there, not there," or declares things inadmissible. It shouldn't be the drivers from the region either. It should not be civil society organisations. Civil society organisations themselves agree on this. It shouldn't be the House of Representatives either. And it certainly shouldn't be the NAM. So these administrative contours don't fit in there either. The ludicrous of these contours can already be seen when you see that the quake at Zeerijp is partly outside the contours. What would have happened if I had determined these things administratively? Smile briefly and then cry, I guess. Next, it is the independent committee's commitment to helping the obvious cases quickly, without unnecessary hassle. The choice of procedures is really up to that committee, because procedures say a lot about ensuring legal certainty. So that is point one: independence. The second thing we get in a public system is all public guarantees. Public guarantees should, in principle, make some of these support structures unnecessary even if we do not take such a firm approach. Because in a public system there is no need to take resources on board to fight unequally. We have a decades-long tradition of public law and legal protection in the Netherlands. It has come to an enormous extent over the past few decades. I don't know if it's any better anywhere else in the world. There is an objection phase with a new assessment by other evaluators. It is possible to re-appoint an expert at the objection stage. The National Ombudsman is now empowered to look at this. We have the Council of State, the Audit Service of the Empire and the General Court of Auditors. They can all ask questions of efficiency and legality. The suspicion of evidence is a bit of a strange duck in the bite of a public system. That's not really part of it, but it's part of it now. It's still there, yes, it's still there because it's just in the law. We settle a private liability in this way. So that gap between private and public law is still in it, but to the advantage of the Groningers, because something that is in the law, you want to keep. Well, that's still in there. The third important point is the separation between the front door and the back door. There are members here who say: are you absolutely sure that the NAM will always pay for everything? Well, let's get this straight. The front door is the counter, where Groningers get their damages. Only the question should be asked whether we do justice to those Groningers. That should not have anything to do with financing on the back door. The back door is about funding. I unplugged them. That means a risk, because you're not sure in advance if it's being paid at the back door. It's not like that. But if I let justice on the front door depend on how thick the wallet is on the back, then I don't know if we're coming to credible justice here. I cut them loose and took a risk, because the willingness to pay at the back door must never be a measure of legal certainty on the front door. The NAM therefore did not sit at the table in the design of the system. In the meantime, all parties have internalised the separation between the front and the back door. I always said the back door was my problem. Today, I can say that the NAM recognises the reasonableness of this system and has stated with me on paper that it will reimburse it. There are some exceptions; where it might seem influence, they do not pay. The remuneration of the members of the committee shall not be paid by the NAM. But as far as I'm concerned, that's how it's done and how it's done. Have I been sure of that all this time? No, of course not. It's a risk, but I think that risk is part of this, because otherwise you're going to judge reasonableness with a financial perspective. All kinds of auxiliary structures in the old system come back in the new system in a new jacket. Because people had gone endlessly through a possible partial review process, we had an arbitrator. Administrative law simply provides that at an objection stage a review is to be made of a case, not in the final instance but immediately. And it provides for the possibility of new experts coming to the table. It also contains counter-expertise, even if it's called different. In public law, there is room for people to have other people look at the case by other experts. It's in there. Many speakers have pointed out that some things are not in it yet. That's right. That is true because we had two principles with the parties at the table with which we worked. First of all, we really need to get to work on these cases as quickly as possible. We can optimize the whole world, but it'll take another year. We need to get going now. And: it must be feasible. Then what's in it? All physical damage to buildings and works is included, such as residential houses and SME buildings. There are also monuments in it, as I say explicitly. I will return to the monuments later, because the roles of other departments have been asked for. In the case of monuments, that is interesting. Also the agricultural buildings are in it: the farms, the barns and the dungeons. It is true that the new cases are involved, but there are plenty of new cases now. That's all in there. Also the direct consequential damage is in it. I mention the cost of staying at home, for example because someone comes to look at the damage, or for cleaning or for an overnight stay. But it may also be property damage caused by physical damage. There is also property damage due to inconvenience. That's not in there right now. I'm not saying that's no damage, but it's just not in there right now. But property damage resulting from physical damage is in it. Irrevocable things aren't in there either. At the moment, for example, there is no damage resulting from gas extraction from the Groningen field. I expressly consider the gas storage in Norg as part of the complex of the Groningen field. Others don't. As the people present know, the Technical Committee on Soil Movement is considering whether it should be extended. That question is relevant to a final situation, but it seemed impossible for this temporary committee. Moreover, I am ahead of an opinion that I do not know yet. So the small fields, the salt extraction and the geothermal: all these soil movements are not in here. Industrial buildings and infrastructure are not yet in place. The parties involved have a much less unequal position vis-à-vis the NAM. I'm not getting ahead of myself by saying that this should always be like this or something. I'm not saying that. But that's just not in there right now. It doesn't include intangible damage. Right now, there's a lawsuit going on. It is unclear how we should now incorporate that into it. But this also applies: all damage is covered. Any damage that is damage is damage and must be compensated and dealt with in an appropriate manner. Many of these damages are likely to be: distance from the NAM, or even a decoupling from it. For others, that is less obvious. But here too: we haven't figured that out yet. However, it is important to know that schemes that are now in existence and are not in the damage protocol will continue to exist. There is, for example, the Program Groninger Barn and Stables. That is not about direct damage, because it is simply part of the protocol, but it is about giving farmers the opportunity to use the compensation for recovery to finance, for example, a new stable. It's just a settlement that's gonna last. The value increase scheme simply remains in place. The buying-in scheme and the new building scheme also remain in place. What has recently attracted the most attention is the damage you have to attribute to loss of value. There's a court ruling on that. That ruling relates initially to the NAM, but I follow this with more than ordinary interest because I do see that the damage event is driving the public direction. That's what I've caused, and I support it, but it means I'm following this with more than average interest. If you think about everyone having to be compensated for their damage at any time, you wonder how that should actually work. Is it some kind of click fund, where you're compensated for value reductions but you don't have to pay for increases in value? Or is it once a year? What is it, anyway? Without further thought, this is quite impossible. So it leads to a lot of uncertainty in people. Here too, we still have a duty to come up with something that will give people clarity. Just... what's the deal now? Many Groningers say that to me as well: whether we are always compensated for everything is verse one, but make sure you have clarity. I'd love to hear that, because that's what it starts with, of course. This is now quite unfeasible. I said at the table with my administrative colleagues that before this dossier can be brought forward, we should have an understanding of how this would be feasible first of all, as public authorities among ourselves. After that, we will be able to determine much more precisely how to do this. I have already announced this, because there is no time to waste. Groninger's right to clarity here too. So I'm going to ask some sort of committee of wise men, people who know how to do this. This will not be the only place in the world or in the Netherlands where depreciation plays, but we need to be clear about how this should be carried out. This also means that certain provisions remain, but are not below that point of contact. The Safe Living Centre also has a role in other areas. That remains, but ultimately it is the intention, an ambition, to achieve as much as possible a one-stop shop. That was also expressed in the coalition agreement. But as I said, this is an intermediate position. I'm gonna have to give some color to that intermediate position. That's what I did in Groningen. Look, there's no such thing as that window I'm talking about. Zero, nothing. There's nothing. I do not agree to do so later in the old office of a subcontractor of Shell, led by people who did so at the time, with only people who did so at the time and with the models used so far. I do not agree with that, but of course I do have a lot of trouble with that. It means we have to build an organization from the ground up. That's what we're doing right now. The sweat is in our hands, because you would usually take a year for that. If you prepare that very well, you can also design the whole customer treatment completely. Of course, this is not about customers... and ensure that people are treated in a proper way and that the process is optimal. You could take a year for that, but we don't. So we just drew a stripe in the sand together and that came out March 19th. Is that responsible? No. Do we really have a lot of room to do it later? In all honesty, I don't. We're just gonna do everything we can. There's a team really busy at great speed. We also call it our military operation. But I just know it won't go well in all cases. That is probably not going to work and in Groningen we agreed with me that we should be as clear as possible. We're also going to ask for feedback from the people who've been involved. We're gonna see how it can be improved. It's a trial, and I don't have an alternative, but a year's wait, as the protocols say, just can't. So here too, we'll have to do it the way it goes. As far as I'm concerned, that's just a date. And we did. This is about the damage protocol so far, for the cases after 31 March 2017, but the old cases are also a concern. In the old cases, there's a very colourful variety. Those have also fallen with a history. There's a whole sub-segmentation in there in all sorts of ways. We see it as unrealistic to take it on board immediately. We just don't think that's gonna work. We were quite united about that at the table. Also this was not a negotiation, but really a co-production with the people at the table. That committee is not ready for that by far. These people just need a solution right now. Otherwise, that would take a year. So I went into consultation with NAM. We didn't make the agreement that NAM would continue to do this for a while; we didn't. In the end, NAM explicitly undertook to do this in a different way. This means, therefore, that the funds already available for this purpose, because there is simply liability, and the resources were available under 'clean slate', will be supplemented by an additional 50 million, on top of that. We have, of course, asked ourselves whether that is enough. With the NCG with its statistics as an advisor at the table and on the basis of the data we had, we have honestly made the estimate that that should be sufficient. But at the same time we have established that we are not sure, because we cannot know for sure. We're not psychic. We don't know exactly what anyone's entitled to. We don't have that as clear as we'd like. That's why I'll be in touch with NAM every month to see how it goes. How's the customer treatment going? How is the fixing of the amounts going? How's the volume? Because we want those cases dealt with appropriately on 1 July. I can easily predict that there are also cases that turn out to be very complicated or that do not make themselves heard because of circumstances. All of that can happen. But here too, it just fits to set a date. Those are the appointments with NAM. Furthermore, NAM will also measure how the respondents experience the treatment. I'd like to have an insight into that. By the way, the arbitrators simply continue to deal with the issues they are working on. Nothing gets pulled away from arbiters. It's kind of crowded, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u169	I would actually suggest that you finish the subject of 'old cases' first. Then the MPs will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u170	It's got all the cases in it, including the houses in shacks. In principle, the people who sit with the arbitrator simply complete that trajectory. People who did not vote for the arbitrator at the time should receive a generous proposal from NAM. We'll keep an eye on that. For people who, at the time, somehow got between ship and ship and whose case was closed, but who, in retrospect, actually felt that they were not in some way in a position not to end the case, there is a kind of hardness clause to give the old cases and the difficult cases access to the new system. That was done to keep complicated cases away from this procedure. That means that agricultural companies are also in it. In particular, Mrs Dik-Faber has asked very intensely about this. They're in the protocol that deals with all new cases. This also means that the old cases of this target group must be solved by the NAM. I will draw special attention to this at the NAM, because they are very complex cases. This has to be done in a proper way. In my monthly conversations with NAM I will pay attention to this. It is expressly not the case that the outskirts are rejected a priori. That's not the deal. All these people are spoken to in reasonable consultation. There are people in the outskirts who have at least had to wait a long time. An appropriate solution must also be found for this. It is initially up to NAM to find that appropriate solution with newly found generosity. It is up to me to assess as best as possible on the basis of the monthly conversation whether this is done properly. Mr President, these were the old cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u171	Then I'll go first to Mrs. Agnes Mulder, because it was there first and I sent it away with my non-verbal look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u172	Yeah, you looked pretty strict. And, of course, I sat down right away. Suppose people don't have a fiduciary in dealing with the damage caused by the NAM. Can they still apply to the new temporary committee? I'd like to offer people a choice of their own. We already hear stories from people who get a proposal that the dogs don't like. And that gives so little hope. If you get such a bad proposal, you should at least have the opportunity to apply to that temporary committee. Apologies for my hoarse voice, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u173	Of course, that was also a wish of the people sitting at the table to put this together, but we did not see the possibility. There is a hardness clause for the people who somehow... I am thinking of people whose file has really been declared wrongly or by circumstances as closed. There are people who struggled with deaths, while their files were suddenly closed. That's a bit of a hardness clause. Look, I also hear people saying they get proposals where the dogs don't like bread. I hear other, slightly more covert terms, by the way. But it could be the same cases. I have agreed with the NAM that an attempt is being made to make the dogs eat bread, to work in a different way. They haven't started that yet. That's from now on. That deal was confirmed today. I have received a letter on this subject; if it is right, I have forwarded it to the Chamber, because that was my express wish. So I'd really like to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u174	Excuse me, I haven't been able to take that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u175	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u176	But can the Minister at least promise us that he will keep a list of names of people who say: I want to be dealt with by that new committee, because I have had a proposal that I really cannot deal with. Otherwise, these people will fall again, even though we have made such a nice step forward. I would also like to give the Groningen people who are now outside the new temporary committee the same step at a time when there really is a need there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u177	Unfortunately, there's tension here between what we all want and what we can do. I really have to warn you, this window is in the embryonic phase. This can't be. It can't be. We are really coming to the conclusion that this cannot be achieved. We can't do it. We're gonna let the NAM do it another way. There is a very substantial extra budget for that. And we're gonna keep an eye on that, too. If there are problems after that or it is still stuck and we really think that unhonourable things are happening, then we are going to do something. But let's just get this over with. I'm seeing some really big problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u178	Same thing. I walked from the Malieveld to the Lower House a bit when the minister had been in a tractor. I spoke to a woman who's been living next door to her house for three and a half years in a self-built stand. She is in a legal battle with the NAM about the value of the property. Eventually, she was in tears and desperate. Her case dates from before March 31, the date in question, and goes along with the big story of the NAM. The Minister now says to the Chamber: I have two things for you: extra money and a date. But is that really going to help this lady?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u179	That could be a good idea. Of course, there is the choice to continue the civil procedure, but there is also the choice to await the generous offer of the NAM and assess it on its merits. Once again, new agreements have been made. You can also read that in the letter sent by the NAM. But it's also something I'm going to talk to NAM about every month. But I need to keep an eye on what's possible. No one, not even in this arena, has ever been happy with promises that we cannot deliver, because that radiates on everyone here. If I put all the cases together here and put them right on the roof of this window, then we just won't make it. That's a pretty serious call. I'm doing what we can, and it's going one step at a time. I know there's still a lot to be done. I have already said that it humbles those present at the table. We're not here yet. All calls are all justified, but I have to stick to what is a serious assessment of what we can do now. In the new cases we make this extreme effort and for that we do everything we can. In the old cases, someone else is going to do everything with a different look and a different budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u180	Of course I do not want to ask the Minister the impossible, but he also says that there is another look and another budget. Based on what I've read so far, I just don't have that confidence yet. I want to trust it, but I just can't believe it yet. A woman said to me: I've been fighting with the NAM for three and a half years, with legal proceedings. The difference is too big; they don't come out together. She's up, really exhausted and in tears. She did her story to me and then I think: I really want to believe that the NAM now has put on a different pair of glasses and bring a bag of money to her, but that's not how it works in the real world, is it? What gives the Minister, and ultimately me, the confidence that it will really be solved for this woman and all those other people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u181	Let me put it this way: we have made firm agreements. I have also just agreed with the company that I will interfere with that myself and that I want to get an insight into the cases. It's a little sneaky when I start meddling in individual cases. Even though my hands are itching, I really shouldn't. Actually, we all think that would be nice for once, but I really don't dare. I'd say give this a chance. It is a limited period of time, the budget has increased considerably, the approach has increased and the intentions have really changed. I would like to give this a chance, even though we simply do not see a chance to fish all this in the new window. I can't do that, and I can't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u182	The Minister says: new glasses and a new budget. I also read this afternoon's letter very quickly. But still, the minister wants to get 6,000 cases with the NAM in less than six months. He wants to do that, while the relationship between the NAM and many of the people who have been struggling with the NAM for a long time consists of distrust. There is so much distrust and so much bad experience that it is going to take a while before that relationship can be restored at all and you can talk about a solution. I think it is very ambitious to want all this done before that date. The minister says, "I'm gonna talk to NAM about this every month." I would actually ask him to simply inform the Chamber in two months' time about how that is going, so that we, as the Chamber, can now give the Minister the opportunity to make a good effort here. But if things are really not going well, then as a Chamber we can also pull the brakes and possibly still enforce a different regime for those cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u183	I understand Mr Jetten's question and that he would like to be kept informed, regardless of whether this other arrangement is feasible by then. Let me try to give a personal impression about this in the middle of that period, a self-contained impression of how I think it is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u184	Not only a part of the Chamber but also the NAM has no confidence that they can, because in their letter of 7 February they write a whole piece about the settlement of damages themselves. The NAM writes that she is now at a distance, but also: the gas company NAM was simply not good at that either. That is to say, in damages. And now, with the difficult cases, they have to get good at it! I have little confidence in that, and I would suggest to the Minister that we look at the arbitrators, who have confidence in them. Isn't it a possibility to switch it on a large scale? Furthermore, we still have the court in the Netherlands. There is an amendment adopted by Mrs Van Tongeren for two tonnes for legal aid for the Groningen people. Couldn't these old cases claim those two tons if they wanted to? Then they can go to court with backup. And can the other people go to the arbitrator?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u185	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u186	The NAM herself says, in her own letter, that she can't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u187	Let's think more carefully if things don't work out. This is also the subject of my commitment to Mr Jetten that I will give my impression of how well things are going. But first let's give the organization the chance to live up to its good intentions, which are really different than before. Again, we're holding the finger on the wrist. We're not gonna find out if it went well on July 1st. We need to get the impression that that's going to happen sooner. But I don't see much alternatives. To start a lot of legal proceedings again... The two tonnes are still on the bar, because that is the money carefully reserved by Mrs Van Tongeren. As soon as that can get a destination, I'll go over it in consultation and under consideration how best to do it. It's all not gone. It does have a different function in a public system, I say, but the money is still there. But let's try this first. That would really be my call. I'll keep an eye on it. As I said, after two months, I'm sending a letter about it with my impression of how it's going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u188	The 6,000 cases are 1,000 a month, something like 30 a day. What is the big problem of at least giving people the chance to go to court in the Netherlands? For the new system, I fully support the Minister. But the majority of the Chamber has said that the two tons are there to let Groningers who want to do so get their rights from the courts; the basis of democracy. Why would this minister not want to give those people that opportunity, when money is reserved for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u189	I can never stand in the way of anyone going to court. I can't do that. But I wouldn't invite those people to go to court. I would like to invite those people to look forward to the proposal first with understanding and interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u190	Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u191	Everyone gets to go to court. That's not the point. But we don't really want these people to go to court. We want it to be resolved. Let's take a look at it. Let us give it a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u192	Mrs. Nijboer... What do I say, Mrs Beckerman, and then Mr Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u193	We work well together!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u194	Yeah, I see. That partnership's going well. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u195	I think this is gonna hurt a lot. The old cases are those thousands of people who have been waiting for so long, who sometimes live in a container behind their house, or who live in a shed behind their house. First give the NAM a chance... They've had that chance so many times already! This is a really big point for us. But what about, for example, the people who accepted that voucher, people who were really at an end and said: then we accept it? Are they going to get another offer now? A lot of these people will have wrongly had far too little money. Does that apply to those people, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u196	Look, it's weird to re-examine the people who have already accepted something. There are people whose files are called "one-sided closed." For them there is the possibility of using the hardness clause if they have a good reason for how that happened. But there are 80,000 old cases. I do not think we should have the pretence that we can repeat these 80 000 cases. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u197	No, some of the mistakes of the past can no longer be made up for, but some still can. We have often mentioned it here: 10,000 people are sick, sickened, especially by this system. Can we not make an ultimate effort so that some of those people, at least the people who have accepted such a voucher but who were actually entitled to more, are now eligible for the compensation they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u198	I do not see a chance to include cases of which the case has already been settled. No, I just can't. We have to be realistic. I know I didn't do it all at once. I know that. We discussed this with the region. Everyone was at the table. We've been dubbing all over it. The arguments here are really not new, we have passed them on. But we must continue in a way that can be done. And if NAM achieves this change, these cases are dealt with and treated in a different way than hitherto.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u199	I was in the exact same place three weeks ago. Then I asked the Minister: can it not be the outcome that we settle for the new cases but that it is not settled for the old ones? In response, the Minister said: I still have to discuss it, but it would disappoint me if I were; I see that there is a great deal of concern in the Chamber that these people have been stuck and have been busy for years and that it is not going to be okay. I have one specific question. Ms Beckerman mentioned in her contribution the case of the Zwarberg couple in which the NAM appealed. I marked a couple myself in Scheemda. That's where the case was declared inadmissible by the NAM this week because of the contour line. That doesn't give any confidence in a different attitude. Those people are already murww, they've been in trouble for four or five years, they're stuck. Those last people are already elderly. How does this relate to that "different attitude" and the 50 million and the "we're going to help them"? That's right...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u200	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u201	I would say that this is the first issue, at the top of the agenda when you speak to the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u202	I received the letter on the NAM's commitment today. I'll talk to them as soon as possible about how they want to make it happen. But let's give that a chance. We are here under steam and boiling water building an organization that does not yet exist. There is now a property rented in the city of Groningen, but we also know that we should just be in the region. There isn't yet. Support points in the region are not yet available either. Trained people aren't here yet. The different procedures on how to do justice to people quickly still need to be developed. I don't have everything on offer. I started somewhere. That also lives in Groningen very much. We know this is a start. It's not the end. All wishes here in this Chamber: I understand them. They're all on the agenda. I'm sympathetic about it. I'm not against it. I'd have wanted it to be different. But we do have to do things that we have a good chance of doing. And that's what I'm doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u203	But the minister can appeal to the NAM, given these agreements: stop the broken litigation of ordinary, good people. They keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u204	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u205	I have another question about the progressive protocol. You said that the intangible damage might be compensated. That's what I heard on television. There are also other gas fields. We can't talk about that right now, but it has to be compensated, of course. There'll be a commission for the fall in value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u206	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u207	How are we supposed to see that in time? When are people in Assen or Emmen, people who have to close their shops because they need to be renovated and the damage is not yet settled for sure? When's it gonna be a little bit done? Is it being expanded? How am I supposed to imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u208	It's definitely gonna be expanded. We are now working on the final situation. This final situation will also have to have a legal basis. Then we must also have methods for those other types of damage. Because "value drop"; I give it to you to do... I have a lot of confidence in Mr Nijboer, but if we sit for it for an afternoon, we are not out yet. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u209	Otherwise, we have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u210	My respect for him sounds generous, but we don't do this together. Look, even in the previous debate, I was asked all the time: when, when, when, when? I'm not alone at the table. Things I don't know are hard to determine when I do. We're really hard at work here. The people who are sitting in the back of a room today looking to see if I might remember one question, have already worked three weekends. Every night they're sweet with it. The letters I have just sent have been negotiated some time in the evening. They're working very hard on it. But I suck at prophecy. I suck at prophecy. I can point out the direction: in the end, they are all covered. All that damage. And that is a wish that we fully share here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u211	Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u212	The only thing I can't, well, besides all the hundred thousand things I can't... but witches is one of the things on that list. The Chamber doesn't expect me to. Okay, about the old cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u213	Before you continue, Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u214	I want to go back to that tough line of March 31, 2017 and the complete lack of trust of the NAM. The Minister says it really can't be done. What's it gonna take to make it work? Because don't forget that the rigging of the building, if it costs money, is actually part of the earthquake damage. Maybe you could claim some of that too from the NAM and the Shell. But I would like to hear from the Minister what it takes to make it possible for those old damages cases to simply report to the counter if they wanted to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u215	Well, it's probably gonna take two years, and we shouldn't. In order to reassure Mrs Sazias, it is, of course, all cases where the NAM is responsible for the damage. That's not up for discussion here. This is only about how we ensure that clarity and justice for these people are achieved as quickly as possible. My estimate is that we are doing this by asking the NAM with a completely new approach, but also another wallet to solve this. At the same time, we are beginning to build that window, which must be practically operational on 19 March. That's my assessment, which was shared at the board table. So here's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u216	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u217	Then the winnings. Let me be clear: the SodM advice is simply being implemented. I'm not gonna put ifs and buts on that, either. We're gonna do this. The Loppersum clusters are already closed. That is also a milestone. There are all measures in the opinion on fluctuations. They're studying hard on that right now. Of course, we're sticking to that, too. It is also considered whether this will in theory allow for further reduction of extraction, because in some cases fluctuations are limited while in others there is more space. First there was a space of 20% of fluctuation across the field, while now there is a space of 50% for each of the individual wells. That may mean that we are again able to win less in volume, in a responsible way. That's what we're looking at. We're also moving to 12 billion as soon as possible. I see this as an assignment, where "as soon as possible" is an explicit part of the mission. Not a bad word about that. We're watching that. We also said straight away that we are not going to steer at a point, as we always did with mining decisions, so that you could reach that point in a warm summer. No, if it's a hot summer, you're gonna be lower. The pointer is on "as little as possible." It is getting cold for a while now, so perhaps it is disappointing, but it is expected that this year too may mean a lower level of extraction. There has also been talk of the closure of the Eemskana cluster. That was not advice from the SodM, as one of the speakers said, but an idea from NAM. The SodM is now assessing whether that is possible. If that's possible, I'll take that advice too. I'm mapping out all the possibilities to reduce demand for low-caloric gas. That happened before the quake, but then of course it went as an opportunity to hold back when something would go wrong, while it is now just the mainstream of the activity. For example, it is a question of speeding up the conversion of large consumers. They've been heavily appealed to. Remarkably, I often hear support and understanding and possibilities from all kinds of individual companies. There are also companies that say they want to, but that they run into some legal or regulatory restrictions. With siren and flashing light on it, that's the story. Branch associations have spoken a little more critically about this, perhaps because they believe that they represent their members. But I hear everywhere that nobody thinks this is a strange request. It's customization. There's a whole team on it to see what's going on with all these companies. Often it means building infrastructure, in some cases pipelines that are more than significant, but that just has to be done. That's mandatory on the department's menu. There are contacts with abroad at all levels. I am also really talking to colleagues about this. Yeah, they're really worried too. They are, but they think along. There too, teams sit together at all levels to see what is possible. That's not about contracts. Contracts don't matter here. It's about physical dependencies. Contracts aren't leading here as far as I'm concerned. Once again, I confirm that the nitrogen plant is a serious option. I find "end of March" flying. Mrs Beckerman has another idea about that. Maybe she'll start the count somewhere else. Anyway, I'll come up with an integral picture at the end of March. Of course, we also have domestic private demand. First of all, we have all kinds of sustainability statements. I have already announced that we are also going to look at the sale of gas appliances. That's very obvious. Mrs Van Tongeren asked me what I think of the report. Well, I had to look through that in a hurry. At least I saw the hunt on the tour. There are only sensible things in it. It reminds me of my colleague Mr Blok. It has written in its name Sjors the hose, with knitting patterns included. That's not the curiosity we need to talk about here. These are serious options, but we can't force them all now. The real solution is, of course, that we allow the municipalities to make heat plans and that people do more radical things and are helped in doing so. You can still help them with a draft hose. But how people get their house off the gas requires more than enthusiasm and a website. That's gonna take door-to-door guidance. Those are the big buttons. A national competition 'how can the extraction go down' has been written, and I am pleased to say so. One of the most enthusiastic participants is here before me, for which I am grateful. They're looking at all these things. I've become curious about the nitrogen plants abroad. We thought we knew the nitrogen plants abroad, whether or not they were in the contracts or in the relationships, including those just across the border. The assessments of what that might mean are very different for the time being. There is an installation just across the border in Germany that is really built for peak installations. It can't deliver 70 million tonnes of sugar. That's very limited. There are also installations in Germany where you have to supply a truck. We thought we had them in our sights. But every time Mrs Van Tongeren makes a serious suggestion to me, I tend to check it out. I'll do the same in this case. Let us put it this way: there is a clear mission to map everything and work with everything. All kinds of suggestions have been made about storage capacity and I have received all kinds of suggestions about transmission capacity. Storage and transmission do not produce gas and do not consume gas, so the possibilities are limited. It could be capacity-building balance sheets at most and not substantial volume. But again, everything will be taken. Special attention calls for the opening of the NOS Journal with a story that everyone immediately thinks: something is not right here! I found a letter from my predecessor from 2016. Yet it has been looked at again. Look, French companies I don't mention here have a contract. In some cases they need high-caloric gas and the contracts do not distinguish between that gas in all respects. They could then call off low-caloric gas and process it in such a way that it becomes high-caloric gas to meet their needs. That's not how it works on the gas market. There will be swapping. This means that the need for high caloric is also delivered in high caloric and not in low caloric. So that swapping is there. However, there are many points in the European network where all kinds of species are mixed together. This means that there is indeed a limited amount of low-caloric gas for mixing reasons, but that's really another reason, sometimes added to high-caloric. But that too is part of the investigation, because that too is a pity and a sin. So we're really all doing that. That is also what these discussions are about with the foreign colleagues. Well, about that. I feel obliged to report at the end of March what "as soon as possible to twelve" means. In that letter, at least the word "twelve" will appear, but also the path to it. But it also contains the scenarios for the period after that, because who says we want to sit on twelve afterwards? The Court should also have an insight into the possibilities of further reducing it afterwards. The things contained in that letter will therefore be used again as a basis for the mining decision which I have to take further because the Council of State has asked me to do so. Mrs Van Tongeren specifically asked whether extra gas had been produced just before the blow. The answer to that must be no. That would not be apparent from the states that have been kept up to date. By the way, they can also be found. The report following Zeerijp also contains this information. Then the question was: the seismic activity was already higher before the quake; why doesn't the SodM do anything about it? It was actually put in a more friendly way, but I am always a little less friendly than Mrs Van Tongeren. But that was actually her question. That's what happened. That's what we've been looking at. We have also been asked to report, because that is how it works. Then NAM is asked to report. That report has been filed. Before SodM could do anything with it, the quake came. That was not the most pleasant moment for the spokesmen here in this Chamber, nor for myself. This is about bringing down the extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u218	A lot of the Minister's answers are encouraging. My biggest problem is with GTS. Over all the years, he's been writing reports that the Chamber got. That's what we believed at the time. A lot of the options that this minister would like to look at now were not looked at then, they are not involved. So my personal belief in GTS isn't that high. For example, there has also been a message from the Gas Storage Netherlands Association that there are more possibilities. So this is not entirely new information. For example, the nitrogen plant in the Botlek...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u219	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u220	... you can use to fill the gas storage slowly, especially in the summer. That didn't happen either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u221	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u222	So is the Minister willing to have GTS, but with the figures on the table, validate independently not as it is now done by DNV GL in a conversation, but really looking at the figures or turning that off independently, for example at TNO?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u223	Oh, yeah. This has to be done in a proper way. But it's not just GTS. Also people from the department are busy to really speak to the customers, but also to abroad. That's not all GTS. Teams from the department are behind that too. We just need to know what's going on. This must be modelled in a credible way. I'm not going to preach any wisdom that I don't have in the house about who should validate what and who should calculate what. We just need to know how fast it can go down in all dimensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u224	I have been sitting here in ten gas debates with the previous minister, who said the same thing: this is security of supply and that is the only way. I would like to give this Minister the benefit of the doubt, but after having received ten reports which now appear to be incorrect, I would like to encourage the Minister to make a slightly harder statement than: we are looking at it carefully; trust me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u225	I'll take that as a warning. What I cannot judge, what I do not want to make a single statement about, but which I do not want to pretend to agree to by keeping quiet, are the statements Mrs van Tongeren is referring to. I don't know him. I have had little time to worry about the past either. So I don't want to confirm or deny that something would or wouldn't have knocked. But her warning is welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u226	I wanted to ask a question about the past and a question about the future. You don't answer all my questions about the past. I asked you a question about the ruling of Jan de Jong, former inspector-general of the SodM: "What the previous cabinet did is ruthless. I gave an advice at the beginning of 2013 and after that the gas extraction did not decrease but went to an almost record high." What do you think of the phrase "discreetly"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u227	What does the mistress think of the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u228	I did not go into that, for which I apologize; that is true. I leave Mr. De Jong's remarks to himself. I have no independent judgment on that. Again, I have had limited time to dive into the past at all. I did do so on one point, namely my introduction to the previous Inspector-General, who assured me that the Mare "around twelve" was not an opinion of SodM, but was about what the level should be to win safely. I took the advice. It doesn't say that either. Well, it says there's gotta be a gas extraction down there. I know that my predecessor has started a very large number of investigations to see how that should be done. I have not been able to go beyond that; I have to admit that. I do know that eight more SodM opinions came after that. The eighth was recent, but there are seven others. In many cases, there are numbers in there about what we should go back to. In June 2015 we had to go back to 30, in December 2015 to 27, in May 2016 to 24, in April 2017 to 21,6. All these advices have been carried out. This means that in the end something happened with the 2013 opinion that it had to go down, because gas extraction has since gone down by 60%. Mrs Beckerman from the concern that gas extraction in that year was highest. There was then a permit that allowed 49. I didn't go into the fine prints there either, but in the Acts of I think March or February 2014 you can read that my predecessor explained that all this was within the then permit. At the same time, he hinted that he had wanted that to go down afterwards. He even used some firm terms for that. In short, these opinions have all been followed. Is that okay? Should we have done that differently? With the knowledge of today, it is safe to say that it could have been otherwise. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u229	This seems to me to be a good subject for the parliamentary inquiry. We've got code red because of that. Partly because of that, we have code red. For a year, in Groningen, code red. That is why I would like to ask you again. You're inventorying things now. There are already examples coming along that we may be able to use quickly or directly. Then why are we going to wait until March, May, June, September before we start using them? You were just excited about the companies. You were enthusiastic about the possibilities of restricting exports. Then why wait if we have code red now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u230	Oh, no, there's no waiting. I call it corporate customization. If a company now says "I want to get rid of the gas," it can. We've already released the point estimate. We're not betting on 21.6 anymore. In the letter, the estimate is half to two billion cubic metres less. What we can do now, we're doing now. But for some more drastic things you want to look at the package as a whole. If a company says "we want to get rid of the gas," I'll give them a medal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u231	I would just like to go back to the scenarios that we are going to get with all these measures and the combination. I hear the Minister say that this will be a path in which 12 billion is the central task. I would just like to know what the other considerations and conditions are. How is it sent to the Chamber in a minute? That's how it's gonna be: this is the path; that's how we're gonna do it? Is there a pass-through? Are there any choices, scenarios or buttons that can be turned on and what we are going to debate? Where does the minister work now? What can we expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u232	What matters in the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber is that I'm supposed to arrange it and tell the Chamber how I'm going to do it. The room controls me in there. If a broad majority in the Chamber thinks all this is a bit of a weak bite, then it is up to me to see how I can do it and whether I listen to it and to you again to determine whether I'm worth a snipe. That's how it's gonna be. I'm gonna bet on that. But I say one thing: one thing is not part of the consideration; that 12 is a 12 and as soon as possible is as soon as possible. There may be some social assessments in this regard. You don't want 200 companies going bankrupt all of a sudden, but we need to speed things up. That's how I see it. In that sense, therefore, I see it as more of an extreme effort than a trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u233	I see Mrs Yeşilgöz having doubts. You can come back to it later. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u234	I understand that the Minister is working hard to solve the problems and does not look too backwards in files and I do not know what. Still, this is important. The former director of State surveillance of the Mines said: the cabinet made a ruthless decision; the cabinet decided that gas extraction could be increased just after the great earthquake in Huizinge, while the cabinet had launched an investigation to see how as little gas as possible could be extracted and the damage reduced. That has to be explained precisely in the Chamber. I was in the room then. We had those tests back then. We wanted to know how many suppliers there were and so on. I was furious when I heard this. How was that possible? If the cabinet has decided that, then the minister really has a problem. It is quite different if the NAM has decided that on the basis of existing contracts, which is also scandalous, than as rulers, whom we must control, have agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u235	I can make a very lively presentation of what it looks like when Mr Nijboer is furious. My predecessor addressed this issue in 2014. That can be read in the Acts. It's kind of pissy to say that. If I'd had it with me, I'd have read it. This has been debated. This is something that is firmly established, and in it it is explained. I wasn't mentally involved with that, just to put it bluntly. I had other things to do back then. But it is not true that this is a great mystery so far, because this has been discussed extensively with this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u236	But it does matter. It does matter whether the cabinet wanted to reduce gas extraction, which was also reported to the Chamber, and did research into how and what and the deadlines. There was a lot of uncertainty about that, so the Chamber agreed. Has the NAM, based on existing contracts, taken the maximum space or has the cabinet really decided? That really matters. Prime Minister Rutte definitely denied that last week, so I assume that's true. I expect the Minister of Economic Affairs to do the same, instead of saying: well, that's what happened and I don't really remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u237	No, no, but I'm not saying that at all. I say that we do, because this very important point has been discussed. My predecessor made it clear what was going on. But since I do not have the text in front of me, I am not going to repeat it, because then I may be rewriting parliamentary history. My predecessor has, as far as I am concerned, explained clear terms to the Chamber. That's what happened. I don't have the exact number of the Acts et cetera, but it did. I am not denying that it is politically important, but I am simply saying that I cannot repeat the text and that I am not going to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u238	I am looking at Mr Jetten, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u239	I have another point, so if Mrs Beckerman wants to continue on this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u240	How do you know that? Mrs Beckerman, your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u241	The minister called a little for help, because he didn't have the documents. I got 'em. In February 2014, then Minister Kamp said about not intervening after the SodM's opinion: "I decided not to do so and wait for a decision to be taken." In 2015 he said something about this: "During the Chamber debate on 5 February 2014 on gas extraction in Groningen, I indicated that in 2013 I was constantly aware of developments in gas extraction in the Groningenveld." So he said that he was constantly informed and that he had made the decision not to intervene. Those are the Acts the Minister was looking for. That is in stark contrast to the statements now that we have not actually known, that we have not made any decisions about it and that we unfortunately knew too late. That hurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u242	I'm not saying that we knew something too late and that no decision has been made. I'm not saying any of that. I say that the Minister for Economic Affairs once explained how it was possible that, with a mining licence of 49 billion cuub, 54 billion cuub finally came out. There are several explanations for that. In my opinion, there are three, all of which are not political or administrative decisions, but they are physical dependence and gas consumption. That's the explanation I found, but I don't have it at hand and I can't find it right now either. I'm not making any judgments about what happened. I refer only to my predecessor, who once, in my view, spoke clear language about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u243	I would like to return to the letter we received in March on the phasing-out plan for gas. I'm talking about expectations management. In that letter, does the Minister 'in a month you get the plan from business and in a month so much the plan for abroad', or does that letter in March actually contain a number of concrete steps with companies that have already submitted concrete plans or countries with which we have made deals on reduction? That is what I am asking for for the management of expectations, so that it is clear what debate we will have in March if the letter is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u244	You are now asking me for the outline of a letter that is not yet available. This Chamber has nothing to do with the concrete plans of concrete companies, because there are too many of them. It will therefore be necessary to outline in order sizes what each of the trajectories should provide roughly with a description of when those numbers become more precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u245	For clarity. I do not agree with Mrs Beckerman that it must all be done faster than at the end of March. I am happy to give the Minister the opportunity to write a good letter on this in a month and a half, but I would like to say that I will be disappointed if that letter is in March, in particular, a letter of formal notice. Then the Minister should be able to manage the expectations now when the end of March is too soon to be able to really announce new steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u246	I think Mr Jetten does not know me as a great lover of procedural letters and on the other hand he knows that I cannot witches, so we may have to look for it in bandwidths.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u247	Please continue. Your fourth point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u248	I'll be on backup. The reinforcement operation has now been bombed into the new hobby of the board team sitting there. It's full of ambition. I've said before that there are all kinds of things we're looking at to see if we can do better. This is about customer handling, the lead time, the clarity that people get during the journey and the right to self-determination. With me still haunting the words of the Groninger who told me: tomorrow I hear what is going to happen to my home. Then I slipped out that I'd never heard anyone talk so distantly about his own place. Then apparently the feeling that you have no control over that at all. At least that feeling needs to get people back. We also have high levels of convergence with other societal challenges, such as sustainability, ageing, shrinkage and growth. All this must be dealt with in a kind of regional area vision. It is my intention to detach that from the NAM in the same, rather radical way. That has yet to be worked out; we are still working on it. I'm not doing this on my own. My colleagues in Groningen also have a word to say about this. We'll do that together. So I do not want to be too absolute in this, because I do not want to get in the way of anyone, but it would certainly be in line with the logic that we are going to organise this in a similar way. It must be embedded in the vision of the future. It must also say something about landscape value, education and the labour market. Those are all things that need to come back to that. I would like to reassure Mrs Van Tongeren a little bit, hopefully, that the scheme will be demolished if the costs of recovery and strengthening are at a certain level. Demolition and new construction come above such a value as an option in the picture, but in the end that still has to be discussed with the owner. It is the owner who should ultimately continue to determine what happens to his home. In municipal and national monuments, that is a completely different point anyway. That is, by the way, a particular concern of Mrs Dik-Faber. She says very graphically: "Don't let Groningen disappear." I hadn't heard it that beautiful. We must, of course, pay attention to cultural heritage in our approach to strengthening. That is what is happening now, and it must be done in the new approach. The basis for this is the heritage programme of the municipalities, the province, OCW and the NCG. That's how we do it now. "Groningen must stay Groningen"; that's what it's called in the program. In the coalition agreement, therefore, it was agreed that the Erfgoedstoop and the Erfgoedsadviesteam would be continued. In fact, this is one of the things the cabinet is doing much more widely. I will say something about this later, because someone asked for it. Actually, I liked that question. That's what my OCW colleagues are after. They really feel responsible. It is also felt in the region that OCW regards this as an important responsibility. I'm telling you, I don't know if I think the reference to the building in the Zandt is a happy one. If that comes to me, of course, I'm gonna look into it. I read the same thing, so I went to see it, too. In 't Zandt a village vision has been made, in which the demographic developments and the reinforcement operation have a place. That village vision came about in consultation with the city council of Loppersum and the inhabitants of 't Zandt. In that village vision, it says that six senior homes must be built there. The municipality has asked the NAM to demolish the building, not the other way around. The building is not a national monument and not a municipal monument. It is not designated by the municipality as characteristic or image-defining. As a result of the fuss, the municipality has postponed the request for demolition, but this is not the best example of a situation on which you can say: here the NAM does, anyway, with all these monuments. So I don't know if this is the best example. Apart from that, apart from the casusism... I am always the first to bring it up... it remains true that Groningen should not disappear. Groningen needs to stay in Groningen, and this needs to get a place in the program. Then there is one other thing that relates to this subject, namely the article on the'sale penalty'. That's even mentioned in Mr. Alder's picture, while he may not have invented that sale ticket himself. But that's what happens when you're so prominent there. Payback of what is called the "value jump" is not the issue of fortified houses. That's not what the value jump is about. The so-called "sale penalty"... I think it's a bad word, but I'll take it from here anyway. I'm gonna get my ass kicked, but at least we'll all know what we're talking about. The partial refund of the value gap applies only to new construction. Here's how it's done. The house is newly built. It's more valuable because of the new building. You can see it like this: the owner had bad luck and damage at first, but then he got the increase in value as a result of compensation for the damage. If the house has become more than 10% worth, then something has to be paid for. This is intended to prevent speculation and disruption of the housing market. This has been agreed by the region, in addition to the 2015 governance agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u249	Mrs. Van Tongeren, I see you standing there, I see you writing, and I see you looking at your phone. However, I would suggest that the Minister conclude this matter first. Then you will have the opportunity to ask the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u250	I would like to make one more comment on this point and then this block is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u251	I'd like to suggest you finish this quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u252	Yes. I would like to make one more comment on this and then this block is ready. We're gonna revisit the whole reinforcement call. It is not illogical that this also comes along and that you get another chance to think about whether you think this is reasonable. But this has been agreed by the region. There were arguments for that. I don't know if those arguments came from my party, but I'm kind of in favour of this. This has been found to be an agreement in the history of the reinforcement by the parties. If there are new balancing moments coming along, which is obvious, then it can be looked at again. But I wouldn't want to give it the evil smell it's gotten, because it's come about in order. After that, you can have all kinds of ideas about it. Mr President, so far about the reinforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u253	Your last question, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u254	We keep getting apps and e-mails from people watching. One I get is about the Q&As on the National Government site or the National Coordinator Groningen. I quote. The question is: "I am negotiating with the NAM on the handling of damage, does this negotiation stop?" The answer is, "No. However, you can choose to submit your case to the committee." It's on the site now. What the minister just said is really different. This is an existing case. The question: I'm negotiating with the NAM, can I go to the committee? The answer: yes, you can choose to submit your case to the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u255	That's highly remarkable!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u256	Yes. That's why I was writing and reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u257	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u258	We can't use any extra confusion in Groningen. People are already sad and confused enough. Perhaps the Minister can correct this immediately and then make sure that the websites are in line with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u259	I will come back to this in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u260	I suggest that you continue with the point about the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u261	Some procedures have been set up at night. And you know what I look like at night. Yes, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u262	No, Minister. Do not respond to comments outside the microphone. No one can follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u263	The minister called it beautiful words: "the disappearance of Groningen." But of course they are also very sad words. I was shocked this morning when I read the message that 60% to 80% of the population in the villages seems to disappear. Then the motion adopted by myself and Mr Nijboer is very relevant. I was wondering what the minister's done since taking that motion. And is he also so shocked by that message in the Dagblad van het Noorden about so many homes that are in danger of disappearing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u264	Yes... It may be up to Mrs Dik-Faber to say what she thinks is not going well. I find it complicated to reflect out of my head about an adopted motion. Maybe in the second term it can be a little sharp about what it then has to worry about. Then I can go into that much more specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u265	You may explain, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u266	I'd like to explain. Let me give you an example. The fact that the property in question is about to be demolished has to do with the discussion of the best solution. Financially, the best solution would be demolition, because reinforcement is expensive, since it is a monumental building, an old toll house. This is just one of the many properties on the nomination to be demolished. The thrust of Mr Nijboer and I's motion was that the soul of Groningen should not be expressed in money. So let us not only look at the financial value, but also at the value of these buildings for the identity of Groningen. Then you're talking about monuments, but also about picturesque buildings and buildings that tell history. Then let not the finances be leading, but look at all the other points as well. Then it is very unfortunate when such a toll house is about to disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u267	The motion is not about individual premises. It says that cultural and social value must be included in the consideration. I really believe that we are working towards the letter of that motion because the heritage programme is the basis and the Heritage Window and the advisory team continue to exist. In any case, that consideration is at issue. Whether that always means a certain choice in individual cases is also something the owner himself has an influence on, but I think we can say that this is done in a proper way. The keeper of that thought is OCW. That ministry does this in a pleasant-militating way, which I experience every time. So I have the feeling that someone with a lot of passion is behind Mrs Dik-Faber's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u268	Thank you to the Minister for his commitment to take the NAM outside the reinforcement. That is his intention, as he did in the settlement of damages. Now we have the next question. Since we're going to close some clusters, the gas extraction might go a little more to the edges of the area. Does that affect the contours established by the NAM for the reinforcement operation? I would like an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u269	Let me not pretend to be an expert on safety standards in relation to seismic activity. I can't do that here either. I do not think that is the case with Mrs Mulder's question. There are shifts of area. For example, the recent earthquake was already outside the contours, which had been designed for a very different purpose. Of course, we also have the future. We will see that at the end of March and then be able to discuss it with each other. Gas extraction is coming at a lower level than it's ever been. That could also have an impact. But let's wait and see the influence that all this has on the number of houses to be strengthened and on the extent to which they are strengthened. It's something that needs to be involved. This is more for the interested economist, okay, I'm in that group, but I also see advantages of strengthening and rebuilding. But if it were my house, I would probably think less rationally and economically about it. So we need to know very well what we do to people, and do it only where it is necessary. So that means that we have to keep an eye on, and take into account the seismic activity and the level of gas extraction, without changing the picture every three months, because that also makes people crazy. We have to take this into account, but I do not, of course, have a direct answer to the question for Mrs Mulder. But she does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u270	I have a very simple question about backup. Who's gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u271	Reinforcement is damage in a sense of liability. So that must be the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u272	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u273	Yes, but that still has to be agreed in the same kind of agreement as it is now. Will the government also assume responsibility for this? People who need to strengthen usually also have damage, because if you need to strengthen, a lot has to be done. So you're suffering from earthquakes; you've already had earthquakes. Do these people have to go to the government for one part, to the new part, and to the other part somewhere else and then not at the same time? How's that gonna happen later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u274	Now I find Mr Nijboer twittering for a moment, because this question has just been asked by a colleague. Is it reasonable to set the strengthening operation at a distance from the NAM and to make it public in one way or another? I have said that this is a reason, but it still has to be done with the region. There is, of course, a certain relationship. Sometimes damage leads to the conclusion that more needs to be done immediately to strengthen. But of course, it is in itself orderly if we strive as much as possible for a limited number of points of contact and as little fuss as possible. Apart from that, it is reasonable not only to distance the NAM, but to take it out. Well, that's reason enough, but again, I'm speaking a little for my turn. I do that with love, but this is as far as I go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u275	I was reading the Acts of previous debates. I wasn't tweeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u276	You weren't tweeting. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u277	No, no, no, that just came up. You weren't tweeting. Oh, come on, it had something to do with the phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u278	We're about to check it out. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u279	I am pleased that someone like Mr Nijboer does not tweet. I already had great faith in him. The gas building, just a serious subject. In today's cooperation, we have this terrible thing, the Cooperation Agreement, as well as the Multifibre Arrangement and all those things where I always have to keep to the agreement that it is confidential. That's not it at all anymore. Those agreements need to be reviewed. I believe that this is an answer to Mr Bishop's question. Look, security of supply requires a lot of things. It also requires that the NAM is no longer attached to the buttons. So here too, the NAM needs to get away. It should no longer be the NAM that determines the level of extraction. That's what the government's gonna do. That's one. That is a major change in responsibilities. This also means that all kinds of criminal liability will have to change, without the financial liabilities changing. That's gonna take a lot of work. There's almost a contradiction in that. Undoubtedly all this must be reflected in the system of payments. The new agreements must then also reflect financial robustness. When will we finish that? I don't know about that either. But if I had to, I'd say, after April, May, I'd be uncomfortable. I have to negotiate this with the oil companies. I am not going to put that in between, but I intend to make it as public as possible. I'm not alone at the table. It's not just me. If there is real business confidentiality, I may have to respect that. But if it's up to me, it'll be as public as possible. That's my bet. The financial robustness is an important point in that. A lot of different members of this Chamber have underlined this. One thing is important: there must always be sufficient funds wherever and in whatever form to finance the damage and the reinforcement. Because reinforcement is also damage in the legal sense. This whole package must be able to be financed, even if gas extraction is at a lower level, in the future and even if the Groningen field is closed at some point. We haven't won coal in years. But 51 years after the end of mining, the counter for the damage in Limburg is still open. It's not crowded out there anymore. There's no line. But it's there. This means, therefore, that we must somehow ensure that these resources are available. Such agreements on financial responsibilities have always been part of the gas building since 1963. Always! That's always been there and now it's still in there. It is true that it was then 1963 and is now 2018. It will have to be part of the new gas building again, but according to today's legal views and hardness, in terms of 2018. That's what it is. It was part of it and will be part of it again, just to prevent someone from having a claim on one or the other after that. That's the kind of arrangement that should be in that gas building. I have no reason to doubt that it will succeed. I've seen Shell and Esso's statements. One says the NAM should never go bankrupt. This seems to me to be an implicit confirmation of robustness and a guarantee of robustness. Shell even invites us to send the bill if everything goes wrong. I am not going to comment on the form in which that assurance is given, but that it must be part of it is perfectly clear. I am not going to conduct the negotiations publicly, but in my view it is unthinkable that agreements should be made in the gas building that would not make this financial robustness an important part of it. Mrs Van Tongeren asks where that is. I have no idea where that is in the annual reports of the oil companies. I didn't see that one. It does occur in the state balance sheet, but that is not because it is the property of the gas, but because it is the discounted expected gas benefits. And so you will also have to adjust it in some cases, namely if there are other expectations about the volume or about the price. So what's there is the cash-made value of the remaining expected cash flows. It's not the possession of the gas. Basically, that doesn't matter much, but that's what it says. There has been enough talk about the 403 declarations. I heard Mr Kops say a number of things that didn't seem right to me, but he looked at it as if he knew it himself. I think I have been clear enough that I fully agree with Mr Kops that the damage should simply be recoverable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u280	Mrs. Van Tongeren, I owed you one more question. I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u281	Thank you, Mr President, for the coulance or for the encouragement. It is very strange that reserves owned by a company are nowhere on the balance sheet. People have been through Exxon and Shell's annual reports for me and can't find it anywhere. In any case, it is not mentioned in the NAM's annual report. Does the Minister agree with me that this property of the NAM should be on a balance sheet somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u282	I'm not gonna interfere with the accounting of two oil companies. The government has it on the state balance sheet, as far as the cash value of the expected cash flows is concerned. That's what I like to say. To be honest, I did not go through the oil companies' annual reports on this issue, but this seems to me to be a real question for their accountant. I do not think that question is important for the debate here either. The main point is: the financial robustness must be secured and the gas building is again a place for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u283	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u284	Finally. I'm gonna find another way to ask the Minister or the Minister of Finance about the accountancy statement. My second question was about the state balance sheet. In 2014 it was 127 billion and now, a little four years later, it is 41 billion. That's a very big drop. I'd like to hear an explanation for that. The gas price has gone down, but not that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u285	No, but it's both in P and Q. It is no secret that less gas is produced. We've gone down 60%. The gas price has also been adjusted downwards. That together has led to this number in this discounting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u286	I would like to ask the Minister: like? What did I say about the 403 statement that doesn't make sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u287	I have heard Mr Kops suggest that liability would be at risk by withdrawing the 403 declaration. And that's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u288	I think Shell gave the warranty orally. During the hearing, the Professor of Corporate Law simply said that this is not worth anything and that Shell is fully entitled to withdraw that 403 statement. And that is at the expense of joint and several liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u289	A 403 declaration relates to legal acts and not to liabilities. A lot of judgements can be made as to whether liability by the phrases in the gas building was sufficiently secured or not, but at least no change has been made as a result of the withdrawal of the 403 declaration. By the way, I agree with Mr Kops that this must remain secure in the gas building and that this is therefore an important element.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u290	I think you got to the last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u291	Indeed, I continue with the health effects. That's a report that, of course, scares you for a while. There are six recommendations in that report from the University of Groningen and they are arrested with the region. The GGD Groningen, RIVM and the National Coordinator Groningen are preparing a plan of action to achieve an integrated approach at the request of the Minister of VWS and with his involvement. That should be done by April. A further 1.5 million has also been made available to finance additional support immediately in consultation with the municipalities. What's the state's stake in this? The task of the state is that there are a lot of things that affect that stress and the feeling of insecurity of the inhabitants, which we must also say about here in this Chamber. The height of the gas extraction is one, the new damage protocol is another. Furthermore, there is the powerlessness that people with damage feel towards the NAM. Those are all things that have influence. The government agreement also provides €50 million per year for healthcare professionals and mental care providers. Those are the things we can do about it here. I must honestly say that it is our main influence to remove uncertainty, to remove unequal fighting from people and to ensure that this gas extraction simply goes down at a steady pace. Let me put it this way: that is the task I have set out for myself in connection with this report. In this sense, all six recommendations have been made. I have a few more questions from several spokesmen that I may not have gotten to. Ms Beckerman stated that she had recently found that the role of the State in the gas building was greater than expected. In all honesty, I can't imagine that much. She may have meant something else, but I'll leave her with what she meant by that. I think I'm about to understand her mistake, and that's also unpleasant. I'm not gonna put anything in her mouth. Let's see. There's still a few specific questions in there. I do not now have an answer to the question about a discussion in the Lower House of the States-General about a Mrs of 78. I'm just gonna take that on board, but we're not gonna talk about that here. I don't think that's a good idea, not even for the person concerned. That's not how it's supposed to be. I'm through a lot of things, but I'm not going to answer one thing. Mrs Van Tongeren asked me if I can guarantee that NAM no longer uses the Witteveen and Bos method. That's exactly what I shouldn't interfere with. I really shouldn't interfere with that. If I am going to make statements about what should not be used, someone else is going to say what should be used. Then we really lost that independence. As my colleague from the Justice Department is far from what judges have to do, I really have to stay away from these assessments. Mrs Van Tongeren also asks what the status of that committee is. Does it have a supervisory board or is it going to be a Zbo? No, it's just an advisory committee now. It's gonna be another vehicle, some kind of window or an institute of mining damage. The suspension, also in the administrative sense, is simply on the research agenda of the entire administrative team with the region. One of the blocks is all you need to change administrative arrangements and legislation. That's what this is all about. I'll see what questions have remained. I've treated a lot of things. There is one more question from Mr Wassenberg. He asked about the spread over the cabinet. That's an important one, too. That question gives me the opportunity to say a few words about the great efforts of my colleagues as well. VWS has just been mentioned, very explicit. Don't underestimate the Secretary of State. Not only does she visit the area, but there is also a whole team of BZK, including the government architect and so on, to ensure that there can be built in a neat way, but also in a fun, exciting way, sustainable neighbourhoods. I also hope that there will be a unique pilot project for the Netherlands with a sustainable neighbourhood. As has already been said, OCW does not only the schools but also the heritage and cares about it. And if there is a demonstration with tractors, I find the Minister of LNV next to me, who also sits on that tractor. It's really wide spread in the cabinet. The Minister for Legal Protection also feels involved because he must guarantee the independence of that window. So there are a lot of members of the cabinet involved. The experimental space that Mr Jetten is asking for is an interesting one. I'm just gonna think about that. Thank you for that. They asked about the pace of the 50 million. I don't know if there's a special pace for that. I'm gonna ask you what's going on. Maybe I'll come back to it in the second term. The response to the LNG terminal is only disappointing. Look, LNG is not low-caloric Groningen gas. There is no shortage of gas, there is a low-caloric problem, and the LNG terminal is not helping with that. Mrs Mulder asked about the agreements with the farmers. They are explicitly on the agenda, but first we need to keep an eye on how things are going. Some of the cases come in the new window. Those are the cases of the past year. They should simply be served in a proper manner through the new window. It's complicated, I say. I think that the committee really needs to make every effort to deal with this in a sensible way. We are going to follow the old cases, but if we do not, we will need additional agreements. But I'm not ready for that yet. Let me see how it goes first. But I say explicitly: damage is damage, and damage must be compensated. That is what I am saying again. Mrs Mulder is also concerned about the need for more people. Well, I don't think I should get bored with the Chamber with human issues. Sometimes I have a need to cut myself in half, but that's not possible. It's just really hard work. The people who are doing this have missed a lot of nights and weekends anyway. We're working fast on capacity building. The relocation of mining to other provinces is a more theoretical point. As I said, there is no gas shortage, but there is a low-caloric problem. From the point of view of gas quality, it makes no sense to increase production elsewhere, but also not financially. We're not gonna say, "Oh dear, what an expensive operation this is gonna be; let's just pump some extra out of the little fields." That's not the point. We have also included clear statements in the coalition agreement, with which Mrs Mulder is very well aware. We'll just stick to that. That's what we do, and that's what we do. Then there is Mrs Yeşilgöz's question when the members of the committee are appointed. That's in full swing. The Minister for Legal Protection is very busy with that. There are great lists. There is also interest; people find it an honorable task. People also see that it has real impact. There are a lot of people coming in who say they love to contribute to it. That even applies to those committee members. Then there is the question of direct costs for households from reducing gas extraction. That is not the case at the moment. It's not like we're gonna be chasing household charges right now. It is true that households will be called upon not to buy gas stoves and atmospheres on gas now. Of course, other things can play a role in the energy transition, but that is not directly linked to it. Mr Baudet is asking for a guarantee. He says: I do not want an effort; I want a result commitment. I don't have him to offer, because I'm offering him an endeavor and he knows why I'm doing it. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this was the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u292	Yes. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u293	That motion of mine, which I believe I tabled in May 2017, was not about what the Minister is now saying. The minister says there are several ministries involved in the damage recovery. The Safety Research Council has said that when it comes to balancing gas extraction and gas extraction levels, interests should be placed at different ministries. Not just one ministry, not all balls in one hand. The Minister talks about damage recovery, the OVV and the motion discuss a balance of interests. That's one. The second is about the questions I would have liked to ask the US Secretary of State. The Minister of EZK says VWS is involved. It's a very complex problem. The feeling of insecurity, the psychosocial stress and the problems that arise from it are a very complex issue. The security region of Groningen is involved and thus also indirectly the Ministry of Justice and Security. The Ministry of EZK is involved. The VWS Ministry is involved or should be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u294	And the question is, Mr. Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u295	Only coordination is lacking there. And that is my question: shouldn't there be a clear coordination between all those roles, all those public bodies, so that there really is one clearly guiding role?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u296	I have nothing on the retina that there would be no coordination. Then let's establish that first. There are a lot of parties involved, local authorities, but also VWS. I would not dare at all to assume that coordination is inadequate there at the moment. If Mr Wassenberg has any other signals about that, I would be glad to hear them. But do we just assume that there is a question of coordination?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u297	That is one of the conclusions of the report that Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u298	But right now? We are in the process of implementing the recommendations. That's being worked on right now. Is there a coordination problem there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u299	That's one of the points in that report, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u300	Yes, but it is one of the six recommendations to do something about it. We are working on this right now. Does Mr Wassenberg have any indication that that would not work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u301	That is indeed one of the problems. I'll just wait and see. But I really need that directional role. Fine. Then there is the question I had about the different balls in one hand, about the balancing, not the repair, in which the different ministries are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u302	I get it. To my regret and shame, I don't have that motion on the retina. I don't have my answer ready. I'm starting to think about it now, but that's later than it might be. I will come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u303	I have the motion on my table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u304	The minister's gonna come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u305	I'd be happy to. I'll get back to you in second term. I'll go over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u306	The minister just indicated that he is taking the cases of agricultural damage that are new with the committee. The old ones could choose, as the website says, or join in the old round. But I can imagine that this sector has quite a few specific problems together. In the tractor on the Malieveld there have also been talks between the Minister and the Minister of LNV about possible further arrangements. Can the Minister confirm that this is the case or that he is open to further agreements with the agricultural sector? I'd like to make that clear, because they were very excited about that conversation in the tractor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u307	I have promised there that I will simply dive into it in substance to see what it is all about. That's gonna happen anyway. Then we have to see that it lands well in the window, where there is still a lot of work to be done. We must also ensure that it is properly taken up in the NAM process. But if that doesn't work, we have to do something with that knowledge about how to do it. I'd like to take a look at this first, but I'd like to understand what's going wrong. I would like to leave that with the parties, both at the counter and at the NAM. Then we need to see if further agreements are needed. In the end, I keep saying that damage is damage and must be compensated if it fits in with the window mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u308	Thank you very much for this clarification. I have another point. I'm glad the Minister says here that you can't just use one-on-one small fields to compensate for everything, but there is confusion about that in the country. People are afraid of that. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister says quite clearly here that this is not the intention. It'll give you peace of mind. What would also give peace is the independent assessment of damage per individual resident. Then I don't care if you're damaged by mining activities, by wastewater injection or by the small field policy, whether you're hit by Groningen or not by Groningen. It would give the mining operator peace of mind if the same kind of agreement were made with possible other mining operators, so that the resident would no longer face such a huge company but would know that the State will look at any mining damage together with the resident. I think there's a lot of need for that, whether you live in Emmen or in Assen or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u309	It is actually about broadening the methodology we have here, for example to other areas and fields. But also salt extraction or geothermal energy could cause mining damage. Those are all shapes, too. I await the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. He should advise us how to deal with this. Then it may be that we have good reasons to do it separately. It could also be that we should think of a more integrated structure for an institute of mining damage that is part of it. I have clearly not yet decided on this question. I just wanted to make sure that the Groningers have that damage helped as soon as possible. But there are broader questions and they are also addressed. I also promised to send that advice to the Chamber. After that, there's got to be a line for how we handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u310	Mr President, I had also asked about the town and district plans. There are a lot of villages or neighborhoods that are affected by this. I mentioned Overschild in one of the previous debates, where half the houses are demolished. How is the Minister going to deal with the region so that they can take this in a good way? They don't just open cans of people who have done this before. I see that coming up and I'm really worried about that. You want to meet people, too, so they get perspective again. How are we going to help and support them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u311	Mrs Mulder shouldn't worry about that. Firstly, the region is organising this, but this is happening within the framework of the common project. If there is to be a vision of villages, but also of the region as a whole, it is clear that the region itself has a greater share than the Empire. We shouldn't be here pretending we really know what's good for Groningen. But it is part of the joint project. This also means that there is support from The Hague. From BZK and the branch for spatial planning very intensive support is provided. In other ways, local authorities are also given more material support in order to achieve this vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u312	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u313	Thank you for this. I had another question open about the secret contract that came out last week, and Shell and Exxon say, if I look through my eye hairs, that's the right contract. That contract talks about economic exhaustion. Our question to the Minister is: what does that mean; can you go to zero scenarios? The Minister has just indicated that he is going to look at different scenarios, not only up to twelve, but also after that. So, in the context of economic exhaustion, can he get rid of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u314	I would just like to say that, in negotiating a new gas building, I do not necessarily have to say a word to the old gas building. I think it is important that NAM and its underlying shareholders should be responsible for their part of the damage if necessary, even if gas extraction has fallen to zero. We can all feel on our clogs that we have no guarantees that the damage will end when extraction reaches a very low level, so we will have to guarantee that. That's what I'm aiming for in a new gas building.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u315	One of my outstanding questions was about small field policy and gas extraction in other provinces. I very much welcome the Minister's statement, also with reference to the coalition agreement, that lower gas extraction in Groningen will not lead to higher production elsewhere. It'll give you peace of mind. But in another place, we're gonna win less, and that's Loppersum. Specifically, the Loppersum cluster is closed. We have seen in the past that lower extraction in Loppersum has led to higher production at the edges of the field. Where's that one billion cuub from Loppersum? Are we gonna stabilize the field?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u316	Unfortunately, the 1 billion cub doesn't exist. The extraction level is determined by demand, where demand is physically dependent on the Groningen field. This is an offer. Out of the five Loppersum fields 1 billion cuub is less. Until the level of extraction goes down, that part must be taken elsewhere. Now it hasn't been said that it's going up elsewhere. We know that perhaps all this gas year the volume goes down compared to 21.6. It has not been said that it is going up elsewhere; that is not certain at all. But the 1 billion cube does not immediately result in a net reduction in total production. The Loppersum field delivered a billion dollars. That 1 billion is no longer from there, but the demand has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u317	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u318	Indeed, the question has not changed, but I want to help the Minister out of the dream. He says: we are going to deliver on the basis of demand, and that does not mean that we are going to use the extraction ceiling. In the past, until last year, the maximum extraction ceiling was simply the level of production. The question wasn't leading, but the ceiling was leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u319	We've given up on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u320	That's very nice to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u321	We've given up on that. We're not focusing on a number anymore, we're focusing on a minimum. This means that in a mild winter and in a year with a soft winter this could be such a year; let's make sure that it gets a little less cold now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u322	I suggest we start with the second term. I thank the Minister for his response and answers in the first term. I think there is a need for a second deadline. Do you guys need a short suspension, five minutes? Dinner break? No, we're just gonna continue with the second term. If there are any motions, we can have a dinner break. Then the Minister will have the opportunity to discuss possible motions. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u323	Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u324	Mr. Chairman. Those old damages, they don't keep me comfortable. That is really the group that has been waiting for a long time, which has often been in uncertainty for a long time, who has the feeling of having no grip and no future anymore. I think we really need to do something about that. I also think that a lot of people with old damage now have new damage from Zeerrijp. They would have to go to another committee twice. I think it's good not to. So a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that old damages are not covered by the new Protocol;]] [[Considering that too many people with damage prior to 31-03-2017, including households, farmers and businesses, have been waiting for compensation for a very long time;]] [[calls on the Government to give all victims of old damage the choice to be covered by the new Protocol and to deal with it before 1 July 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Sazias, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Baudet, Mr Kops and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-429]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u325	I have a question about that, too. Suppose the motion is not passed. People are now getting such a new offer from the NAM and CVW. Does the NAM recognise the damage? Does that mean that people can make use of the increase in value, or is that not so? Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SodM Code has declared red that the safety of the Groningers is at stake for at least one year;]] [[Whereas both companies and countries to which export is made indicate that this gas does not need in these quantities at all;]] [[considers that the amount of gas extracted from Groningen can therefore be reduced more quickly than previously;]] [[calls on the Government to take steps to reduce gas extraction in Groningen within two weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Kops and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-430]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u326	My third motion concerns the reinforcement operation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are villages where demolition threatens 60%-80% of the buildings;]] [[Whereas this would result in the loss of characteristic buildings and villages;]] [[believes that residents now have too little control over the future of their home and village;]] [[calls on the government to adopt a strengthening approach without the NAM but with the control of the villages concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Baudet, Mr Kops and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-431]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u327	The motion for a resolution on the parliamentary inquiry (33529, No. 408), which Mr Wassenberg has already tabled with me, we would like to put to the vote. I think it's very important that we do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u328	Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Van Tongeren on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u329	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that the damage protocol and the procedure of the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage, Groningen, be examined in the light of practice;]] [[calls on the Government to periodically review the working methods of the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage, Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the decision on mining damage in Groningen,]] [[whereas the plan to have all old cases settled by NAM before 1 July 2018 may prove problematic;]] [[calls on the Government to retain a role for the arbitrators, for example in cases not covered by the new damages protocol,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, following the recent opinion of the State Monitoring of Mines, it has become clear once again that all possibilities must be exploited to obtain the lowest possible gas extraction;]] [[Calls on the Government to have independent identification of gas storage and nitrogen conversion capacity in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and France, including installations with which GTS does not have a contract;]] [[calls on the Government to seize all possibilities to exploit this capacity so that gas extraction in Groningen can be reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Wassenberg, Beckerman, Nijboer, Sazias, Kops, Bishop, Agnes Mulder, Jetten, Dik-Faber and Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-432]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Beckerman, Jetten, Nijboer, Sazias, Kops, Bishop and Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-433]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Beckerman, Nijboer, Sazias, Kops, Agnes Mulder, Jetten and Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-434]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u330	Then I would ask the Minister, instead of tabling a fourth motion, to take a close look at this value jump clause wherever possible. We have emails from crying people who have been stuck at their homes for seven years: two years waiting and then five years because of the jump in value. And there's been another look at the state account. There are two of them. One is only government. The other is government and business. Both have exactly the same number: 41 billion. If we consider the Minister's explanation, that cannot be entirely true. But with "once" a letter I am also very satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u331	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are two things the Chamber is most concerned about. The first is the old cases, the people who have been busy for years and are always stuck and remain dependent on the NAM. The second is the reinforcement operation. What does that mean for villages and neighborhoods? And how does that relate to the damage protocol? Everyone thinks that the minister and the region are a great achievement, but if you have to go to both of them, you'll end up in a bit of the rain. The question is, how is that going? The Minister said we're going to see how we're gonna do it together. But whether this comes from the government remains a big question and a big task for the minister. Mr President, I have three motions for resolutions. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Groningers are concerned that they cannot sell their house;]] [[Whereas this entails stress and uncertainty;]] [[calls on the government to design a guarantee scheme so that people can always sell their homes for a reasonable price, adjusted for depreciation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-435]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u333	Mr. Chairman. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research carried out by the University of Groningen and the Children's Ombudsman shows that stress, psychological problems and emotional distress are increasing;]] [[calls on the government to pay much more attention to this by providing better guidance and professional support and removing causes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Sazias and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-436]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u334	Mr. Chairman. The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the NAM does not have sufficient reserves for the damage, strengthening and loss of value of dwellings;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure that a separate fund is set up, filled with sufficient funds to compensate for damages and finance reinforcements for years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-437]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u335	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u336	I have one question for Mr Nijboer. In the first place, I asked a number of political groups how they looked at this parliamentary survey. I would also like to hear that from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u337	I understand that. I have a bit of the same hesitation as Mrs Mulder and Mrs Van Tongeren about the moment. Given how much impact it has had and how it has been over the past few decades, there is no doubt, even for myself as a Groninger, that it is desirable to use a heavy parliamentary instrument. But if you do that now, the whole department will be deployed for that. Everyone who was involved with Shell and NAM, everyone in the region, mayors and aldermen, anyone who has played a part in it, will be fully involved in the coming years. That's one. Two, if you have set up such a parliamentary committee of inquiry, it will take two or three years and we will hardly be able to hold a debate. Then we say: yes, they're investigating; we're not going to get in their way. But there are still so many things that need to be settled in the near future...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u338	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u339	... that I don't think it's wise to set it up at the moment, but not because the content doesn't justify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u340	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All the injured must be treated equally. The claims made before 31 March 2017 should also be subject to consideration by the Committee. The victims must at least have that choice, so that they are no longer at the mercy of the NAM and what the NAM has to offer. The Minister is talking about a generous offer from the NAM, but we all know that there is simply no such offer. The NAM doesn't want to and the NAM can't. The Minister said about the damage that the Committee on Mines is dealing with: they are advanced and the costs are recovered from the NAM. And he said, there's always a risk that those costs just won't come back. So, in that context, we really need to be careful that people with old damages end up empty-handed. The PVV would like to table a motion on this point, but the SP has been ahead of us. That's fine. I would therefore like to endorse Mrs Beckerman's motion and her other motions for resolutions; thank you for that. As I said in the first term, it is a good thing that progress is being made and that a committee will be set up to pay the damages. If the damage is not paid back by the NAM, it is a good thing that the victims do not notice any of it in themselves, because they already have their money. However, it must not be the case that the NAM & co evades their liability. The amount of compensation should not be negotiable after payment. The account must therefore be transferred directly to the NAM. On that point, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the mining damage commission to be set up in Groningen (i.e. the State) will pay the damages to the injured parties and then recover them from the NAM;]] [[Whereas the level of compensation is not negotiable after payment by the Commission;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that, after payment by the commission, the account is transferred one-on-one to the NAM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-438]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u343	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many questions have remained open in this debate, but that is because that building still needs to be rigged. In the end, we'll just have to see how things roll out. What we really have great objections to is that the old damage cases still have to go to the NAM. We therefore wholeheartedly support Mrs Beckerman's motion. The minister has indicated that he will regularly talk to the NAM. We would like to hear more about this; hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government has indicated that NAM is making an ultimate attempt to handle old damages satisfactorily before 1 July 2018;]] [[whereas this is an enormous task, as it concerns about 6,000 notifications;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a four-week progress report on the handling of old damages by the NAM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Nijboer and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-439]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u345	We've talked a lot about the immaterial damage. It is not yet in the new protocol, but it is intended to fall under it. We just don't know exactly what is meant by this immaterial damage and what is covered by it; hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas intangible damage has not been included in the new injury protocol;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a definition of intangible damage and to include it in the injury protocol,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias, Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-440]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have just given the Minister a motion that has been passed before. I'm glad you didn't see that. It serves a good purpose, because that motion is necessary for the Minister to reply in the second term. It concerns the balance of interests and the various ministries that should be involved according to the Security Research Council. Mr. Chairman. I'm filing a single motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the University of Groningen shows that earthquake damage has a huge impact on the sense of safety and on the health of residents;]] [[Whereas different ministries should play a role in addressing the feeling of insecurity and the complex psychosocial problems that result from it;]] [[calls on the Government, in a partnership between the ministries of EZK and VWS and the security region of Groningen, to direct the development of a plan aimed at identifying, treating and, where possible, preventing psychosocial problems and health problems caused by gas extraction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-441]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u347	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u348	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Then I'll go to Mrs... Mr. Wassenberg, will you come back soon? President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). It may also be that Mr Bishop is walking so slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u349	I'm a little older, Mr. Chairman. Then that's what you're gonna get. Thank you so much for taking that into account. I have a question for Mr Wassenberg. I have heard it all: several times there has been a pressing request on his motion to launch a parliamentary inquiry. My first question is: what is the rush to do so in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u350	Two years ago, I thought it was very important that there should be a parliamentary survey. That's what I thought on January 16th. Then I filed the motion, along with Mrs Beckerman. What has happened in the last few weeks since 16 January is so poignantly important that, as far as I am concerned, the importance of such a parliamentary survey has only increased. I've held the motion. Perhaps in the coming weeks, months, I had indeed hoped for more support from the coalition. In the end, you can hold such a motion until the end of the day, but it will have to be put to the vote at some point. As far as I'm concerned, the momentum is there now. So much has happened. If this is not a reason for a parliamentary inquiry, then what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u351	This is not so much a question of whether the whole process could give rise to a parliamentary survey, but also of the scope of the survey. I would like to ask Mr Wassenberg whether that is sufficiently thought out. If a parliamentary survey is carried out now, the elaboration of the measures envisaged and put in place will no longer be part of the research field of the survey. So you get an amputated survey. You are, of course, free to table this motion, but I would imagine that it might be a profit if the start of the survey were postponed for exactly two years, one and a half years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u352	Everything up to the moment the survey begins must be investigated. A lot's happened. Like I said, you can keep putting off endlessly. I do not know whether Mr Bishop also refers to the delaying effect. I am not afraid of that, because one of the considerations in the motion is that this will not and should not happen. But as I said, you can continue to postpone indefinitely, but there must be a moment when that motion is put to the vote. As far as I am concerned, there can be no better time than now, given the developments of the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u353	I don't think that was quite the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u354	No. Rounding up. I am somewhat sensitive to the arguments that have been put forward, but I am particularly concerned about the instrument, the quality and the scope of the instrument. By initiating it now, you are excluding the involvement of the effects of measures that have now been put in the scaffolding. I would advise you to reconsider whether this is of such importance that the survey should be initiated at a later date. I agree with the colleague who says that I think this was Mrs Mulder, I think I remember that there will be a moment when you will investigate this because you want to know as a parliament. But then I want to know the effect is. Has the current Minister of EZK's approach been effective? Did we make the right choices? There's the real learning moments. That is why I am asking you to reconsider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u355	I think you've explained it enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u356	I'll have a word with the co-sponsor, Mrs. Beckerman. Then we will see whether we are actually going to vote on the motion on Tuesday, which is my intention at the moment, or whether we are going to hold it for a while. I'll talk to Mrs. Beckerman about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u357	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering all the questions. He mentioned the word "justice" at some point. If the NAM looks through a new pair of glasses at the old damage situations, I hope she does the same through the glasses of justice. I hope that the situation will be resolved for people, including the lady I met who has been living in a stand for three and a half years. I have another question for the Minister. Do people who do not come out still have the opportunity to go to the arbitrators or to the new committee of objections? I would like to have another reaction to that. Then the monuments and the picturesque buildings. I am pleased that the Ministry of OCW is involved, but I note that in individual cases the offer of the NAM remains based on its financial value. I would therefore ask the Minister to take a closer look at this, also on the basis of the motion adopted. Mr. Chairman. Today it has been more than once about the parliamentary survey. It is clear to me: it will come. For me too, there are many unanswered questions. Think of the sky-high gas extraction in 2013. At the same time, I am pleased that this cabinet is now committed to a good damage protocol, strengthening housing and reducing gas extraction. That's gotta be the focus right now. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file one more motion. It's about mental care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the research carried out by Groningen Perspective shows that many people are suffering emotionally and suffering from mental and health problems;]] [[Considering that money will be made available to health professionals and mental care providers for the mentoring of people who have left psychological complaints to the earthquake problem;]] [[Whereas at present municipalities, GGDs, churches, general practitioners and health insurers are involved in mental and mental care in their own way;]] [[calls on the government to direct a coherent approach to the spending of the money for mental care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-442]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u359	In my opinion, there is no doubt in the Chamber that we now need to get to work on strengthening, dealing with damage and reducing gas extraction. The question is, why do you use that as an argument against the parliamentary survey, and what exactly is different from what was done in 2016. Shouldn't we then be working on the reduction of gas extraction, reinforcement and damage disposal? Then you tabled the motion on a parliamentary inquiry yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u360	This discussion has been held a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u361	I can answer the question very briefly. A few years ago, we were in a different situation. Then we had a cabinet that, in my view, didn't do enough to bring down gas extraction, and didn't succeed enough to offer perspective to the people in Groningen. In that context, that motion was tabled, and I found a parliamentary inquiry justified. Now I think that this parliamentary survey should certainly be carried out at some point, but I also see that there is another cabinet now. I see a minister who puts his hands up, who sits on the trigger and talks with people, who organises a damages protocol within two weeks with support in the region. I see a minister talking about the reinforcement call, and he says: I'm going to bring down gas extraction; I'm sending a hearty letter to business. I haven't seen that in years. This minister's gonna light it up. I want to give him the space and the opportunity. I do not want to let this whole process, which so many people are involved in, go through a parliamentary survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u362	The arguments for and against have really been exchanged sufficiently. I should therefore like to thank you and give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u363	Thank you, Mr President. In the previous debate, I said that the rapid settlement of the new damage protocol and then the reduction of gas extraction are the two priorities for the Minister for the future. Both succeeded. That's good. In the coming period, we'll keep our finger on the pulse for further elaboration. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's commitment that he wants to look at experiment space for Groningen in the reinforcement operation, in order to prevent legislation and regulation from hindering that reinforcement. I'd like that reinforcement to be done independently of the NAM. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in line with the injury protocol, it is desirable to carry out the reinforcement notice independently of the NAM;]] [[calls on the Government to reach an agreement with the region and the National Coordinator Groningen as soon as possible, setting up the reinforcement operation independently of the NAM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Kops, Mr Bishop, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-443]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u364	Much has been said about the old cases. In the first term, I was satisfied with the Minister's answer following questions from me and questions from Mrs Agnes Mulder. That was also because I entered this debate with the Q&As in hand. In the Q&As on the website of the Ministry, question 9 says the following. Question: "I am negotiating with the NAM on the handling of damage, does this negotiation stop?" The answer is, "No. However, you can choose to submit your case to the committee." So I have entered this debate with the idea that you have a choice if you are covered by the old cases. But from the Minister's first term, I would say that this Q&A is actually wrong. I would like to hear in the Minister's second term whether he can clarify that. Pending the answer, I shall table a second motion. I realize it is similar to Mrs Beckerman's motion, but we may be able to work it out together. It's a little semantic. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas we need to ensure that residents in Groningen also deserve proper compensation for damage reports prior to 1 March 2017;]] [[whereas the NAM has undertaken to do its utmost to achieve this, but there will be cases where the parties do not emerge;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of progress in the treatment of old damages before 1 May;]] [[invites the Government to come up with solutions for dealing with broken claims, for example by using the arbitrators or by allowing residents to stop an ongoing case at the NAM and submit a new request to the Temporary Committee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-444]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u365	I'm just gonna start with the motions. Whatever time and space I have left, I will use for all my other points. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the unique size of the Groningen Field and the uncertainty about the safety in Groningen due to soil decline and seismicity in the future;]] [[Whereas the Court wishes to monitor developments closely, not only when the measurement and control protocol enters into force or when a new extraction plan is in place;]] [[Whereas further reduction of demand for Groningen gas is necessary for safety in Groningen, for example by allowing companies to switch to alternative heat and energy sources and to stop supplying heat, boiling and hot water with Groningen gas;]] [[Calls on the Government to request an annual progress report on the development of seismicity and security and its knowledge in relation to the Groningenveld;]] [[Calls on the Government to develop a plan with municipalities, housing corporations, the construction sector and other relevant parties to allow households to move away from Groningen gas for heat, boiling and hot water in the coming years;]] [[Invites the Government to indicate the follow-up steps to the letter to the large customers of Groningen gas and the time limit for these large customers to move away from the use of gas of Groningen quality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas with the Decision mining damage Groningen our residents in Groningen and above the gas storage Langelo with possible mining damage will be helped independently immediately after reporting their damage;]] [[Whereas, in the case of land mining activities, residents are also concerned about potential damage and their position vis-à-vis a large mining company;]] [[calls on the Government to also agree with other land-based mining operators on the treatment of claims by the Independent Committee on Mining Damage or by legislation to make this possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Sazias, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-445]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Jetten, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Sazias, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-446]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u366	Mr. Chairman. I still have a bit of a point of order. Mr Van Tongeren was addressed at a hearing we had a few years ago. We do not have any minutes of that hearing, but I reflected with a number of people at that hearing and it was not clear to us all that the farmer in question, Mr Van Tongeren now accuses of certain behavior, meant what he meant. I think that was a big feeling back then. Then I find it difficult for a colleague to be treated so harshly on the basis of this one accusation, even though she was not the chairman of that hearing. So she wasn't really about it. She has a lot of influence, but she wasn't about that. I would have liked to have said that here, because I was also present at that hearing and I am also one of those people who apparently did not understand him correctly. Well, I'm truly sorry about that. I was more impressed with the map he gave us all, which said that his wife left him because she couldn't handle living at home anymore. That's what hit me so deep back then. I think that is why we have all failed to understand what he might have wanted to tell us as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u367	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u368	Mr. Chairman. I have three points. First of all, let me express my gratitude to the Minister for answering the questions and for reflecting in detail on a number of points. I noticed that a number of colleagues were not entirely involved, but that was undoubtedly because of the motion pressure. So let me be their interpreter in your direction. If that is not good, we will hear it through an interruption! It seems to me right to express the appreciation for the steps that are being taken and the actions that are being taken. I don't have any motions, so it's up to me now. I have signed a motion on a number of key points and I would like to draw another line under one point. This is not just about repairing damage. This is also about restoring confidence. That was also explicitly mentioned three weeks ago. I would like to invite the Minister to take that look at the content of the motions: if I now give a positive opinion, leave the motion to judge Chamber or take over the motion, will it help restore confidence? I refer in particular to the motion which the government is asking for to leave the victims with outstanding previous claims the choice to do it via the NAM or to choose the other route. That motion could make an active contribution to that. I would like to invite the Minister to this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u369	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I go to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u370	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I started here today with the hope that the steps that have been taken and the steps that are about to be taken will remove some of the unrest that the Groningen people are right to have. That is what I want to conclude the debate with. We are far from there yet, but I hope that we can radiate together here that there should be no ambiguity about the stakes. Gas extraction has to go down as quickly as possible and the Minister is now working on the scenarios. I was clear about the frameworks and the framework conditions that the VVD sees in this respect. I won't repeat it here now. I have one more specific question for the Minister. I was not very happy with the answer about the situation in which someone's house was demolished and rebuilt. If the person sells the house within five years, there could be another arrangement, which would make him pay back some of that money. I understand that the Minister says that this is an agreement with the region, which has been put together for certain reasons. If there's a moment to review that, the Minister's gonna look into it. I would like to know from the Minister whether he sees such a moment in the near future. Could he be more specific about that? I'd really like us to do this differently. I would ask the Minister to go into this in detail. I do not have a motion for a resolution because I hope that I will have a very nice undertaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u371	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now turn to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u372	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the handling of the earthquake damage in Groningen is now dragging on for far too long and stranded in far too long consultation structures and meeting circuits;]] [[Requires from the Government that all identified damage suffered by the victims of the Groningen earthquakes is credited to the victims' bank account by 1 July 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-447]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u373	We will continue with the second term of government on the extraction of gas in Groningen. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u374	Mr. Chairman. I start with the questions and then walk through the motions, and I also start with the most important of the questions, namely those about the old cases. I always find that a difficult subject. It is no secret, not even in the region, that I would have liked to have one solution for everyone. It is also no secret that I have been the most noisy advocate of: everything apart from NAM in a public system, so a real system change. We have seen at the table that this is not feasible and that it is a recipe for failure of the so young window. At that time, we also decided together on the next best solution, which is also emotionally rather distant from the best solution, I think and the Members of Parliament agree. Anyway, that's the deal with the NAM I was able to negotiate. There has been a lot of money added and also a different way of working. There was also understanding in the region that it had to be so. I've been able to explain that very well. Honestly, I share the urge of the various Members here to prefer things differently, but I can't do much about it. Because I think it's really unfeasible. It's just wrong on the site. It is good in the explanatory statement of the decision. I will look at the texts, but it is, unfortunately, technically impossible. With Mr Bishop's adadium: taking care of something in a way that you can't live up to, it seems to me to be the worst way to restore confidence. Because I agree with the various members in essence, it hurts me to see an error on the site. But here's the thing. Then you know where I stand and what I felt compelled to do. Maybe I wasn't paying attention for a moment. No, I wasn't tweeting, but Mrs Van Tongeren was talking about a letter about 41 billion. I am willing to give her all the information she wants as a Member of Parliament, but I just don't know what information it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u375	You can explain that, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u376	We have two national balances. One is only government and the other is government plus business. Both say that the value of the gas is now 41 billion, and that surprises me. The same value of what the gas is worth in the ground is nowhere with the NAM or with Shell or Exxon in the financial statements. My second question is: how can it go from 127 billion to 41 billion in four years? I've also been counting on the gas price and the volume drop, but then I don't get that factor that it's only a quarter of what it was three years ago. In order to know for sure what is going on, I would like to get there at some point. There's no rush to get the government's clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u377	It could have been a written question, but we have a nice meeting here, and I say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u378	Cozy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u379	Then we have Mrs Yeşilgöz, who asks when I will come back to that clause. Are you sure you're gonna take that jump seriously? I've heard it from her very pregnant. I know her objections and I've heard it more widely. I say to her that we are going to look at it, that we are going to include it in the deliberations. We're getting there. Before the summer we have to come up with a solution. Mr Wassenberg asked me what happened to his motion. He even gave me the voting ratio. Yeah, I do. In the meantime, I have been able to look into the motion. It was a pre-formation motion. The previous cabinet was advised to give the SodM a more independent position and to share the responsibilities for the Groningen dossier. Frankly, we are not going to carry out this motion. The decision-making process takes place in the broadest possible body of the cabinet, namely the Council of Ministers. That's why the checks-and-balances are secured and that's why we decided not to change this. Moreover, the responsibilities with regard to Groningen and gas extraction are now more widely shared than ever. There has been more and more in-depth discussion in the Council of Ministers than in all kinds of years in the past. There is a great deal of attention from all rulers and in connection to Groningen, but not in this way. So I must give this unsympathetic answer to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u380	The Minister's presentation is not entirely correct, because the Security Research Council said a number of years ago that these interests had to be spread across ministries. Then the minister's predecessor, Minister Kamp, said: it is already under different ministries, because the Council of Ministers... In the later opinion, the Research Council said: 'No, that does not go far enough, because we mean that prior consideration of interests must lie with different ministries. That it all comes back to the Council of Ministers: yes, that makes sense." But the Security Research Council has said that the balance in the Council of Ministers is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u381	Yeah, well, that's an advice we're not taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u382	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u383	I'm starting the motions. The first motion in part No. 429 I must, by the way, with some regret, advise against. But Mrs Beckerman would like to add something to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u384	No, I don't want to add anything to that. I had two more questions open! My first question was about that motion, because I asked: is it not true that many old cases also have new damage from the earthquake at Zeerijp? Does that mean that you don't charge the committee extra because people have to go? The second question I asked was whether the people who now receive a final offer or offer from the NAM are also recognised for the damage. If not, people are no longer entitled to, for example, the WVM, the Appreciation Scheme, the well-known solar panels. Those two were still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u385	That's a very good question. I remember thinking when Mrs. Beckerman asked him, that's a very good question. I honestly don't have the answer. It has been discussed in detail, because it is a very good question. I'm gonna try to get the answer. It's been discussed extensively, but sometimes you've lost what you've come up with. Old cases, new damage. That's also what came along. In my view, we have said that things must be done in this way, because people should not be harassed with two points of contact. I agree with that, but I do not know how we put that into operation. To be honest, I don't think we've done that yet. I would like to ask whether there are any further thoughts on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u386	They're working on it. It's coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u387	They're both very good points; not a bad word about it. Then there is the second motion in part No. 430. It won't surprise her that I have to discourage it. Then the motion to part No. 431 on a strengthening approach without the NAM but with the control of the villages concerned. In fact, I can say nothing about this except that I think this is the policy and that I leave the motion for a resolution to the House. Key words, Mr President, this motion! Then there is the fourth motion in part No. 432, which calls for periodic evaluation of the methodology. Yeah, there's nothing against that, of course, and that's why Chamber is judging. I do not want one thing, and that is that in the evaluation I would in one way or another affect the committee's independent position. It is therefore still a question of system responsibility. I'm not gonna hand out reports to the committee, because I'm gonna defend her independence to the last degree. Then there is the fifth motion in part No. 433. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. I wouldn't recommend it to people, either, because you don't want to possibly get a whole research on causality over you, while the NAM has decided to solve it generously. I must advise against this, and that is also in line with the decisions of the entire administrative team. Then number six, the motion to part no. 434, which calls for all possibilities to be seized. I don't think I can be against that. I'll leave the motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u388	So motion six, in part no. 434: Judgment Room. Mr Jetten, on the previous motion, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u389	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The previous motion, the motion in part No. 433 by Mrs Van Tongeren, asks to retain a role for the arbitrators. I have interpreted the motion as particularly applicable to the damage cases which still have to deal with the NAM. The next one comes back from the same Q&A. Also in that Q&A it says: "My damage file lies with the Arbiter Soil Movement. What happens with that?" The answer to that actually indicates that you can just go to the arbitrators...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u390	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u391	So then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u392	If you're with the arbitrator, you can stay there, but you can also introduce the NAM. You have a choice in that. But suppose you're not with the arbitrators, then you're not. People can't run a masse to the arbitrators. But for the people who are just sitting with the arbitrators right now, it's their right. They can finish that. Those arbitrators will continue to work. There's even 2,000 more cases or something. So there's nothing against that. In that sense, yes, but that's not what it says here. Here's the word "all." I think it looks good on the site. Mr President, I am at number...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u393	The motion in part No. 435.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u394	The motion in part No. 435: Designing a warranty rule. I am aware of the problem, but I must advise against it now. I don't know how we're gonna do this right now. The motion in part No. 436: better guidance and professional support. This is so close to the ambitions of the coalition agreement that I really want to leave this to the discretion of the Chamber. A separate fund with sufficient funds, the motion in part No. 437. I agree with Mr Nijboer's wish that this financial soundness should be guaranteed, but he immediately follows a certain method. There are about eight other ways to do this. I would like to discourage the motion at this stage, because it simply intervenes directly in the negotiations on the gas building. I agree with Mr Kops's principle in the motion on item No. 438. But just the fact that I cut the front door and the back door, means that I can't guarantee this at all times, because then I let justice depend on the wallet of the NAM. I shouldn't do that. So I embrace this endeavor, but I advise against the motion. But I think I am very close to Mr Kops. Four-weekly a progress report, the motion in part No. 439. No, we shouldn't do that micromanagement. I promised a letter halfway through. I'm gonna stick to that. So I'm gonna advise against that motion. As regards the motion in part No. 440 I am free to think that the authors underestimate the field of assessment of intangible damage. Can I give you a definition? No, you got professors in here. That is not feasible. I'd like to take it very seriously. This will be discussed. It's important. But this definition, and then it goes into the damage protocol, it doesn't work. The ultimate aim is that it should be dealt with at the same point of contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u395	We've talked extensively about the immaterial damage. We must know what that means and what it includes. You can call on professors to define a definition, but we need to know: what does that mean, this immaterial damage? You have said that it will be covered by the new protocol...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u396	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u397	But then we will have to know what the definition of it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u398	Of course, you can help people a little by indicating what kind of things that could be, but a definition really goes far. I can't. You should be more consistent with case law and all that. Maybe we share the same concerns. People need to know a little bit about what to think about, and someday this will have to end up at the same institute or one of the other forms of mining damage. But the way it's written here, I really have to discourage the motion. But I'm not sure our intentions are really very different. I'm going to the motion in part no. 441, if it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u399	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u400	In that motion, the security region is suddenly brought in. Look, I want to do this. An integral plan is being worked on. I have tried to reassure Mr Wassenberg: it is being worked on. But that does not happen in this way or in relation to the safety risk. It has nothing to do with health. So I must discourage the motion in this form, and here too I secretly think that we are not very different in terms of intentions. The motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 442 asks the government to direct a coherent approach in the use of the money for mental care. It is very doubtful whether this should be the government. To be honest, I think that this is going through the local authorities very hard. Perhaps it is up to the municipality, the province or any other organizing force to do so. Yes, direction is needed. That is also one of the recommendations. That's where I'm saying yes. But that's what the government does: no. Not necessarily. I have to discourage it in this form. But I think Mrs Dik-Faber has a suggestion for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u401	Yes. It is quite right for the Minister to say that direction is needed as well as an integrated plan of action. This is also evident from the research of Groningen Perspective. I'm in contact with a professor of mental care who also says it's really too fragmented right now. There must be a more coherent approach somewhere. I understand the Minister doesn't want the Empire to overrule the municipalities in this. But who's supposed to be in charge? I would very much like to have another answer there. If that's not possible today, I'm quite prepared to hold the motion. But there are countless initiatives now, they are working side by side, and I am afraid that the money we have reserved in the coalition agreement will eventually be too fragmented, so that people do not notice the difference. And that would be a terrible shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u402	I share the concern, but then the call must be that not only the government, but also the local authorities, together, should come to more direction. If it's anything like that, I'll leave it to the Chamber. I recognise that there is a task here, but I think the wording is too one-sided. But I think we understand each other well. If Mrs Dik had a more detailed text, I would love to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u403	Are you changing the motion, Mrs. Dik-Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u404	Let me take a look, also on the basis of this little debate with the Minister, at what I do with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u405	The Jetten c.s. motion. in piece No. 443 concerns a reinforcement operation which is set up independently of the NAM. I can very passionately agree with that. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then we have a motion with two calls. Even three. No, two. This motion, the motion Jetten/Agnes Mulder in part No. 444, calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 May of the progress of the treatment of old damages. I already promised. There's nothing against that. This motion also calls on the government to come up with solutions to deal with persistent claims. I would say: let's give it a chance now. To do this already... then we'll be done right away, then we'll be out. It'll drop dead. Then people go all kinds of ways... Let me just say that if there are any cases left after July 1st, or if it is completely squandered in the interim report in an unreparable way, then we have to take action in one way or another. I can imagine that the author of the text will add a little more to the text and then hold the motion until July. 'Cause I get the idea. It says here, "Let's not let people die if something fails."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u406	Thank you for the Minister's reply and for the Minister's introduction to this second term. Clear. I'll change the motion a little bit more, but I'll hold it right away. I'd like to ask you something. We get that letter in the interim, which is great, but then I would also like the Chamber to receive another letter in July, so that we can again weigh up the matter of holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u407	I'd like that. Of course. We really need to be able to find the balance in that. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u408	At the request of Mr Jetten, I propose his motion (33529, No. 444). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u409	Then some less instrumental terms help. So more the intention not to choke people than the instruments, because then comes the calculating citizen, also in the north of the country. And I want to give this a chance now. I just want to make sure that people get justice without hassle and lawsuits. The motion in part No. 445 I shall leave it to the Court to decide, while referring to the climate agreement in which it should be reflected in the second request to the Government. But I shall leave this motion to the House's judgement. On the motion in part No. 446 I'm going to say something that's not entirely original. I really do not want to consider broadening until after the opinion of the Technical Committee on Soil Movement; this is the fixed ping-pong game on this point. That means that I will give consideration to the authors to hold the motion and to put it to the vote as soon as that opinion is delivered with the intention of the cabinet. Then the motion to part No. 447.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u410	Mrs Mulder has another question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 446.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u411	Yes. When can we expect that advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u412	It's not expected to last very long. Maybe in March or something. Or still in February? No, March. It's on for now. It is also time, because I have already discussed this four times with Mrs Mulder alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u413	I'm in a hurry! But I'll have a word with my co-sponsors. We may then hold the motion until it is clear that the opinion is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u414	But should the motion not be held...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u415	Then I'll have to dissuade him at this stage, but I think the mutual understanding is that holding on might be better. I know Mrs Mulder is in a hurry to do this. You'd almost say she has a Drent interest in her, too. The motion in part No. 447 "Requires from the Government." I think it's a nice move, but as a demand, I have to dissuade him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u416	Compliments to the Minister for the speed with which he deals with the motions. Even for professional motion petitioners and conferencers, things sometimes happen very quickly. I would like to come back to the motion on item No. 435 on the guarantee scheme and the Minister's argument against it. It would give a lot of rest and security and remove stress if such a scheme could be made in one form or another, which does not have to cost much, but which just gives people certainty. Why is the Minister not prepared to do so, or at least to do so, so I would also like to adapt it seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u417	It's got two jumping points in it. The first is that, with today's insight, I find it complicated to establish sufficiently objectively what that fall in value is. This has so far proved to be problematic, and with this new judgment, which has become even more complicated in cases other than this one. The second is that this requires a financial instrument on top of that. So you also have to consider what you then suddenly... then you become the owner of homes. Moreover, there are many initiatives in the region that are very interesting, but they do not become the government, but corporations become the owner of housing. There are all initiatives, but thinking about them is so deep in the roots of this further approach that I simply cannot see it at all. In that sense, I must discourage the motion, but it is not true that it does not fall within the scope of the search at all. The corporate initiativers, by whom I am approached enthusiastically, also have such things in mind. But I really can't promise this right now, in any way. So I'm gonna have to dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u418	If I were to change it to "research seriously," in this further search for how uncertainty and stress can be countered? Then you're not bound by anything, but I really think this is a serious consideration from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u419	Then it becomes something like "calls on the government to investigate a guarantee scheme whereby people can always sell their house for a reasonable price, adjusted for decrease in value." I have no objection to that investigation. I'll leave that to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u420	Okay. This motion will then be amended and put to the vote. I thought you were ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u421	Yes. I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u422	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u423	You're welcome!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u424	We're all watching: huh, is it suddenly over? I would like to thank the Minister very much for his...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u425	Oh, yeah, sorry. Not again!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u426	That's right! There was a question left by Mrs Beckerman. I thought something wasn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u427	I'm a very hard learner, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u428	But Mrs. Beckerman is very careful. Do you have the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u429	No, I don't understand the answers. This is why I prefer to take a debate on the basis of some of my own notes. No, I don't understand any of this. I'll come back to this and I'll process it in the same letter. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u430	Do you agree, Mrs. Beckerman? Yes! This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-7.u431	I thank the Minister and thank the Members of Parliament. I know that many Groningers follow this debate in a different way than they did last time, when they came to The Hague by bus. I would also like to thank the people who have followed this debate in a different way, and of course the Members of Parliament and the staff. We will vote on the motions tabled next week.
