ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38878	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, we are looking for a break for use, i.e. unused pre-accession funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38879	I didn't understand you. And the funds, okay. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Funds, funds.]] Comrade Glasnović, please... You weren't the first to ask, because when you start the session, you can look for it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. You're the second break, all right. You just have to explain the reasons... Turn on the microphone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38880	... bank accounts abroad. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38881	Bank accounts abroad, fine, fine. Is anyone else picking up for a break? Here you go, Comrade Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38882	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDZ Club is looking for a break for further explanations regarding the research commission on Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38883	Thank you. Then we have a request in three three times. I'm a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38884	Please, from the HNS Club for the same reason we took a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38885	Okay, I'm taking a break until... Go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38886	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Bridge Club, on the matter of moving young people to other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38887	Okay. Then we have five demands. It's till 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] We'll start the debate after the break. The first is the SDP advocates' club and distinguished counterpart Siniša Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38889	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I am sorry that yesterday in the late hours was the topic of saying the use of funds that affect the BPD Republic, and we know that the Republic of Croatia pays out of the budget 3.2 billion kuna, so the common budget of our extended supranational community or the EU, which is exactly 1% of the total GDP. And in the very structure of GDP, investment that we can share on private and public certainly affects state spending, personal consumption in a significant counter-inflation factor again, our GDP as well as any GDP. Now why am I saying this? Because, at the 14th session of 24 October 2014, that was three years ago, the Parliament concluded that it owed the Government a regular six-month report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes and European structural instruments, such a conclusion was. But the Government of the Republic of Croatia only submitted five half-yearly reports on 2 March 2017, so after 2.5 years, the Parliament received a report from the Government which was due to be delivered as early as 2015. This entire material has cca 600 pages and covers the period from 1 January to 30 June 2016, which can be read is expected to start implementation of the programme and use of the funds by the end of 2015, that the start of the implementation of the programme in 2015, that the draft waste management plan was drawn up in December 2015, that, as a result of the parliamentary elections, it would be late with the adoption of the plan, that this would be expected by the end of the first half of 2016, etc., etc. which concludes that no one has actually read the prepared material and that everything stands with revisions and sublegal acts and with the creation of new strategic documents, action plans, so all that is necessary for a full use of money from our common register. So now we know what's going on at 30.6.6., but it's a question of what's going on all year, so from 30.6.6 to 30.6.7. Unfortunately, there is no response in the public or in the official documents as to what is the agreement of various projects from different structural instruments, and how much is the use. Just as he knows the most, let's call it such a colloquial word... so there are units of local and regional self-government, and there is also a very large number of stakeholders of Croatian society that can apply to funds, so I speak from entrepreneurs, farmers, energy efficiency, etc., so there is no answer to what is with the whole series of competitions. Also, what we can notice is that in all implementing institutions, agencies, ministries are exclusively doing new systems, changing procedures and changing people, but I don't see what the result is, so how long it's been, how much time it takes, and how much it's really focusing on what's important. Focusing on the importance is actually a focus on strategic documents and action plans that are a prerequisite for the possibility of using EU programmes and European structural elements. Finally, in accordance with Article 52 of that Regulation, by 31 August 2017 and 31 August 2019, the Member States are obliged to submit to the Commission a report on the implementation of the Partnership Agreement on 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2018, so there is no Education Strategy yet, and there are no different strategies necessary for the use of the funds, which means that in this case the European Commission may have data, and we have no such data, which we can conclude very strangely. And yet I say to the public there's a story that absorption has grown, but I don't personally see any official report. In conclusion, I'm saying that it's the money of the Republic of Croatia that we get from the EU because we're paying 3.2 billion kuna and I think it's the state administration and citizens. they have the right to know where this money is being spent and how. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38890	Thank you. We move to another debate, distinguished colleague Željko Glasnović, Club of Representatives for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38891	Dear colleagues. The most common word in this House is the Croatian state council's word for robbery. What's the genealogy of that robbery? And why is that kept quiet? Shut up everywhere in here, left, right in the center. When did that robbery start? Where do they get these roots from, Agrokor? What about state-owned companies until the '90s and the money that was stolen by the '90s and transferred to bank accounts outside to Villach and forgive Milan etc. And other places? It's money from UDBA, we know that the INA was the UDBA's, and today that money is coming back as a direct foreign investment, opening the ACI marinas with a UdBA hunt. Who cares about that in Croatia? No one. This one comes back in the '90s, the Berlin Wall falls, state-owned companies go bankrupt, and ex-friends run around like show thieves, nothing at all. Look at the origin of the assets of our Supreme Judges, former party comrades, the largest criminal organization in the history of Southeast Europe that is never spoken of, is privatisation, and no one is talking about it. The country's war comes from one kletocracy to another, eldorado, war profit, we say, does not obsess over war profit. You have, here's a concrete example, just one of those robberies in... An account has been opened for 200 million marks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one emigrant asks what's wrong with his money, pays 40,000 Swiss francs, asks for an answer, starts criminal charges, investigates until today, 50 times the state's attorney's office. He's running criminal charges against Mr Hrvoje Sarinic, the man who was in '93. the year brought the largest masseuse in Croatia when Croatia was at war... The lodge from France, it was in President Tudjman's office, as it was found there, I don't know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Answer, he doesn't get an answer. It says to the chairman of the Committee on Internal Affairs, Mr. Ranko Ostojić, we don't get any answers. But here are the two first years of the investigation and correspondence between the law firm in Klagenfurt and the Croatian state, until then nothing. It's just one of these actions, kleptocrats in the Homeland War and where's the money? Is it possible when we have today's digitization, we have a system... which is a global system that monitors the flow of money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a CNB that needs to monitor the flow of money into the state, outside the state. If we hadn't found any of those fair thieves by now. Where's the money? This continues today, you have a global organisation of the Global Financial Integrity Association, the GFI, which estimated that some $30 billion has been leaked from Croatia from 2006 to 2014. Where's the money? What are our institutions doing? What are the Secret Service doing? The Croatian people are asking for an answer. Because these people are more than fair thieves. And that's why we don't even have kindergartens, we don't have real functional companies, for such fair thieves. How is it possible that someone before the '90s didn't have a bike, today they have a job, and these are the Supreme Judges, they have some 750,000-euro property today, just one real estate, and what we keep quiet about it. This is all me some kind of smoke curtain here. Why aren't these people named? You can't bring in Canada, America more than $10,000 to keep someone from asking about the origin of the property. And they're setting us standards, here's the craftsmen working bloody, they come in for 200 unpaid kunas, they're looking for fiscal reports, and these heads have transferred millions, billions of dollars to bank accounts outside. What about our media,... The media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it hard to go to Austria, a private apartment and look for those 300 bills, say in your personal apartments, where you have billions of dollars drawn from Croatia. And that's why the state is where, because we primarily have the media, we don't have there, there's no investigative journalism. Because now it was hard to go to Austria, say, and look for the name of 14 families with bills of about $17.4 billion, forgive the kuna and who earn 50 million each year on that and where is the tax? Where's the tax on that money? It is terrifying, it is a key issue of the Croatian state because we have entered from one kleptocracy into another kleptocracy and are silent about it. And it's high time that, as you always say here, that mantra that institutions do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38892	Thank you. The third club, the HDZ Representatives Club and distinguished counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38893	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Last night, we also discussed yesterday afternoon the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to examine the circumstances surrounding the formation of Agrokor concerts, and we made it clear that we in the club have no problems with the establishment of any commission. However, if the work of the Investigative Commission were to be established and started after the investigation was completed by the State's Attorney's Office. During yesterday afternoon, we also heard a kind of blackmail from the Club of Representatives of the SDP that unless it is selected and appointed by the Commission of Investigation that it will not be elected in the Assembly by 3 members, 3 Judges of the Constitutional Court. For us, such blackmail is unacceptable because the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court is neither a concession to HDZ nor a choice of constitutional judges can be the subject of trade. Namely, the agreement on members and judges of the Constitutional Court arises as a kind of consensus at the level of the Croatian Parliament and at the level of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court simply allows one of the most important institutions besides the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, the Supreme Court, is certainly also the Constitutional Court, one of the most important institutions In this way I hold that there should be a consensus of all political parties in the Croatian Parliament whether or not we have achieved consensus on a minor point of the agenda. Therefore, it is unacceptable for us and we believe that until we reach a decision and vote on it, we will find a common decision. What I was about to say is that the proposal for a decision to set up the Research Commission is conceived in a way that includes time to create a concert from the 1990s until today, which means that the subject of research is not only this government, the current government of Andrej Plenkovic, nor the Government of Tihomir Oreskovic, nor the Government of Zoran Milanovic, but all of those governments that have conducted politics during that time and made it possible in one way or another in an indirect or direct way to create such a concert. In that sense, when an analysis of possible members of this investigation committee is made, we can see that there could be almost 50 MPs in the Assembly. When I look at the SDP club, then it is a very large number in the Government of Zoran Milanovic, on the right hand assembly also a large number of MPs who were members of the government, therefore we have no problem with the election of members of the investigating committee, but we just want to point out that already the names of potential members of the investigating committee are publicly listed, I argue that these representatives are in a certain way in conflict, in a potential conflict of interest, given that they were members of the government, members of the supervisory committees, HBOR etc. etc. Among the MOST members is also a significant number of government ministers who have been participated to two governments, so I just want to say that the interest of all of us is equal and common when it comes to the definition and selection and appointment of members of the investigative commission. We therefore believe that it is most appropriate to allow the DORH to carry out the investigation until the end, after the investigation is completed in the light of the DORH decision that, if the criminal proceedings are not initiated, it will then be clear that the judicial procedure will be opened to approach the appointment of an investigative committee with the precise powers, objectives and questions to which the investigation committee must answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38894	Thank you. The next club, the club of representatives of the HNS, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38895	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. HNS opposes the establishment of the commission, we made that clear yesterday through a statement, we did not feel it necessary to discuss here in the Parliament, here I am now taking the opportunity to express our position once again. HNS believes that it is interest not only us, but all of us here, Croatian citizens to shed light on the circumstances around Agrokor and everything that is written can be read from newspapers or statements here in the Parliament. But what is the purpose of establishing a commission? This Croatian Parliament has been in place for 20 years and since its founding, there have been several such investigative committees that have mostly had a political context. I believe many of you will agree with me, it reminds me, and I remember that period until '90. The years when politics judged and interfered in everything and everything, unfortunately today is a little different, but today's committees and those we had here in the Parliament are nothing more than that. Political court. Today, when in Agrokor it is practically, not perhaps an entire DORH but a large number of employees, people are conducting an investigation and lighting, I am convinced that the circumstances highlighted in the request of colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, we believe that the establishment of a commission as a parallel system, there is no point. Let's wait, let's see what happens, what kind of information or what we get from DORH, then I absolutely accept that if this House agrees, to establish an investigative commission and to establish political responsibility. This mentions HBOR, mentioned by the ministries, counterpart Bacic, here reminds me that the request to investigate the circumstances since the concert was established, I mean, I don't know how many people, well, would have been enough here, which we were not in the executive government in those 27 years of Croatian state, so the commission could be drawn up, however, the issue arises openly speaking, competence. Political responsibility, I understand, but it's a matter of competence to enlighten the circumstances. Let the DORH do his job, when the HNS is done, there's no problem with that and I'll say one more thing. This statement by counterpart Bernardic is absolutely unacceptable to us in the HNS, that the same level puts the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court and the formation of an investigative commission. My colleagues and colleagues, if we're going to accept it, put it in the same level of weight, then I think we need to ask ourselves first of all what our political responsibility is, I understand that there are political trades, etc., although it's not acceptable for me personally, but let's examine our conscience, I think the Constitutional Court is above that, far above that, and let's not succumb to cheap manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38896	Thank you. And the last club of MPs is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honorable counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38897	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, yesterday we received from Germany statistics official how many Croats last year have moved to Germany, 57,000, with that since 2013. 180 thousand are fewer Croats only according to the statistics in Germany. Let's wait for even more devastating data because many Croats go to both Ireland and Austria and Italy. At this moment, when we look at what my predecessors have been talking about, I see no reason why my colleague Bačić and counterpart Batinić are afraid of setting up an investigative commission, which is why the results of our departures, our young people, where 2/3 of Croatia remain empty. We have nothing to be afraid of, to talk about a concert made by the same political elites, and we have no reason to talk about the regulators who favored that concert, the great boss. We have no reason not to do this because of parents, old people following their children and grandchildren to other countries. Therefore, this commission should be unanimous, without concern and let the people know how the Croatian State was destroyed after the Homeland War after 9th century of freedom, which is why Croatia is now more empty than during the Turkish Empire and all the occupiers in this area. 2/3 of Croatia is empty, and we are discussing whether the commission, the parliamentary commission, should be a concerted Agrokor. Well, gentlemen, we've never had worse agriculture because of this concert, he destroyed all the OPGs, and as we have the most successful minister, while a man, a young man of several years who came to scratches today drank his own drinks a few days ago because of what an import lobby pleases foreign products to be twice as expensive as in ransom than that man from Vrgorec with his hard work and his sweat with his family can't stay in that area. Only in Dalmatia has the last 20 years since Split-Dalmatia County been a new reconstruction of 100,000 people is less. And that trend continues, that trend continues in the worst form. Did we fight for it to never be worse than now. Who are we protecting here? Are we protecting those who are located what MOST has proposed the Archive Act, that they are followers of this whole story. An ordinary man needs to know that. All demographics warn both Stertz and Akrap that we must go and revitalise those areas mainly rural areas. And what did we do? We also made the President of the Republic with our team, what did we do? We are afraid to establish a committee in Parliament in the key House, in Parliament where even HRT has not been able to make a television transmission that our citizens, our voters can see the course of debate and the purpose of the whole debate. Well, this House cannot be allowed, and the President of Parliament, I would ask him to have important, crucial points and everything that is happening in Parliament, our citizens have the right to follow on public television and that this is the humiliation of this House of Commons. Mr. President, stop and protect this biggest home because all day long you show only a prime minister and a certain person, so this isn't Korea. This Dom, from this House, came those in power there. They have to listen to us. MOST of Independent Lists today here is the law that will change things at least partially in terms of blocked ones. A few days ago, we had bank reports here. Look, only on fees and commissions of 4 and a half billion kunas land our citizens investing in Germany, Ireland, and that's why our youngsters stay. The money remains here, our young people would work here, and they wouldn't invest in Germany with our money. It's every year. Retirement funds yesterday. Half a billion each year, they take out pension funds for their benefits. That money's leaving the van, and we're not gonna talk about a done, blocked where the principal's impossible to get back. For this reason, I would like to ask you once again, Mr. President, to protect this House's dignity for Croatian broadcasting. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38898	Thank you, Comrade Bull. Since you've been saying it over and over again, I'm going to say it next. So there's an assembly TV on MAX and it's being broadcast 24 hours a day, so as long as the Parliament goes, that's how much television is going on. That's the first thing. The second thing, I didn't hear you asked for the same thing when the president of the Croatian Parliament was your President Bozo Petrov. I didn't hear you looking for him that way. I am not the editor of the Croatian Radio Television programme, nor can I influence it. I'm asking you to understand that, as you can't, neither can I. Okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38899	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I only said to protect the House anyone that the President is you or God Petrov or one of us. This is Parliament and this is a key body that was essentially elected by citizens and the government stems from this body, and Croatian broadcasting is the one that should be transmitted because it is public television, and not all people for MAX TV. Not all people do. I don't know where you live? Come to these rural parts that I was talking about, where the young people move out from, and you'll see if they have Max TV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u38900	Can you please write me a request to contact the Croatian Radio Television for 24 hours or how long it takes the Assembly to transfer to 4 programs or to 2 as it pleases, and then we'll ask for it or as a club MOST in any way ask for it from me, so I'll forward it to HRT. I won't give you my word because you broke the Rules of Procedure, you didn't say which article I broke, but you used that tile to tell me something. But okay, never mind, let's get on with the work. Good morning, distinguished parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. We'll get back to work. The item of the agenda is: Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, second reading of the P.Z. No. Six. But before that, we have announced requests for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45925	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the ministry, I welcome you all very much. So, before you there is a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act. In fact, day-to-day actions and practices have shown certain shortcomings and inconsistencies in the system, but also opportunities for abuse. Also, due to the current difficult economic situation and the social state's efforts to protect the most socially endangered categories of citizens, it is necessary to further regulate the Institute of Real Estate Implementation and, in general, the executive law. One of the problems proposed by this law is the protection of the perpetrators of natural persons, according to this proposal changes the existing legal provision under which real estate for housing is not considered necessary to meet the personal life needs of the perpetrators and persons legally required to maintain, and stipulates that such property is considered necessary to meet the personal needs of the perpetrators and the person required by law to maintain such property. However, this assumption applies only to legal obligations arising from the entry into force of this law, and in that case, the believer may be protected if the debtor has made a statement in the form of a legal transaction declaring that he is in agreement, that the intention of the verifier of the application can be carried out on his sole property. In addition, the amount below which shall not be principal, or the sum of principals shall be determined. And if you want to go to the expense of real estate, therefore, a single amount is set out in the bill, but right now I want to say that we will accept the amendment of one of our colleagues and that amount will increase. This law leaves the solutions under which the perpetrator has the right to use the property sold in business as a tenant for a year, from the date of the conclusion on the sale of the property, given that the protection is secured in a long way and that that solution has not been brought into practice. In fact, people who have been evicted from their apartments, they certainly have no rent after that, because if they had, they would probably pay credit rates before that, and this solution is abandoned, but we're introducing a more socially fair and socially accessible solution, that's so-called. right to accommodation. Therefore, this law lays down the right of persons who have been evicted, who have agreed to leave their own property, to have the right to accommodation of 18 months, i.e. to pay a rent for 18 months, with the amount of rent not to exceed 9 average net salaries in the Republic of Croatia during the year. It shall also increase the amount of salaries, pensions or other continuous learnt income of perpetrators that is excluded from the performance, in the event that the execution is carried out on the salary of the payee, pension or other monetary income, less than the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia, and shall complement the rule of limitations on the enforcement in the event of the application for the competent payment of the payment of the child support, in the case where the perpetrator has a net salary less than the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, this means that instead of protecting 2/3 of such salaries, we are going to protect 3/4 of such salaries or receipts. For the purpose of preventing abuse in the event of enforcement of wages, it is prescribed that the court may impose an order on the pay and the salary on which the employer pays the payer at the expense of the bank, where the execution is determined for an excessive amount of demand on the basis of the legal maintenance of the compensation incurred on the basis of impaired health or reduction, i.e. loss of working ability and compensation on the basis of impaired health or reduction, i.e. loss of working ability and damages on the basis of lost maintenance due to the death of maintenance providers. In order to balance the conduct and effects of individual decisions, as well as to prevent the abuse and enforcement of non-jurisdictions on the basis of false, counterfeited executive documents, that is, the basis for payment shall be equalised by the conduct of the financial agency in respect of the issue of transfer orders on the accounts of the perpetrators. In this regard, and since the transfer of funds is proposed within 60 days of their confiscation in all cases, therefore, regardless of whether the exercise is carried out on the basis of a powerful or inadequacy of the performance solution, i.e. other documents, which, in their effect, are significantly reduced by equalising with a possible solution to the performance, increase the protection of all natural and legal persons and potential abuses of the system. So we determine that 60 - day deadline in which the perpetrators who have been unfairly executed will still be able to react. The existing system should be completed in order to arrange the collection institute on the basis of the debtor and the creditor's balance sheet in such a way that, in the event of the execution of the charge on the basis of the debtor and the creditor's creditor's creditor, it is possible to postpone the transfer of funds for a period of 60 days in which the time-executor can use the right to the means at his disposal, thereby preventing any abuse of that institution. Also, the same thing I was talking about earlier. This law also introduces a special type of sanctions in the amount of 400 kuna for executives who, during court or non-judicial proceedings, have been double-settled in order to force the executives to withdraw the application for enforcement in due time in the event of their voluntary fulfilment of their obligation. The conditions for the acceptance of the proposal of the perpetrators in the event of double intention by the authorising officer shall be that the perpetrator demonstrates to the public or publicly certified correctness that the request has settled outside the scope, or where that fact is generally known or can be established by applying the rules on legal matters. What we can say is particularly true of the so-called. small accounts, teleopers, and similar ones that are often double-settled, and in this way we want to make them take a lot more account of it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the law itself has long been conducted by a public debate from which it is quite clear that there is a wider social consensus, that the existing Implementing Law is not just and that this is precisely one of the reasons why we have so many blocked at the moment. Of course, that's not the basic reason, but it's one of the important reasons. During the debate, we received a number of quality proposals from experts, institutions, parliamentary representatives. Some of these proposals came from our club, some of these proposals came from other representatives' clubs. It is precisely these reasons that we have decided as a legislator to accept the content of most amendments, although due to the very procedure of some of the amendments we will have to submit to something different, so I would like to stress in advance to colleagues who, even today during my presentation, will be aware that their amendments or parts of the amendments will be accepted, that they may only be found for the clarity of constructing the final law in something different, but the content will be satisfied. In the next few sentences, I will refer to the amendments that we ourselves will propose to those other representatives or clubs that we know at the moment, whose content we intend to accept. A bridge of independent lists, or representatives within our club, have suggested that we introduce a provision that if an executive does not charge his demand for the performance to be suspended during the year from the blocked accounts. In addition, if the authorising officer re-launchs the executive procedure for the same exact application for which the application has been suspended, only the principal of the debt and interest which is due from the date of initiation of the re-execution procedure shall be allowed in the new executive procedure. This means, in particular, that citizens who do not have any funds in their account at the moment and who are not charged for a year are not charged, the application can be restarted, but only the interest collected in that part of the procedure can be charged. We also intend to amend the amendment to establish that the limitation of the payment of cash claims by the executive correction of the performance by ten years from the day of its power, and the executive actions taken by the executive for the purpose of the payment of the money demand by the executive order do not cause a delay or an interruption of the statute of limitations. Dear fellow MPs and advocates, I don't think we should allow life-long pursuits in which our citizens find themselves and eventually pass on to their children if they are willing to be heirs to their property. It is obsolete to know the legal institute and we want to prevent what has happened so far, which is that the executive in his legal actions invariably extends the agony in which the perpetrator is. In addition, on the property which is the only real estate to be executed by the issuer under the law of the credit agreement, the issuer or his successor representative or claimant cannot launch the application if, under the same credit agreement, the creditor or the authorised person has received from him an amount corresponding to the principal of the credit agreement. In this way, we make it impossible to carry out real estate tasks in the event that the contractor or debtor has paid the sums paid by the principal until then. We think it's unfair if someone raises a 100 thousand-euro loan for real estate and in the meantime pays these 100,000 euros through interest rates and parts of the principal, that it goes into real estate after that, but that the executive should be instructed to charge from other cases of enforcement. As for fellow MPs or governmental amendments, I can say that most of the amendments that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made in the procedure will be accepted. We will also accept the amendment of MP Lovrinovic, which applies to the costs of the procedure in such a way that each party carries its own costs, we will accept the amendment of the representative Goran Aleksic, in which the amount of 20 thousand kuna cannot be carried out to 50 thousand kuna. We also accept the proposal to postpone the implementation if the dispute is under way over the unfair provisions of the loan agreement from which the decision comes. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we have an extremely important debate ahead of us. Many of you have given quality amendments. We heard and were ultimately witnesses of round tables held by the president of the Republic of Croatia who also spoke of a moratorium on the eve, which is unfortunately not a matter that can be carried out. However, through the proposal and today's amendments, and through the respect of the amendments of the MPs, the Most Quality Solution has found for us, on the one hand, to protect all of our citizens who have been peeling through this Executive Law for years, and on the other hand to enable all those creditors to collect their debts. I call on you to support the proposal of this law and the amendments of respected colleagues and the amendment of representatives of the Most Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45926	Thank you. We've got 16 replicas, so we're starting with our first, distinguished colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45927	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shimic. So on the one hand, we have believers who ask that what they've borrowed and given or in one way or another, and on the other hand we have debtors who can't actually do it. And we're in law, and you said this was an extremely important law, and I agree, and the complex law we're now interfering with the law to settle these relationships with each other. And I think all of what you've made me like a lot of things here, and I think it'll help in that relationship. And what I don't like and what I think, I'm not a lawyer like you, it seems to me like a healthy logic, and even in a criminal world, you know, when they hire those debt seekers, then the believer has to pay that debtor to do it for him. And here it happens that all the costs of the tight interest, of the public notary, I don't know what other costs that are incurred in the process, all the costs paid by the debtor. And that's why the debtor gets involved in situations he can't come from anymore, because he's getting more and more debt and he can't even pay off the principal anymore. But not to be as long as in that song by Kibiceri in the trance. These people on the side we call kibitzers, they don't do anything, they just watch and take money. Is there any possibility that the burden of the executive procedure falls equally upon both the believer and the debtor? I'm talking about those contractual relations, so, not those relationships if someone didn't pay for the alimony or I don't know in some other cases. So if someone has made a deal with someone, knowingly entered the business, if they initiate the procedure, is there any possibility that they could bear the same costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45928	Answer to the replica of Mr. Šimić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45929	Dear colleague Sagar, I agree with you, here's the data, here's what I've read so far, so I believe what came out of the total debt, out of about 40 billion kuna is just 8.5 billion majors, everything else is interest and other expenses. It shows us that we have one system that is deeply unfair. And not only is he deeply unjust, but we have one organized by me octopus behind it. So for every account that comes to you, for example. from some kind of plumbing, when you're going to run that bill, you charge you the costs of the execution, you charge the costs and the lawyer, then they do the work for you for another account you didn't pay. In this way, our citizens, firstly, public institutions and then our citizens who have to pay for these costs are funded by lawyers who work on these tasks. And we know that thousands and thousands of executions were actually assigned to several law offices in Croatia. It's a thing that's public knowledge. That is why I think that by adopting this provision that we will therefore, that everyone will bear their own costs, and also the one who is the executive and the one who is the executive, that the executive, much, much, long before he starts a certain procedure at similar lunches, will think 10 times about whether it will bring it all together in one executive procedure, or whether it will run separately for every single account and charge the costs of the procedure from the performer himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45930	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45931	Dear fellow Shimic, I think we here will pass this proposal of the executive law unanimously, most of the amendments given by the MPs are respected, so it will be part of this bill. We have a huge public pressure, including the president who supported it, means amendments to the executive law, not only those that will help citizens but also the full changes that should definitely be made. What was MOST's intensity from the beginning and we agreed with HDZ, and that was already one big shift, I don't know from under the average salary that it has to stay at the expense of not only two-thirds but three-quarters, from the fact that we're protecting citizens with the only real estate, so if the principal herself, meaning that it's not more than 50 thousand kuna, to offering replacement accommodation to those who aren't inside it. It means but also these new solutions that will unblock many Croatian citizens. So a lot of them are in a lot of trouble. We will now unblock a large part of these people with these amendments given by our representatives within the club MOST but also by other representatives of Aleksic, Lovrinović, whom I thank for these amendments and I think that today we here in the Croatian Assembly as we are in some other laws that were here and it was nice to see that we have one agreement. So in this sense, things are definitely changing in Croatia and I am personally glad that we were the drivers of these changes and that all other representatives of the HDZ, the SDP, the Live Wall representative, and all the other representatives who have given quality amendments have joined us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45932	Thank you. Answer to the replica of Mr. Šimić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45933	Dear counterpart Grmoja, I agree with the fact that this law, as you yourself have said, is the executive right as you have said, to experience a complete change, is what legal professionals are talking about and ultimately professionals within the Ministry of Justice. But what do we want with this change? We want to give air to our citizens, classify certain changes that one can call revolutionary, someone less revolutionary but that still go towards helping people who are in a difficult social situation but that on the other hand do not make it impossible for the believers, or those who are obliged to collect their debt. Like what? One of the provisions that we suggest that after a year that you can't charge anything from someone's account, that account is unblocked. That's where we don't think we're putting the faiths at all because I can't charge the debt anyway. And on the other hand, we help the perpetrators, the citizens, to catch the air, to start working somewhere, to work somewhere, because they don't want to get a job like this, but to work on the black, so to help them, give them some air so that they can finally get that debt back. But a debt without interest that has been collected for years and for which he is among other things guilty and such an executive law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45934	I thank the third replica, dear colleague Runtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45935	Thank you. Col. Simic, a colleague of Zhagar had already asked one question before, means the costs incurred by these long-standing performances. However, I'd like to ask you another question and give you some information that I got from FINA. So, according to FINA, on April 30th of this year, 328 872 were blocked by citizens, with a total of 42 billion and 190 million kuna, compared to 31.12. last year, it was an increase in the number blocked by 1696 and a debt of billions and 30 million kuna. One of the conclusions that can be drawn is that the executive law, as it is in principle, does not work. The main thing of these 42 billion is, therefore, about 8 billion kuna, so people are owed in principle 8 billion, and over the years, that debt has increased to 42 billion kunas, tight interest rates and other costs. Otherwise, it tightens interest, it's a hypothetical money that doesn't exist, which is expected to be an income for someone and pay for it, but I certainly can't do that for those who mean they have years of dead bills from which they haven't been charged or liped. So, my question is, how do you solve the people of these unnecessary costs that are constantly growing? So, from quarter to quarter, obviously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45936	Thank you. And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45937	Dear colleague Runtic, here's the fact that I said we have 330 thousand blocked, that 42 billion kuna is long, that the underlying debt is estimated somewhere between 8 and 10 billion kuna, says things don't add up. And now that you're still saying this information, that in a year the number of blocked has increased to something above 1,000, and the total debt has increased by a billion, it turns out that each one has been blocked by 8 and some thousand kunas, which, of course, is not true. It is, however, precisely the interest you are talking about, it is precisely this expensive procedure that is being conducted and which is not rational, that is not fair for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those in such a difficult social state. What I think we can do now is two things we've proposed now. The first is that citizens who have been accounted for for for a year have not been able to charge off the debt, and the second is to establish a statute of limitations, that executive procedures and executions cannot be carried out for life by us from our people, literally slaves, we place them in one slave-ownership relationship, and here we all have the responsibility to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45938	The fourth replica, dear colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45939	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Simic, you mentioned a set of amendments which, both by the MOST club and by other promoters, are a little difficult to cope with in this law now, I think this is, without being a budget, that one of the laws that may have been given the most amendments starting with the government and individual representatives and clubs etc. I am sorry that only in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law is not touched by articles 172. In fact, you covered Article 173 in your procedure, which we support, and we are talking about the amount of 2/3 of the salary, but Article 172 speaks of the exemption from the performance. Unfortunately, the amendment I have prepared cannot be formally adopted because it does not refer to articles that are in the original proposal, and it is in fact that we should exclude all annual vacation awards, Christmas holidays, travel expenses for the official use of our own vehicles, etc. So, we're talking about regress, Christmas receipts, resurrections, unfortunately right now, and we had the other day, and I think even in the media that you're still getting paid through the current account that the blocked citizens don't see, and that's certainly something that the legislator's intensities when he put it into untaxable receipts, should be respected in this Executive Act, and for that reason, we're going to have to go to new amendments and additions or possibly new Executive Law because it's believed that citizens are justifiably angry and that it should have been included, if not, it should be included any of the following, or the amendment or the new executive law alone. Also, with the amendments that you mentioned, regarding the order of charges on real estate, to try to settle down, I haven't gotten that amendment on the bench yet, to try to settle down with other movables, and only then on real estate, I hope that doesn't mean that it's going to be taken away first, and then if the entire principal of the loan came back anyway, the real estate, and that's not exactly dealt with in that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45940	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45941	Dear counterpart Curaj, as far as the changes are concerned, we are in the second reading of these proposals that you are talking about, I personally support, today or yesterday we received one email from the Independent Croatian Unions and SSSH, I think that, in fact, there you have seen in the end and these proposals, but they come late. All MPs could have gone with these proposals when we had the first reading in line, when we discussed it, we as MOST, here you can see that we have now respected a lot of amendments from our colleagues and amendments coming from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and therefore we are well-intentioned. However, at this moment, we cannot go to this amendment, and as far as the number of amendments are concerned, I must say that we are glad that both the professional and political public and the President of the Republic of Croatia and the clubs of the representatives, eventually the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that all together have helped to make this law as good as possible and fair as possible and ultimately be a concrete help to all those socially endangered citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45942	Thank you. Fifth replica, distinguished colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45943	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Simic, in your presentation, you spoke of one of the roles of the state, one of the roles of the state actually to deal with and care about the most vulnerable groups of people, the most vulnerable groups of people, in fact protecting their system, both education, health and pension. Yesterday, in fact, through a debate about pension funds, we could hear that sooner or later we would all meet as pensioners in one of these funds. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office has sent a proposal to you as a proposer that, due to the consistent application of this Article, the proposed final draft law, amending Article 173(2), will take effect 8 days after its publication in the National Journal. According to data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute at this time we have more than 28000 pensioners under arrest for either one or more purposes. It is impossible in such a short time, therefore by voting this law and by publishing in the National Journal that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute actually makes all these changes. So I ask you to consider this proposal and the amendment that I am going to refer to, which is that this implementation of this decision will be at least from 1 September 2017 when we will not do any damage to the pensioners, but prevent certain claims or damages to the Republic of Croatia. We therefore propose that this amendment should be made to postpone the implementation of this implementation until 1 September 2017, and the same is proposed in Article 47, which I hope you will accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45944	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45945	Dear colleague, we have discussed this, and in the end here, I can only confirm that we will certainly not bring into some difficult situation people who are receiving pensions. And you propose an amendment today during the debate. And if he's going that way, there's no reason not to accept him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45946	Thank you. The sixth replica is a distinguished colleague of Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45947	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I have to comment on the adoption of this law from the perspective of entrepreneurship, because we have been trying for years to find a way to prevent the black market while practically on the other hand, in parallel to how the number of blocked ones is growing year by year, we are actually encouraging the development of the black market because people have to live on something and these people have to work. Well, then they'd rather go work on black than pay most of their salaries on this loan interest. So what an impact it is on both the state and the development of the economy and the budget itself. I am extremely pleased that the MOST club is the engine of this kind of change that will affect entrepreneurship, as well as the attempt to shut down the black market. And I'd say here, I'd like to mention an example from Split. Two self-employed entrepreneurs, so starting their own crafts, were looking for grants, they applied, they got those funds that sat on their behalf at the expense of their joint crafts. However, one of them was blocked, so completed and blocked, but she did not know it, nor did she ever get any notice of it and those 50,000 kuna as they sat on the bill, so it took them away. Of course, after that, the supporter asks them to return those funds with tight interest that they have never even received at their expense, and they do not care that they have not been notified of their blockade. So here we are talking about one attempt by young and new entrepreneurs to self-employed, to earn their salary. Not only the salary, but also the contributions from which the state budget is being filled and from which our salaries are coming, and these are exactly the ones that have been prevented from doing so by this law. And that is why I am extremely glad that this will affect the development of entrepreneurship as well as I repeat the attempts to shut down this black market that we have practically encouraged all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45948	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45949	Dear colleagues, I agree that today's situation with so many blocked and so much debt that one of the consequences of the Implementing Law and the Implementing Law is now one of the reasons why this happened directly increases the black market. Because people who regularly carry out certain amounts each month, and every day depending on payments, do not see the point of doing their legal application, and the revenues are received into bank accounts that will eventually be paid back to banks for some of their loans. I've talked to the employers myself several times, so they say that sometimes they have trouble finding workers, people tell them openly, look, I'm blocked, I don't feel like signing me up, it's worth working on black. The employer doesn't want to, and the person after that doesn't want to do it. For this very reason, I think that the provisions in which bank accounts are not removed from any amounts are unblocked after a year and the statutes we introduce within 10 years we think that these are elements that will help one part of the citizens get out of the blockade and ultimately direct them to do their jobs legally in accordance with the law, to pay their incomes and taxes, and that is ultimately what I mean in the interest of the entire Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45950	Let's move on. Seven replicas, distinguished colleague Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45951	Dear fellow, if we look at the existential and historical-productive consequences of the executive law and refer to the analysis of our demographics, then it is clear that one of the leading causes of our productive population's emigration is precisely the blockades they experience in their country, that is, Croatia. We have seen how much this has evicted our population for the above reasons in 2016 and it is necessary to ask whether this proposal changes the executive law makes us stop this negative production, i.e. to stop the executive law from producing people in work and credit incapacitated.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45952	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45953	Dear colleague, the executive law here is what demographics tell us is one of the reasons for the large number of blocked ones, and then the reason for the large number of blocked ones is, that is, this fact makes many of them leave the Republic of Croatia. Saying that the change in this law would prevent it would be definitely too ambitious, but what we can say is that this is a good step towards helping these people in the huge problems in the end. Often he hears, here yesterday I spoke to some colleagues whose acquaintances are precisely due to the performance and blockages and that permanent blockades have gone from the Republic of Croatia and not because they escape from paying the debt, they will have to pay him anyway, but because the system as we have developed in the Republic and through the executive law does not allow them to live a man worthy of life. So I am sure that, by amending the executive law, we can also help these citizens in one way, but in order to be able to move out, there is much more quality and strong procedures for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45954	The eighth replica, dear colleague of the Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45955	Dear counterpart Simic, you have found, a problem with the performance and citizens under the influence of one of the most difficult social problems in Croatia. The number of citizens with blocked accounts is even significantly higher than the number of unemployed. The fact is that Croatia already has 3 executive laws today. Unfortunately, this also speaks of the quality of legislative activity in Croatia. And I would tell my colleagues, my esteemed colleague, a professor, from the Faculty of Law and Domicile Legal Science in the Republic of Croatia, Professor Dicka, told the executive law, "I will quote on the basis of 40 years of work in the university and in the process, I can confirm that the state in Croatia has done nothing to smartly organise the executive judiciary". That's what the professor who knows the law best tells you. So we have done nothing in Croatia all these years, all the authorities, all the ministries, all the gatherings of this Croatian Parliament. And today when we talk about this executive law, we are talking about an important step, to help citizens, and to make this executive procedure fairer, more socially sensitive, more quality, within the limits of what can be improved by this existing law, which, of course, is not the final solution that we would like in the Mosto to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45956	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45957	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, as I said, the expert public fully agrees that we must change our full enforcement law. And then when you have a sentence that you quoted from a respected professor, which says that Croatia has been back 40 years, so here in this democratic history it has failed to make yet quality executive law. Then I'm particularly surprised by the same thing when the calls are going, often times towards the Bridge, that this law doesn't change enough, that we don't go out enough to meet the debtors, that he won't help much. I'm surprised that, because if you look at the things that we talked about today and we're talking about during this whole debate, these are really concrete proposals that help, to the debtors who are in a difficult social situation, we haven't heard better suggestions so far, we haven't heard better suggestions. Because if we did, here we have now shown through the inclusion of the amendments and the acceptance of the fact that I have already announced the Government's amendments and certain amendments to our distinguished colleagues that we have heard of these better proposals and would have included them in the law. In our conviction, we have done the best we can at this time, to help debtors, not to damage or endanger the believers, and it is certain that before this government, the task of future changes to the complete executive law that will simplify the procedure, which will throw out some of the stakeholders in the process, who today charge high rewards and fees on the basis of the poorest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45958	Replica number 9, dear colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45959	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Coliga Šimić, these days numerous Croatian citizens are receiving gifts, gifts from HDZ, gifts from the Most Independent Lists, a gift goes to a writer, I will read to you the part "This way we inform you that from 1 January 2018 a property tax is being introduced, and the same is being determined depending on the location, where the property is located, the purpose of the state and age, or year of construction or reconstruction of the facility. Furthermore, in addition we provide you with a form that needs to be completed and returned by 30 June 2017 at the latest." Finally, the note ‘If, as a taxpayer, you do not supply the requested data, the tax liability will be determined on the basis of the data available with the highest coefficients established by the State and profit law’. So I'd just like to ask you, these changes that we see now in the 2 readings, which are a step forward in relation to the disastrous proposal that you made in the first reading, are they the consequences of a restless dream in the Bridges because of these gifts that our citizens receive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45960	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45961	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sincic, I'm glad you said that these changes are still a step forward. I'm sorry that we're not here if you insist so much on better changes that we haven't received any changes to the executive law from the ranks of your club or the Living Wall and these changes that can bring together the council majority around these changes. No changes that will sign possibly 15 MPs and will ultimately not help Croatian citizens, which would therefore be a complete shot into the blank. We, therefore, have led this law to a second reading, we have led it to vote tomorrow, I think it is a great value that the Most gives to Croatian politics as well as to Croatian citizens who are the most vulnerable to the tasks that are being taken into account every day. We've done a concrete thing. So we can decide to show up at every action, take pictures, film, increase the debts of our citizens, but what do these citizens have in the end? That way we can't save them. The amendment to this Implementing Law is a good step towards helping those citizens where you show up when they're being decommissioned, and in the end you never help them, we're going to help them. As far as real estate taxes are concerned, I'm just gonna say that we've had announcements and you've heard them from the finance minister that he won't be above the current utility fee and we expect that promise to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45962	Replica 10, dear colleague Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45963	Your Honor. My friend Simic, the fish don't smell like tails, they smell like heads. When we talk about the done, we have to say what caused their problems, one of the bigger causes, which is that it's about kunas, about euros, about hunting. It is about billions of whom some in Croatia have benefited greatly. So I will read here a few words from representatives blocked, he says: "By coming to power of the Kukuriku coalition Orsat Milenić and the parliamentary majority knowingly violated pre-accession negotiations with the EU and gave opportunity to non-constitutional bodies, public notaries and lawyers to create a million-dollar robbery of Croatian citizens by committing a crime against citizens and according to the state budget, and should be tried for high treason," reminds the secretary-general blocked. Furthermore, these same blocked ones had a lot of suicides due to their performance, due to the new situation, the inability to live in what the government has done to them, says Politics Damir Kramarić on 21 April 2016, these are the titles we read, and we're not talking about them here, we're talking about the Executive Law as if we're passing a law from the universe of NN persons and we're not talking about the main problem. What's the problem? The problem is the one who's sitting here with us who's affected that problem and escalating that same one. I hope that he alone will participate in the creation of these amendments that will change policy towards those who have done it to the truth. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45964	Reply to the replica of Šimić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45965	Dear colleague Culey, as for the responsibility for the situation in which we are located, I think that responsibility must take over all past governments. If I'm not mistaken, the blockades were introduced in 2010, it was the HDZ government back then, and as far as Mr Milenic's actions are concerned, he had his bad moves that made the situation worse, but what I can say was that he supported this law by his own actions and as the chairman of the Justice Committee this time. And as for the notary and in general the whole procedure in which the executions are carried out in Croatia, this is the task of the current government to make this procedure as simple as possible and, in my opinion, to get the notebooks out of the whole process. What we have as information from the Justice Department is that at this point it is not possible that the courts are not prepared for this and therefore it takes a little more time to change the law. However, the Independent Lists Bridge has done concrete things with this proposal for debtors, I stress again, to meet them and help them, and it has not made it impossible for the believers to collect their debt. And the government's task is to prepare, as soon as possible, a brand-new executive law that will simplify the process, which will remove stakeholders from the process that are unnecessary and increase the costs of the implementation to those who are most difficult. It's the government's task, and we heard it in an announcement that it would be done. I hope it's the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45966	The next replica, dear colleague of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45967	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Šimic, we have so far had one law, the executive law that craftsmen guaranteed their private property, but these small craftsmen mostly in 99% of the cases were not themselves to blame for their situation but politics, some people in Kulemer's courts and so on. And then we have one bigotry in that Mr. Todorovic made billions and billions of debts, and he doesn't guarantee his property, and the little, tiny craftsmen who actually came into this situation because of him have to guarantee their assets, so does this law solve that part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45968	Reply to the replica of Šimić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45969	Dear colleague Sladolev, here we have today the announcements of individual representatives that they will go in this direction and we will discuss these amendments as well. What I can say is that we recently brought here lex Agrokor to solve the problem of a system that created a minimum of 40 billion kuna debt, perhaps something more, is a similar amount of this where we have 330 thousand blocked. That is why I think it is the task of all of us, including Most, through the amendment of the executive law, but the Croatian government through the amendment of other laws that in the urgent procedures as we have brought Lex Agrokor, and for a reason we have then passed it, that it is according to emergency procedures that will ultimately help those citizens. It is 330 thousand people, including the craftsmen you are talking about, among them other natural persons, they deserve equal treatment, at least equal treatment as they deserve and deserves a major concert that has such an impact on the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45970	The 12th replica of the esteemed colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45971	Dear President of the Parliament. Here is Honorable colleague Šimić, I am very pleased to hear that you support the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the party Change Croatia, and it is said that every party in the process pays its costs. Why am I glad? Because it shows that on such important issues, we can work very well together, especially those at the political center. Because it's really true that we are the only ones who are going to raise these questions, that we are the only ones who are fighting this financial oligarchy, this mess in this country, and that we want to create a state that works and will be at the service of an ordinary man. This shows that we can also overcome some differences between us because these are so important issues for Croatian citizens that they exceed all our smaller or larger differences. That's why I'm extremely glad you're here to support this. Why? Because if this wasn't supported, I assure you that these changes to the executive law would be cosmetic. You have just made a very clear argument that out of 42 billion kunas the debt is only blocked is about 10 majors with regular interest. So over 30 are tight interest rates and various expenses. I'd like to distract you here. Please, let's make an effort to bring the moratorium for six months. The second thing is, let's all be determined to end the debt to the children after the death of the parents. It's unethical and we can't support unethical laws, they need to be torn down, we have time to discuss that if we need an amendment. And thirdly, lastly, there are Bandic's apartments. How many hundreds of apartments, I'm just asking you for three more minutes, which are paid for in them is the air, and people are waiting. [[The incursion of the president: colleague Lovrinović, I'm sorry the time is up.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45972	Thank you very much. Comrade Simic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45973	Dear fellow Lovrinović, here I thank you on behalf of our club for the amendment you gave and, of course, we were prepared to accept it because it is a single move that will nevertheless, as you said in this financial oligarchy that was created to reduce the collection of high, particularly legal costs, for every single account that comes from some public institution. We think it's a quality proposal, and as I said as a proposal we'll support it. As far as the moratorium is concerned, I must say, we must make sure that among the believers, sometimes there are children, or families through, for example. alimony, we wouldn't, I'm just citing it as one example, is a lot of these examples where really on one hand we have honest creditors who have the right to collect their demand, a 6-month moratorium, we're afraid that some groups would simply leave without any means to live. That is why we have not decided on the proposal, although it has been communicated several times and on a roundtable organised by the president and I think that it has even sent one such proposal to the Prime Minister. However, MOST has indeed guided this proposal with this principle of helping debtors, but not to prevent the collection of the debt that exists, the demand sought by the believers, in particular I say honest believers and those who are in a difficult situation, we simply cannot put them in the same basket with one move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45974	Thank you. 13 replicas, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45975	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Col. Simić, the current law has produced means numerous, so people who have become both credit incompetent and simply could not function and work and that is why people go outside, which is why we have 330 thousand completed and blocked in Croatia. In multi-year interest-level blockades, interest-rate rates exceed multiple principals, for 10 years blocked come in a position to become life-long debtors and slaves. This law solves this problem too, can you explain in what way? In the structures of total debt up to 50 thousand kuna there is a duty of over 220 thousand people, in which way, we, in this present way, will essentially prevent the operation and not to throw them out as so far on the road. And that is why I am glad that, here are all the political options that supported this MOST proposal, which is essentially the key to the problem of evicting Croatian people to third countries, sucking money from banks and public notebooks and other castes that created their empires in Croatia, while two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia become empty where people cannot invest because of blockades, where they cannot live, and therefore this law, all the amendments that our colleagues from other clubs have given, should be supported, should be considered. And of course this debate on behalf of the citizens, the people of the Republic, of all institutions and also the presidents of the Republic, the demographics who have joined this simply must all support and make this proposal the best of it, here and just explain to our citizens these few items that I have said, to which, which will cause these new amendments to the Executive Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45976	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45977	Dear colleague Bulj, here's a part of my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic's answer and it's connected to your question, so I'm going to point it out right now. So, with our proposal, we introduce the possibility, not the possibility, but the statute of limitations after 10 years, and so far it has existed, but every executive could have interrupted the actions he was doing within the process, and that performance could have been practically life-long. Now it won't be possible anymore, it will be limited for 10 years, so it immediately concerns those who are eventually heirs of persons who are in debt, so these debts won't be able to charge someone infinitely for one, two, or three generations. As for this fact that we have 330 thousand blocked, 220 thousand of those whose debt is less than 50 thousand kuna, by adopting the proposal that Mr. Alexic made to limit the performance under which the principal cannot be found or the total sum of the principals is 50 thousand kuna, it will specifically mean that these persons will not be able to complete their property, in particular we think, and that we will arrange the properties in which they live.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45978	Thank you. The last line, dear colleague Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45979	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In truth at this political moment, we see that politics and the economy are not protecting their people, I have already said that in this high House and we want to change these tendencies. Right now, politics and the economy have deprived and impoverished their own people. All of this is due to some kind of social, political and economic relationship that is what they are, and it comes from that famous criminal privatisation that Agrokor came from, so we know what we're talking about, is it? So he had the current political elite that Agrokor came from, and yet there are many, we have the same, and people don't want the Croatian State Audit to enter the CNB, they don't want a parliamentary investigative commission, and we don't want literally Mr. Simic, that life-longing slavery happens. And it hit me especially, and that's why I want to ask you next. So we have a total of 83% blocked, so of these blocked 83% carry a 96% debt, so a large number of accounts are literally dead, so they're neither charged nor dropped by them, and interest continues to grow and stick to all of that. It simply leads to the life-long debt of our citizens, people who are blocked. Please, how do I handle this?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45980	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45981	Dear fellow Orepic, the fact is that as a society, we often react much faster when the question is strong or stronger. And when it comes to the weak, we are looking for all possible ways not to pass any regulation, the reasons why it can't be passed, which is why a certain provision is difficult to apply or easy to apply, but when we do laws for those strong ones then the system not once, and not only in near history, but also in some distant history, do everything possible to make such laws eventually. The suggestions we're going with right now should help those who are the longest blocked. Help those who have nothing to say and open, legal incomes. Because if someone in the account doesn't even have a swear for a year, with which something can be done, do we really think that this man lives out of the air? No, these people then work on black, increase the gray economy, and unfortunately, I really don't think that's their fault. It's our fault as a system that we don't allow them to get air and that they can live a normal life and pay back their debts to the believers. I think that by amending this law and introducing it at the end, it's outdated, exactly what you said, what we have today, so some life-long exercise, that after the adoption of this law, which I believe will be all the constituencies, there will no longer be room after the adoption of this law, such debt slavery, there will be no more in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45982	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45983	Dear fellow Shimic, the Honorable President. Before I look back at the question itself, a little bit of statistics too. And this is that up to 10 thousand kuna, because FINA has very high quality data, by 30.03., I have 2017, is 118 thousand citizens, up to 10 thousand kuna, from 10 thousand kuna to 100 thousand kuna is 154 thousand 493. So this, when we look at what these numbers really are, we really need to find a way and we all agree that this enables, in particular, these 120 almost thousands of people, these are relatively small amounts, and large ones relative to the problems that are created. However, you said that again in statistics 4 and a half thousand persons, physical ones, and now I ask the question, are citizens or citizens of natural persons craftsmen, is over a million kunas, and that debt makes up 22 billion kunas. So half the total debt, it's a total of 4 and a half thousand natural persons or citizens, 22 billion kuna. It is really necessary to check why there is no traffic in citizens' accounts, that as much traffic as possible is channeled through citizens' accounts to release exactly this kind of debt, so channel it into legal systems, and not support illegal and black and gray systems, that's the whole point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45984	Thank you. Comrade Simic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45985	Dear colleagues, you're right, and I think I can say that I'm glad that HDZ ultimately supports the amendments to this law, which took part in the good part of the amendments to this law. The fact is that we have had a very large number of citizens with relatively small debts and therefore we also support the government's announcement that there will be write-offs at certain amounts, at this point we do not know what specific amounts are being done, but I am sure it will help with the deblocking. Our proposals are about to go in the direction of those citizens with the smallest debts and help. The fact that 4 and a half thousand citizens carry such a part of the debt, says that these are actually persons who accumulate the value of the debt and who perhaps through some of their bad business some part of them have brought themselves into this situation. And on the other hand, we have those 300 and a few thousand who have far fewer debts and clearly see that these are either unfortunate living circumstances or loss of work. I'm not saying that there are those who are unwittingly raising loans, but I don't think those far less than these people who have come into a situation where they're blocked and can't repay their debts. That's why I'm glad that today we have this law here that will allow, with the support of all of us MPs, that those who don't have any income, which isn't done as a rule for a year, they've been blocked for a year, so to speak, to breathe, to start making money. We have problems with the lack of labour now and entrepreneurs are complaining about it. And I said just before one of them told me yesterday he can't get a man to work, because he won't have anyone working unless he's black. Because if he reports it, the good part of his receipts goes to the bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45986	Thank you. Before I call the members, or representatives of the board, just two information. So we'll work without a break. We'll vote at 3:00 p.m. to supplement the agenda so you plan on planning around time. I would now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Law and Justice if they are interested in taking the floor. If they're not there, then we'll ask the government's representative to give the government a position. We have with us a distinguished colleague Josip Salapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45987	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the adoption of the proposed law of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists and its amendments, in agreement with the Proposer, so it considered and intervened in the nomotechnical and technical statement of this law by stressing that the Ministry of Justice had held several meetings in agreement with the applicant where the representatives, fellow MPs who had given the amendments, and in this part of today's debate, some new facts have emerged that would further need to be discussed, but this was not the subject of our talks or amendments in which the Government gave its opinion. So I would only look at in this brief statement what the government has confirmed with its amendments, what the Proposer has accepted. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to its amendments no-technical improvement in certain of the proposed solutions. The government proposes the obligation of the executives to obtain the OIB themselves, and to arrange a way to prescribe the possibility of obtaining the number of IDs. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to regulate and discuss the conduct of the financial agency and employers in the event of changes in the executive or executives. It also envisions the takeover of legal gain. The implementing law requires direct application of EU Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft law also proposes leaving the first-degree councils as second-degree bodies deciding on certain cases under declared legal medicines. It is proposed to disable and declare a legal remedy against a decision directed by the court to a party to a lawsuit, to increase what the applicant has said and to say the amount of salary, pension or other permanent income of the perpetrators excluded from the exercise. It is proposed that the transfer of funds in the implementation of the implementation of the enforcement order be carried out at all times after 60 days of confiscation and prevention of the use of counterfeit documents. It is proposed to enable legal resources to be lodged in the exercise on the basis of the debtor and the debtor's bianco. It is proposed to introduce a special fine of $400 for leaders who, during court or out of court, have twice settled in order to force them to withdraw a proposal for enforcement in a timely manner in case they have been given a voluntary commitment. Dear MPs and MPs, this is a reference to the amendments made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in that section that the government has adopted so far with meetings and decisions so far. I say, it is further necessary to consider some more open issues that have emerged today during today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45988	I thank Secretary of State Salapic. We have three replicas. He is the first of his distinguished colleagues, Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45989	Dear Secretary of State, given that I was a participant in the talks you mentioned, the fact is that we talked to the Justice Department as a representative of the promoters at the end on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists, that in one good part of the assembly of this law we talked to HDZ and we have things that we agreed on together. It is also a fact that the MOST of Independent Lists as a representative club held its meeting, assessed which amendments of other proposings we can accept, which amendments we can refer to ourselves. We decided to do it today. It is up to each of us to assess, so that the amendments here go in favour of those in a difficult social situation, which are due. If we don't think something goes in favor of those debtors, each of us MPs ultimately doesn't have to vote for those amendments. I am today as a proposing representative, I think I have clearly defended our proposals, and MPs will have the opportunity to show their will during today's vote tomorrow. As far as the government of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it is a good part of the amendments that we received at yesterday's club meeting, us as promoters and adopted. It is the amendments on the one hand and the nomotechnical nature, but on the other hand, some are actually going, so in a simpler definition of the process of increasing the court's powers, which we think is good, and as representatives of the motionors, we intend to accept. But we also intend to accept some of the amendments that go towards helping debtors and more than our original proposal. But we think it is the common interest of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45990	Replication response, colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45991	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Representative Simic, you have witnessed together with me our talks and agreements at the Ministry of Justice Mr. Alexic. It is important that this proposal of the law that you have proposed by the Government has adopted in a certain part of the intervention with its amendments. And nomotechnically, but also technically specific questions in order to achieve the purpose and purpose of these amendments and the addition of the law, we have clearly said that a number of issues are open and that new Implementing Law should be adopted. The Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia is working intensively on this. What happened today at the beginning of the session, when you accepted some amendments that we did not agree on in our talks and arrangements, so it is an obligation as Secretary of State to warn the public. What is important on both sides, to be before you representatives, the promoter, but to the Croatian public with clean, open hands, that the Republic of Croatia must have legal certainty in its action, towards all. So balance and balance towards everyone. So this law, therefore, has its own positive intentions, and you also know that we have to pass a new law, which... which is your proposal does not foresee repairing in a comprehensive, new executive law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we do not want to get misunderstood, to accept something that we do not communicate and which may have multiple legal consequences on the adoption of this law, without having opened a debate on it at joint meetings. So, therefore, open-handed policy, but technically legally justified, explain everything that we haven't talked about so far. That was my intervention on this exhibit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45992	Second replica, colleague of White. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45993	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say, on behalf of the HSS, that I am very pleased to listen to this debate today, that I am very pleased, that at last all parties that are perceived in the Croatian Parliament agree on certain things and ask, there is Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Prime Minister, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to respect all amendments coming from the opposition benches, because there must be no position and opposition in this matter. I think that our interest is common, I'm sure, not that I think, but I'm sure that our common interest is to protect in some way the weakest in Croatian society, so people who are obliged and who are unfairly placed in a worse position than everyone else. I ask you, therefore, as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not to screw up this time, because so far you've screwed up many times, so you don't screw up, and you won't screw it up if you listen and respect the amendments that they've created, they're colleagues from the Bridge, but also us and the other parties from the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45994	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45995	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Beljak, I have not seen your amendments to this bill, nor have I seen you at meetings where we have discussed professional important, legal issues related to the consequences of this law. What is important and what I want to stress, as you have called me as a representative of the Government here, that the aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect the most vulnerable groups of Croatian societies, and I repeat, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia is an expert working group. Our ministry is preparing a brand-new executive law that will address all open issues. So don't be hitting on our own bad will on this. I just warned the public that certain open issues, we need to clarify to the end, so that there will be no consequences for the legal security of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45996	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45997	I'm sorry, I have to react. I really meant nothing more than to commend you. But since you've been calling me, I don't remember since you've been here. I remember that you were here, that you were in HDZ, that you were in the HDSSB, and you were a parliamentary representative. Article 385 B, so don't mess with me. [[/Employee: Comrade Beljak, just a minute, tell me which article of the Rules of Procedure is injured?]] I commend you so, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. [[Intruder: That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45998	Comrade Beljak, just a little bit, therefore, you have shown the basic ignorance of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.../Intruding Beljak: You have shown the basic knowledge of political love, because you are the President of the Parliament, and you have also been with Sanader, and with Kosorica and Karamark and now you are with Plenkovic, which you have shown./... Comrade Whitey, you're acting rudely first, that's the first thing. The second you violate the Rules of Procedure, the third, you are gone for days in the Croatian Parliament and now you come here and teach lessons. That's not correct. So please don't do that. A fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u45999	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, the Croatian government has given nomotechnical and technical changes and the changes are welcome to welcome the other amendments that have come. However, the fact is that at this point, everyone, meaning prominent demographics warn that 330 thousand blocked people, up to 50 thousand kuna, are even 220 thousand people. The economy is blocked. People go to other countries, we see indicators. Empty 2/3 of Croatia. With this law, amendments, colleagues Alexic who gave it to 50 thousand kunas, so who won't support it, if we unblock people, we open up space for them to live in their properties, to work in Croatia, not to let their children run away. Who's going to have these 10-year-old blocked accounts, which are going to become blocked accounts for life. Well, we can't keep people in slavery. People are in slavery until some tycoons have become rich and brought these people into this slavery. Well, we can't have a state and law, a judicial system exclusively for individuals. This is one thing that must be common to the Government, and we see that the President of the Republic, with his team of experts, are also engaged demographers and legal experts who are in this direction, the whole people, all the experts, the president of the Republic, the institution, all of a sudden there should be something waiting. These people have nothing to wait for. Last year alone, 60,000 people went to Germany in 2016. Well, your Celebrity is empty. Your farms are empty. Because of this law most of all. Because people, individuals, are holding the economy together, while banks and public notebooks create their empires for us, and such a country is captured, and people are driven out of our Republic, the most beautiful country in the world. So, I ask you all together and with the government to accept this proposal, because there is no reason why parliamentary representatives should not raise their hands for this in the interest of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46000	Thank you. There's no response to the replica. I thank you, so we're going to have a discussion. I'm opening a debate. It is the first club to represent the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the esteemed colleague Alexic. The first part and the second part of Sincic. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46001	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the ministry of justice, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments to the Implementing Law that I believe will greatly help people to pass the new Implementing Law. First of all, I have to congratulate the Most on the work of that first proposal, and I have to congratulate the HDZ because after the conflict with the Most, I have to say that they had a certain conflict, that the Bridge has come out of power, but yet HDZ has shown that it is not vindictive but that it is moving towards cooperation and that is a very good thing. And this is an example of how we can do other things together. So we don't need to fight, fight, we need to work together here in the Croatian Parliament because we represent society, and society expects us to work for society, not work for our political tribe, it's completely irrelevant. I'm little alone here, from my party there's no one left but me here, so maybe that's why I'm talking there because I don't need some political rating to come through the Croatian Assembly. However, it is good that this cooperation exists, it is good and what happened yesterday, we know that the two laws are addressed to the procedure and these two laws will probably be on the agenda in autumn. But let me move on to the executive law now. I thank you for accepting my amendments regarding the size of the principal under which the real estate cannot be completed. You said it was gonna be the only real estate, I think it's okay to be the only real estate. I thank you also by accepting an amendment that will not be possible to execute the debtor who sued the bank, that's a very good thing. Meanwhile, between the two discussions, the proposal was also accepted that the only property that has no mortgage could not be completed, of course the definition is slightly different but relates to a property that has no mortgage, it will not be able to be completed. I had one proposal that wasn't said to be accepted, but I'm gonna ask to vote for it, so we'll see. So I suggested that no property could be executed that had a mortgage from a contract that had unfair contractual provisions. Since this has not been accepted in advance, I will certainly request a vote for that amendment. Okay, you're saying it's going to go, so great means you won't need a vote for that amendment, great. I have also proposed an amendment to allow a debtor who can no longer pay his debts to ask the bank for a letter of intent and to allow him to sell real estate for a value of at least 80% of the principal value. I also proposed an amendment which is not exactly where I proposed it because it is part of Article 102, but since Article 102 was not part of the amendments, I proposed it in another article to allow the sale of property below 75% of its value. We know that the current provision at the public auction can't be at another public auction can't be below 60%, but I suggested that it be 75% of the value of the property, but if still it would be sold below that value because that provision allows it to be 60% of the value of the property, in which case it must write off the rest of the debt if some debt remains. The Live Wall and SNAGA Club, meanwhile, has proposed some other amendments, so I think one of the most important amendments that I think is acceptable, and it's about craftsmen. The craftsmen are actually natural persons and there is a question of whether or not to apply that provision to craftsmen that it is not possible to carry out the only real estate in which the natural person lives, unless the property has a mortgage. In a court of law, a doubt could arise, whether or not it applies to a craftsman who is in debt. In order to avoid this doubt, it is then proposed to add to that item, which states that such a property cannot be completed, to add to the provision that it also applies to natural persons carrying out the registered activity. So they're craftsmen, OPGs, so there's a situation. Here's how much I'd like to talk about it. I will certainly vote for amendments to the Implementing Law and congratulate both Most and HDZ on quality proposals and I know that soon a new Implementing Law will be done, this will be just some sort of bypass to this new Executive Act and I think there is no reason not to vote unanimously on these amendments and supplements because it will not last long, and perhaps save a hundred families, those hundreds of families of Croatian gold are worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46002	Thank you very much. He will continue on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA, the distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46003	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Debt slavery is also prohibited by condemning practices around the world, we also have it in UN conventions and numerous other organisations. Let us then ask ourselves why several years ago the executive law in the form in which it was adopted, which allowed such an increase in the number of completed, the number of blocked, such an increase in the number of operations not only from one home but also from other properties. So if they were to draw the line and wonder why, why would someone do it, the only thing I could think of was to throw as many citizens into first debt slavery as possible and another economic reason to get their hands on real estate. The executive problem, of course, is not only covered by the Executive Act, but we can also say about the Banking Act and that personal bankruptcy, then the one about the billing, etc., but today we are talking about the heart of the problem, it is the Executive Law. This is some progress compared to the disastrous proposal from the first reading. We are not satisfied until the end, the other problems that are not solved here, which is the protection of the only home in all cases that will one day become me believing and fighting for it and at the world level, the fundamental right of all human beings. Secret mirages are still allowed, long-term blockades continue, and accommodation at 18 months is only a temporary solution. As far as actions are concerned regarding mortgages and properties that are not mortgaged, most of the actions that I have witnessed and if you are looking at Greece, Spain is also a big topic, mostly on apartments, houses that are the only ones on which the mortgage is. That is why we need if not now, then in the fundamental changes to the executive law that are necessary, because what is proposed is basically only cosmetic changes. If these amendments are accepted, that's very good. However, we need a thorough change that should have been made a long time ago to solve all these problems. The state of blocked persons is catastrophic, yes it is, the problem is to get a job if you're blocked. In a job interview when you say you're blocked, there's a break in that interview, it's hard after that to convince someone that you'll even have money to get to work for the first month on the first salary. Such persons are permanently excluded from all kinds of life, economic, legal, especially if they are older people. There's then a series of regressions with so-called. the receipts that should be protected. In practice, I have testified that what should have been protected is known to happen that it is not protected. Of course, psychological consequences and everything else are inconceivable, and it took a long time and not only to pass a law like this, let alone wait so long to change it. We've given a dozen amendments to the Live Wall and the Power Club, they're not in the process yet. I've contacted the motionor. He'll be notified shortly after my hearing. Some of them I'm going to mention here now. So Amendment No. 1, this is the case if the executive procedure is initiated to settle a principal amounting to less than 1000 kuna so that in this case the execution is not initiated at all. In this case, it is not only the goal of saving the perpetrators but also to prevent any legal houses rich in 100 kunas from earning 1000 kunas. Such a proposal would prevent a number of such malfeasances and small-scale robbery. The goal is also to relieve the judiciary. It wouldn't be a huge number of objects anymore. And, of course, the point is to unify the execution because it's forced the executive to pull the trigger. Amendment No. 2 concerning the craftsman, the amendment of fellow Alexic, who has already explained it, you will receive it in writing. Amendment No. 3 As far as this 20 limit is concerned, we have heard it later, and at the time of writing this, it was not known that 50 thousand kunas would be accepted, which will be the proposaler, but we will see how this right will react. Our proposal is to put the principle of proportionality, i.e. to make it 40% of the estimated market value of real estate. Furthermore, Amendment No. 4 concerns, therefore, because the only real estate in all cases is not already protected, since this change will vote on the accommodation, we suggest that all even those who resist this accommodation be offered. Why not? Are they fewer people? Isn't it someone who didn't want to go out peacefully, who warned against crime in his case, who invited others to solidize with him, who didn't turn tail, doesn't he deserve to get to that 18-month apartment? Of course he deserves it. Because if it wasn't for those who were shouting loudly, they wouldn't have changed this law in 2017, maybe 2025. Furthermore, Amendment No. Five also concerns a craftsman. Amendment No. Six, too. Amendment No. 7 So it's about penalties for non-data. Therefore, Article 42(2) of your proposal is amended in a way that a fine of 2 to 5 thousand kunas will punish a natural person for the infringement referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, that is how we are proposed to impose a lower penalty on natural persons because we believe that the penalty currently prescribed is too high. Amendment No. 8 is a penalty for banks if they don't notify the perpetrators. The penalty increases for banks because we think the current penalty for banks is too small. Amendment No. 9, therefore, the proceedings under way before the entry into force of this law will be completed by the application of the provisions of this law, regardless of when they are launched. So if we can have a provision like this in the law on RBA cooperatives, so to speak, why can't we have it in this? And finally Amendment 10, as regards exemption from enforcement, is added in article 172 of your proposal a new point of 6 which is read, regress-based, Christmas, resurrection, severance or jubilee award to facilitate the post-work period. It's just some touch points like this. I'm going to hand over the paperwork, and I hope you accept as much of this as possible. Anything that comes that's constructive we will, of course, support. We have seen the suffering of both the perpetrators and the debtors, the suffering that should never have happened, and on whatever side the good idea comes, we will certainly support it. Let us hope that, for the end, I would just say, in the proposal of the law that I submitted in 2016, at the beginning of that year, during Mr. Tihomir Oreshković, on April 29th, we specifically cited one another, a much stronger proposal, among other things, to amend Article 45 on the date and handover of property to the head, the court must inform the executioner at least 8 days earlier. The team prevents, disables a secret operation because someone can literally at any time, and I've seen that on one three to five cases, without notice, you have to get out. It simply violates the principle of party equality. If an executive has been informed when the accommodation will be decommissioned or emptied, he must also be the executor. So much for now from the Live Wall and the Power Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46004	Thank you very much. First we have the replicas of the presentation of the distinguished representative Gordan Aleksic. First respected representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46005	Thank you very much. Comrade Alexic, you have participated in your proposal, and indeed, colleagues Lovrinović and HSS and HDZ representatives, the SDPs, should all bring together what is in the interest of our citizens. People who are a large part become debtors for the rest of their lives, essentially become slaves, become addicted, and that is what we need to bring unanimously and all the proposals, as well as the government, these amendments she has made, although we have technical nature that she should also support this and your amendment, which is really good, colleagues of Lovrinović, and the MoST amendments which also mean preventing huge problems in the Croatian society that are... I repeat that 2/3 of the RH is empty, there is the President of the Republic of Croatia with his team, there are all demographics who have also pointed out to their proposals that this law, which 330 thousand people hold in blockades. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A number of craftsmen that simply cannot go forward in this society, the only ones who make money are banks and means public notebooks and societies that exorcise these debts. Therefore, this is a law that adapts to man, which adapts to the current economic situation, so far the law has braked economic development, corrupted demographics, encouraged youth outflows from the Republic of Croatia, and therefore all together, we need both the Government and the President of the Republic, associations, parliamentary representatives because we are bringing this here and I hope that this will be accepted unanimously, in the faith that the Croatian economy finally comes to life and that there is no more debt slavery in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46006	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46007	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, thank you for the words you have referred to, I must say that, you said that the government only sent new technical proposals regarding the amendments, not only newly-technical, the government has prepared several amendments that improve further legislation, further enhance it and further protect and citizens, but also believers in the event that it is not just that the believer is not protected. So the government was very constructive on that side. Also, I don't think it's a radical thing, if it seems to someone that they might be radical in these changes, I don't see that anything radical, it's the first thing, and the second thing, these changes are just a bypass. It will take half a year, nine months, as long as it takes, to pass the new Implementing Law. So it's not a radical measure. A radical measure would be to place a moratorium on the executive law, not to apply until the new Implementing Law is adopted. So there are no radical measures. This is a bypass to the new executive law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46008	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46009	Dear fellow Alexic, I think that from the very debate here being conducted clearly we have one agreement that this is an unsustainable situation. You said if we helped 100 families, we'd do a big thing. I think we're gonna help a lot more than that. This is about amendments from these amendments of yours to the amendments of my colleague Lovrinovic, but also the amendment of the MOST club where it will happen practically that a large number of people will be unblocked. That their interest will be written off. So we have an amendment means that if we have a year's dead account from which nothing can be charged, to suspend the execution, that it can be restarted by the believer but without those interest that were up until that moment. How many people we'll just unblock with that. And allow them to start over. Or the situation that we will no longer have a life of debt slavery, because if something can't be charged in 10 years, it means it can't be charged. These are amendments that are not, as you said revolutionary, but will help many. I think and from this debate is visible, here is my colleague Beljak supported, so they support their colleagues from HDZ, support their colleagues from the Living Wall, give some other amendments, colleague Lovrinović supported and gave a very important amendment, we have one general agreement here in the Croatian Parliament. And this is nice to see, I think we're all here together, we've put our differences aside and put our citizens first, and I think we should all be focused.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46010	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Hrvojo Runtic, and I'm sorry, the reply of the esteemed representative Aleskic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46011	I thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, Grmoy, I haven't expressed myself well enough. When I said it was going to save 100 families, I thought from the raid, there's no raids, and you're absolutely right, it's going to save thousands of families maybe from the blockade, and maybe tens of thousands of families. It may unblock, and I have no idea now, but it'll unblock a lot of people, that's important, unblock our buildings, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46012	Thank you. Now, the distinguished representative, Runtic, will speak his own line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46013	Thank you. I'm sorry, I was running, so I didn't hear Nikola say anything. But I'd like to look back on something that you've been saying to your colleague Alexic, and that's it, it means community. That's one word we've been listening to in the Croatian public for years, and I'd say that community when you're surrounded by like-minded people doesn't really mean anything. And this may be an example of what is rarely seen that the world-wide or other differences between people who have been distributed by different parties fall into another plan and that, therefore, comes first to what is important here, and the important thing is that this executive law that's been doing literally horrifying on the ground for ten years, which is on the ground you know it from the Living Wall and some other fellow Bulls that we've spent years on the ground and we've seen that it's actually a humanitarian disaster. And that means that word, or meaning, in practice, that word commonity should be expressed. So here we really need to be focused on the most vulnerable people in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46014	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46015	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Runtic, that community doesn't mean we all feel the same way. Community is, in fact, the unity of people who are being nurtured pluralism. So, in this House of Highs, you need to cherish pluralism and you need to listen to everyone who says, as they say, get to the core of what he wanted to say. Maybe now is really the moment that we came up with some slightly different way of talking to each other, because we're talking about a subject that's important to society, so there's probably not going to be any other tones like that. And I am very pleased that there seems to be a consensus on this proposal and that we will unanimously adopt amendments to the Implementing Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46016	Thank you. And the last replica of you is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46017	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Alexic, so you emphasized it in the replica here in the debate, and also mentioned by the prominent government representative Mr. Salapic. So this is where the story just starts. What we all expect is a new law that the government must pass. There is a consensus about this law because we all believe it will help many Croatian citizens. However, the state has a duty to bring about a fair and new law. Because the state, you see, I've been following these here for a while, something has been written by the media. The State shall charge value added tax on these procedures in the executive procedure on all of these, drawing up proposals, public note fees, certificates to be issued. And what's the added value? A value added if a man creates, if he works, not if he's blocked. There's no added value there. So, the state set itself up as well, and these are all in the process from the debtors to the believer to pick up their share of the cake there. It's not a good message from the state, the state has to pass a fair law. Here it has been mentioned many times, there is a Slovenian model where five judges, watch out for five judges and sixty employees are doing all the work of performance. And I think it's like in medicine, if you specialize in a number of judges to do it, then it's probably going to be a lot more quality than in this way, where everyone is lurking, it's literally vertices. I can also see these where the representatives of the Living Wall are going to deluge, and there are probably ready for anyone to buy those properties. It's a one-story story and all the greasy mustaches, and in the end the man that the state collects added value he no longer has anything to add, there's no more value. Because if someone, and my parents did, I remember in the '80s buying the connection that was called at the time the phone company. Well, that wasn't cheap two, three thousand marks, 40 years or whatever we're paying T-com. What about tomorrow when I can't pay for that phone? That's what someone's gonna tell them, and now these don't work, and now we're gonna take your house for that. Here, I think that message is clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46018	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46019	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm going to say very briefly on this presentation of your colleague Jagar next. The fact that there are about 40 billion debts, eight billion of which are the main ones. So, that tells us all about how the executive law pleases someone to make money on a debtor, who's in debt, and that's actually El Dorado for a variety of gibberish, I have to say. Why was it allowed for companies, companies, companies, through lawyers to charge the charges? So they have their services have their lawyers. Why do you need to hire a lawyer and then pay that lawyer the one who owes him? This is likely to change the new Implementing Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46020	Thank you. And now we have one replica of the presentation of the esteemed Vilibor Sinčić, which is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46021	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sincic, I have two specific questions for you. I've been listening very carefully to your exposure. I'm getting messages from the citizens these days and one of them is next. Why is there discrimination in blocked citizens at the payoff? Why? The largest number of citizens now get, say, workers who have such luck get a regress for summer vacation at their expense. And if he's blocked, as soon as that money sits down, he's done, he's done. Right? While the other part of citizens in public enterprises receive the regress by paying off cash. Do you think it's discrimination or that it should pay everyone in cash that these people at least take advantage of those maybe a few hundred or a thousand, two thousand kunas for a summer vacation, to take a break, to come to their senses. And secondly, it says here in the draft of the law that 18 months will be done by the performer, meaning the one who is left without real estate that will be found in his accommodations. Well, here's what we know about these Bandic apartments. We were in the Jelkovec village together. There are several hundred imagine apartments that the city of Zagreb has been paying Zagreb Holding, and there is only air in it for years. So we have a solution for that. What do you think is simply socially acceptable, that flats stare empty, and people are thrown out on the ice, not even a tent. Where there's social sensitivity, where there's concern for a man, because we know that these people, the families, are in one desperate state, when they're thrown out. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46022	The answer of the esteemed representative, Ivan Willobor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46023	A colleague of Lovirinović, you have asked one of the best questions that can be asked about the consequences of the raids and blockades. Yes, as far as payouts and regresses are concerned, we've heard recently from fellow Lalovec that about 1.5% of GDP is being taken by banks on various charges. The banks are too strong in Croatia, in Croatian society, it should be torn down, it should be fucked, it should be put where they belong, so we moved the Tax Act to an active bank, which unfortunately, the government rated negatively, because they found it wrong. Whatever. So wherever it is possible to reduce the bank's role, go hand in hand to debtors, especially if we know what the average incomes in Croatia are. If anyone wanted to get paid on his hands, they should be able to pay him and not just regress, but pay him if he wanted to. Enough of this terror banks. That's my opinion you asked me about. As far as Bandic's flats are concerned, here, if I recall, the State Audit, how many 31 billion, if I remember, are worth property owned by the state. There on the stairs in Jelkovec, it is true that the entire village is as empty as some small town in Croatia. Unfortunately, this neoliberal capitalism has led us to a state where we have people without apartments and apartments without people. Where we have houses without people and people without houses and we know how many of our real estates and governments are going down because we just didn't get them... or write down where we managed to manage them well, so that absolutely it should have been given long ago to people who are, if necessary, with some acceptable conditions for them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we had the opposite case, not only did we not give it to them, but what they had happened to the banks, the policies favoured the banks in one way or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46024	Thank you. We will now move on to the next Club of Representatives, which is the Mosta and the Independent Lists in the name of which the distinguished representative Hrvoja Runtic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46025	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs. What we are talking about today, looking at statements from experts recently in the public, including the presidents of the Republic, prominent judges like Mislav Kolakusic, so I think the minister of justice, the current Mr. Bosnjakovic, is obviously in public quite broad support. A large part of what has been publicly communicated for a long time that it is necessary to do about blocked, or executive law, in order to protect the most vulnerable people in this society, it is also contained in this law amendments, but as Alexic often likes to say, we have made sure that this is within what is possible. Therefore, in front of the Alliance of Independent Lists, I call once again on all MPs and MPs in the Assembly to support this law and amendments because this is primarily about one agony of hundreds of thousands blocked and members of their families. Some estimates say that people who are directly and indirectly affected by this blockage problem are between 800,000 and millions. However, many of these people have already moved out of Croatia. We don't have any information on how many people from Croatia have moved out. Well, we can only guess, and then the guy who likes to say less, he says less. Who likes it more, says more. Now, the executive law, in my opinion, is one question, it's a legal question, and the question is 330 thousand blocked is a more social issue and since it's 330 thousand people who have their families, since it's more than 42 billion kuna debt, I think it's also a humanitarian disaster in Croatia, which I just said. Because that's where the story has to be introduced and the number of evicted from Croatia and many broken and destroyed families, and unfortunately, there have been many murders, as counterpart Culej mentioned earlier. For years I was at the gym and documented in Slavonia the most and Baranja, the effects of the executive law in practice. And what I've recorded and documented in those few years is indeed a humanitarian disaster. I think the average parliamentary representative, about the problem blocked knows about, like, two, three things. The first is that there are 330 thousand, the second is that they owe 42 billion kuna and the third is that it's terrible. But I had a chance with my colleagues, so almost two, three times a week to go around the people who were victims of that executive law. I've seen people who have only a couple of hundred kunas and live a little with some gardens, etc. Some are without electricity, some are, so many families have broken down, etc. All these are consequences, unfortunately, of blockades that are not being implemented as they should be implemented. So, in other countries of Europe and the world, there is some form of these blockades, but I have not seen it done like this in Croatia. I recently had an example where I saw a solution from a court in Germany where a man was ordered to suspend a part of his pension to pay for a debt that is approximately 25 thousand kuna, calculated in kuna. The man has a thousand euros in pensions and the court has made a decision that the maximum that can be denied monthly is 20 euros. So the Implementing Law is a legal issue, and 330,000 blocked is a humanitarian and social issue. And I agree with the need to pass these amendments to the IAS, even if a new law needs to be written that would be much more effective, because these long-term blockades that put interest on people. They don't actually go to the hands or the perpetrators because let's say that Nikola has a firm I owe him ten thousand kunas, he's in the interest of getting those ten thousand kunas as soon as possible, and not for nine years with tight interest because this month he has to pay the electricity, the employees, the contributions, etc. So if he's gonna wait out of 50 debtors if he's a small firm or a micro firm if he's gonna wait ten years to collect those debts and he's gonna come into the same problem that I'm in and it's not even a vicious circle that's actually one... Exactly, it's a deadly spiral that always goes down and every time we think it's at the bottom then we realize that these bottoms have infinitely many. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the executive law is on the ground in practice I would say that I would turn a large number of people who are healthy and able and willing to work in the military working and credit incapacitated, and at the same time on all sides, here lately we hear that the hook is doing a lack of labour. There's a labor force, of course, but these people have said before, when they come looking for a job, please don't report me, give me your hands, people have to live on something, and then they're working on black. So 330 blocked damages both to the state budget and to the economy, in those 330 thousand people are trapped and certain economic potential, many of these people would start some small trades, companies, hire one, two or self-employed, pay contributions, spend here in Croatia, pay taxes, charge the state's register means when we put aside clean this compassion with people who are in trouble, purely looking at this is not good for the state either. So these same people who are here in Croatia are credit and working incompetent, to express themselves vividly, by buying a ticket, by plane tickets to Dublin or Munich suddenly become workable and after six months and a year and creditworthy, and so some of them even there in Ireland or Germany can't get credit here for the next 150 years or their grandkids and pay back their debts here. So sometimes even in public you can hear that the Croats are lazy and then those lazy Croats who aren't doing anything wrong go to Munich as one of my colleagues who went to Berlin two years ago, here he was 5.6.7 blocked, nicked to death to the point where he died to inherit those debts and that they couldn't pay it back either. Within two years he created a company there, bought two apartments, took his wife and children from Vinkovci and now live there. And he says to me, Runtic is great, I'm never going back to Croatia, and the man is '91. He was a defense attorney and he defended the Vinkovs. People from that neighborhood know how the Vinkovs went in the war. So we've already talked about how the executive law is one of the biggest generators of the black market, unfortunately it's true and it's getting more and more and people are getting along, but besides, the blockades are one of the main reasons for mass eviction. Reputable some of our demographers like Stjepan Stretz and Angel Akrap often warn about it, so since Mr. Stertz can't say anything here from this pay phone on this issue, I would quote him with a fraction of yesterday's conversation on a portal where Mr. Stertz says, "You block your own citizens, block their lives, and they make a decision about leaving the country. They open accounts in another country and start a new life. It's amazing that we have 20 ministries and no one has the guts to say, okay. Now I'm gonna cut it off. In one that they've handled carefully at the Trade Court stopping the execution of Agrokora, and the citizens are not interested. In addition to the uncertainty in Croatia's future, there are citizens who have been blocked by their own state system, completed, stalled in any kind of activity. Now let's say you have that 330 thousand times three family members you have almost a million people who are out of activity in the country. They cannot deal with any additional activities because they cannot implement contracts, no contracts, no additional jobs to start paying back debts among other things." It's like having a child with a room in a total mess, so it's all upside down. And you tell your kid, go upstairs and get the room ready, but until you get it ready, you can't breathe. So that's what this executive law does to block people who should pay back their debts. So they're initially disabled from paying back their debts, and the dead accounts are a very large number. We heard some numbers. To continue with this quote: “You are in the name of a system that takes, controlling you have blocked your own citizens and tied their hands. And that doesn't make any countries in Europe at all. State FINA does so on behalf of private relations, so citizens and private banks."The assessment is that by 2011 when we were not in the EU in total, around 600,000 people were missing from Croatia and BiH. So the problem of blocked and executive law that mass-produces blocked accounts and destroyed people is also a demographic problem. I've already read some data from FINA here in one replica, but I'll repeat, I think I still have time for that. So according to the data I received from FINA 27.6. this year, which refers to the last published state on 30 April of this year, in Croatia, 328 thousand 872 citizens had 720 thousand 721 blocked transaction accounts and their total amount of blockade was 42 billion and 190 million kuna. The same day was blocked, and this should be taken into account, as this is not the case, 10 thousand 695 companies were blocked, i.e. legal persons who had 18 thousand 522 blocked transaction accounts and the total value of non-executed legal persons paid was 10.73 billion kuna. Therefore, the total debt of citizens and companies is about 53 billion kuna. The most common word is 42. So the total debt per block is still $53 billion. At the end of 2016, there were 327 thousand 176 citizens in the blockade and the debt amounted to 41 billion comma 16, which means that in the first 4 months of this year, the number of blocked citizens increased by 1696 and their debt by a billion and 30 million kuna contrary to what we often hear in the media that there was a slight decrease in the number of blocked, it did not. The number of blockeds is constantly growing as well as debt. In 2012, with an estimated number blocked by this today's number, the total debt was 16 billion kuna, so citizens. Today's debt of around 42 billion amounts to around 8 to 10 billion kunas of principal, everything else being strained interest, public notebook fees, FINAs, etc. Of the total number blocked, those who have been blocked for more than 1 year is about 83% and they carry at the total debt level 96% of the debt. With 83% longer than a year, there are numerous blockades that are 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 years and over. I'll tell you just like this, we see what happened in Agrokor and how quickly the law was passed to save the company from systemic significance. Now, if these 330 thousand people who have been disabled from working and contributing to this country, this society and their 42 billion kuna debt are not of any systemic importance to them at last special attention, then neither is Agrokor. I think it's about time that something was made, of course, about the adoption of a new law and these amendments, but apart from that, this huge, incredible number of blocked people, which means that compared to the population, it's terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46026	Thank you very much. We've got multiple replicas. He's the first respected representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46027	Dear fellow Minister Runtic, this was an emotional exposure because it was from personal experience, from the fact that you were going around the field, you saw what our Croatian citizens were in. And you have well noticed that many people who have dead, blocked accounts have to work here on black, ask employers not to pay them that money on those accounts, there is practically a huge problem for the Croatian economy as well. However, in these amendments within these amendments that I am convinced will be supported by all MPs in this House there is a part of the solution to this problem because we will unblock those dead accounts with these proposals, meaning those who have been blocked for more than a year and those are 83% and they bear 96% of the total debt. And these people will be forgiven for all the interest that came from that period. And I am convinced that this will allow a large number of people to stay in Croatia. This is not a party issue, I am sorry that Secretary of State Salapic reacted in such a way to his colleague Beljak, it does not matter who has been here in Parliament, who has made the proposal or not, it is important that we are all in agreement, that we are here together on this issue and that we all want to help Croatian citizens. I am convinced and Secretary Salapic and the Croatian Government has shown it to its amendments. So this isn't the time to argue, it's not the time to insult, it's not the time to call out who gave up how many amendments, who took part in this or that way, it's important that we all show consent now, to support this bill and these amendments, and to help Croatian citizens because those state secretaries don't have time to wait, they don't have time to wait. And I've been deeply affected by this exposure that we've experienced and I think we all have to react in the right way and not share.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46028	The distinguished representative of Hrvoje Runtic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46029	Thank you. I wanted to talk about what the Executive Law is doing on the ground and what these changes are really going to solve, what kind of people are going to help. That's what it means, here's what if the distinguished academic Reiner lets me get the pay phone, and if it doesn't stop my time, I could talk for four years and two months about what I've seen in the field. So this really is probably the biggest disaster that happened in Croatia after the Homeland War, which the public doesn't know enough about, because for some reason these stories don't get into the media. It's particularly shocking because it's about human destiny, so somehow you'd understand that these terms don't allow stories about, say, animal abuse, even if I'm against it. But that this kind of story on the hood means that there isn't, and I'm going to say, no matter what the differences and disagreements may be, but literally, there's not this Youtube channel on which the Living Wall has been published for five years now, such horrible stories being recorded on the ground, part of which I've recorded, and I don't think people would have anywhere to see what, in what way, means destroying people on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46030	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46031	Comrade Runtic, indeed your life experience on the ground with people who have brought this executive law to simply no longer be considered men but slaves of this executive law that has been passed exclusively against man. A law that has no social sensitivity, a law that is essentially anti-constitutional. So far the law has been counter-constitutional, there is no equality in it. Social sensitivity. A law that affected individuals, a law that affected foreign banks that pulled out money. And that's why we have empty villages today, and we in Croatia today have extra real estate and people still work. For what? Is it when you pass through the villages of our like, Slavonia, the Dalmatian burns, the entire coast, the hinterland, we see that there are empty villages, and there is no more life here. This is a law that is against life in Croatia. Against life, against development. And your experience and your testimony that you've been through, and personally, I've been part of it a lot, with people who were literally slaves. People suddenly became slaves because of this law, and all that money was sucked out, and today we have these devastating results of demographics, which were long warned by demographics Stertz and Akrap. And indeed, these changes and colleagues from HDZ and us from the centre and the SDP, there is no ideology here. This issue is about the survival of a Croatian man in Croatian spaces. And thank you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46032	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46033	Thank you. My friend's ass, here's where I wrote it. I haven't been able to read it. It would have cost me four years and two months of what I said. Another example, so you mentioned how he treats people. Worse than animals. One example is that often in courts, so on those advert boards where notices of public auctions have been reported to you, it says: “The property is not free from things and persons. ” So they sell houses where people live, along with these people and closets and cats and parrots. I'm not inclined to go back to yesterday or the day before yesterday, I like to live in today, and I'm not inclined to say this one is guilty, this one's guilty, this one wrote that law, etc., I don't care, we can't change the past, but we can change today and we can change the future because if it continues like this, I mean we won't be. We're listening to what Akrap and Stertz are saying and maybe what we were hearing five years ago is happening today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46034	Thank you. The next replica is respected representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46035	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Runtic, you can see that this exhibit of yours was a very personal exposure. I think it's also the best way to show what consequences the laws that have been passed right here in this high house can have. And I also know that in your experience, you've had a great deal of contact with entrepreneurship and craftsmanship that you've handled in your presentation, and I'm just glad that these amendments to the law have affected this area where, in the world of entrepreneurs and craftsmen, there are going to be big changes to this law because we have a large number of people, who I personally know, who are willing to create their own company, who are willing to go into the self-employment process, but they're not allowed to do that because they're blocked. And on the other hand, these same people go to any of the neighbouring countries and without any problem open the company, participate in the budget of the other country, pay taxes, pay contributions, because they are allowed to do so. And we, we literally make them go out and do their entrepreneurial work without any problem. That's why I'm glad that the changes to this law will also affect the sector of entrepreneurs and craftsmen, not to mention, that despite our numerous attempts to fight, we will say, against the black market, we have practically parallelized the black market, because normally people will work on black, when with minimum wage, and we know what the minimum wage in the Republic is, that the entire salary goes to their blocked accounts, so I can't pay any of it, nor every day bread and milk. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46036	The answer of the respected representative Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46037	Dear colleagues, it is true that I have spent some 16 years in private entrepreneurship other than these 9 months here in the Croatian Parliament. So my whole working life I'm in that so-called. the real sector, so for every salary I had to fight, for every salary we had to, or for contributions, for taxes, etc. until the moment when the economic crisis came that we were not responsible for as well as other entrepreneurs, or citizens, and when our clients were no longer able to pay us, and when we came to the situation that we ended up in a blockade. We had three times as many unpaid bills. Now why can't Croatia become a dynamic economy where such things are dealt with quickly, I don't know but I hope they will. Because we already have a situation now that all young people, meaning they are not trying to register the company in Croatia at all. They do business, even there they do, but they register companies in Dublin or somewhere where there's this dynamic economy or what that Bill Gates would say is doing business at the speed of thought. Of course everything goes back to the economy, everything goes back to how much we train ourselves to create new businesses, to create new jobs. But the state must create a framework, and this framework must be a framework that involves much less pressure on these entrepreneurs. Because there are thousands of people who would hire themselves who would do something like that to get their hands dirty at home and sell it on black. They'd be happy to pay their pension and health insurance if they could.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46038	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46039	Dear colleague, in your presentation, you told us that in 2012, we had total blockades of 16 billion kuna. Today, in 2017, those blockades rose to $42 billion. Exactly the fact that we have so much blockage today, that we have 330 thousand blocked says that the system isn't working well. I believe that the proposals we put through this law and amendments, to unblock accounts that haven't been completed or on them for a year, so we don't have these eternal blockades, and the fact that we're introducing a 10-year-old deadline can lead to finally trying to direct this demented system in the right direction. I don't think this truth is going to be two very important proposals that I believe we're going to get the support of all MPs to solve the problem until the end. But I'm sure we had such provisions in 2012 today would not have a debt of 42 compared to those of 14 billion kuna. I think these two motions on deblocking accounts and on the statute of limitations are one of the most important things that can really have an impact on all those blocked citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46040	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46041	Comrade Simic, I agree. So these two proposals will really help, so I trust tens of thousands of people not to exaggerate with hundreds, but a large number of people will help even though it's a second to 12. So someone should have evaluated this 10, 9 years ago after they watched what was going on on the ground, so that little kid in my opinion would have realized after a year, so this doesn't work, let's change it from the roots. Oh, no? What you mentioned means about this growth debt from 2012 to today. Well, we had 30,000 blocked years ago, so now we have 330,000. So I'd like to conclude the following. If, for example, Albert Einstein were living in Croatia today, he would probably come up with some pretty new definition of madness, so we could do it with graphics on Facebook. He said repeating the same thing over and over and over and expecting different results is a definition of madness. It's about the executive law, so I'd really like to meet the man who wrote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46042	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vlaha Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46043	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Runtic, I want to conclude after your presentation one simple thing that this situation, these circumstances with the blocked citizens, has brought us all together as a society into an unbearable situation. Our approach to MOST in this context is access to classical life, and that's the problem, let's get right to it. The MOST Executive Law proposal wants to solve the problem now, and it's like that. Whether it is perfect, it is not, whether it can be better, and in that spirit we want to stress that it is really necessary to approach this problem even more systematically and to reach a new executive law. But in any case, this law at this point will make life easier for many people, and I stress that now. And this approach to politics is also a gathering of all of us around this clear life problem that is recognized, and I'm glad to hear it, because in our society we have, I'm also going to say the radical division of people, we have division of people, not based on division of work, but based on division of profits. In a right reaction to this executive law, where we show a certain level of community I am imprisoning me, so here I am using the opportunity to call this kind of, I will call it a criminal and unfair privatisation consensus that has so far ruled, or a political system, to replace a strategic consensus in the interests of the people. We have a truly verified historical Croatian political thought that is reflected in 3 simple words. And that's community, self-government and non-classification. Anyone, anyone's laps. Therefore, if we do so all together as we do today in the case of law enforcement, I am convinced that we will not have problems like this, nor will we prevent many other similar problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46044	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46045	My colleague, I am glad that we are thinking the same way about this famous community, and indeed, in such things, there should be no difference between parties, but there should be one feeling for people who suffer, and many suffer for a decade and more. But I wanted to say one thing, so this really concerns everyone in Croatia. Some people who can settle their monthly obligations neatly, think, it's none of my business, which I care about being blocked there, let's cover how long it is, don't lift it, why he's taking loans, etc. which cannot be serviced afterwards, etc. But there's one good-looking thing I wanted to say about why many of this concerns who think it's none of their business. For example. When a single execution goes into procedure, you must pay 150 kuna with a public notary. So it's about 150 kunas to run that charge against some debtor. And now, look at this bill, the subscription for HRT is about 80 kuna, right? So two of those who pay the HRT neatly, pay their monthly bill at 80 kuna, and in order for HRT to start the charge against someone who doesn't pay, he has to take twice those 80 kunas, he's still got 10 kuna to chew and run the show. And such executions only the HRT performs are thousands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46046	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI Club, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46047	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of Justice on behalf of the IDS-PGS-RI Club, I would like to refer to the proposal to amend and supplement the executive law as an act that has a major impact on the everyday life of our citizens and which I am looking at from a broader point of view. It is a law with a much greater range of problems and topics, and here they would not be allowed to leave out the political and economic conditions that have led to such a huge escalation of the number of completed and blocked citizens. The reason is more, and can also be found in hidden individual ways of implementing the conversion and privatisation that took place in Croatia, which has caused a huge number of unemployed, and whose consequences are still felt today and in an inadequate response to the state level to recession and global financial crisis, concrete and enforceable measures, which have further made it difficult for people to live and in the most frequent changes to regulations, which lead above all to general uncertainty and which have a negative impact on the investment climate, resulting in an insufficient reduction in the number of unemployed and eviction of a large number of inhabitants. In addition, it is especially necessary to highlight the underpayment of workers, as well as the constant uncertainty as employers increasingly offer contracts for a certain time instead of a permanent working relationship, so that due to the absence of regular monthly incomes, citizens are unable to settle their obligations, which is why there are a large number of executions and blockades of the accounts of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It should also be pointed out that the vast majority of people are ready to work, but expect to be well paid for their work and expect stable and continuous incomes. So, despite the fact that economic growth and employment growth have been recorded in Croatia in recent years, we are still unfortunately faced with a large number of unemployed, which has led to the situation we are in today. While, on the other hand, we are witnessing a significant deficit of labour force and almost all areas, as well as the fact that many citizens with blocked accounts are not ready to work, because they realize that the wages they earn will be seized for them, so for the choice they have or do not work or go abroad in search of work, which in practice often means leaving and the whole family, and this certainly leads us to another very important problem, which is repeatedly highlighted today during the debate, which is the emigration of the population from Croatia. Since this bill is insufficient, but a step forward, a step that makes it impossible to carry out on the only real estate that is not mortgaged. Since this bill guarantees accommodation for those who will be left without real estate, as the amount of the protected share of wages and pensions is raised from two-thirds to three-quarters in order for citizens to have more money left in their accounts, our club wants to support the adoption of the bill. However, as I pointed out at the outset, I consider this topic from a broader point of view, this amendment, which is already not enough during the debate. We need to move as quickly as possible into the process of adopting a new whole law, but also a series of measures with a more long-term and comprehensive plan to address this burning and difficult problem. In this occasion of respected MPs and MPs, I would like to remind you that our club during the debate in the first reading has advocated the rights of guaranteeers who are also affected by the performances and the blocking of accounts due to the inability of primary debtors to settle obligations. In fact, we found that according to the existing regulation, there is no possibility that loans would first be settled by selling the property of the debtor, and only afterwards would they reach for payment through the guarantee. Our wish was that through the amendments to the law, we allow the guarantee that the exercise does not sit on well-deserved severances, annual vacation regresses, goddesses and so forth, and in fact our proposal from the first reading of the law was not accepted by the proposings, with an explanation that these receipts are not of social character. We agree from our club with part of the argument that this law will increase the amount of exemption from the obligation to pay, pension and other permanent monetary incomes, which will partially solve the problem that existed, but respected colleagues and colleagues, this amount is too small for the perpetrators to live. Our proposal aims to help the bailiffs with additional funds without obstructing the payment of debts from regular incomes. So once again, we appeal to the proposings to accept this proposal. And finally, as I have already said, we want to support these amendments and amendments to the law, and I will repeat that our position is that we need a new executive law that needs to find a full and sustainable solution, that we need a series of measures to solve this difficult problem, and ultimately that we need a much greater level of political responsibility and competence because we have really spent too much time on topics where we have not helped our citizens to have a better future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46048	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46049	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's from all these exhibitions that were also replicas from different clubs, we see that there is one agreement here on these amendments to the executive law, but also on amendments proposed by different clubs and representatives, and so do we from the Most. It should also be noted that these amendments have also been supported by the expert public, that the president has advocated moving in this direction. It is true what my colleague has said that we also need complete changes, but these amendments that I hope will be unanimously accepted and this law will help our citizens to a great extent. Namely, one of the key things that we want to change to the new amendments that have been made here is the protection of the only real estate, or we want to prevent the implementation of a property that is burdened with pawn law because of a loan agreement in the event that the principal credit value is already paid to the creditor. That's one news. So we have a situation where someone has a 30-year loan, he's practically paid off the principal in 20 years, and now with this amendment, he's going to take that total amount that's been paid back, and if he's equal to the principal, he's not going to be able to be the one real estate. As a result of the widespread occurrence of real estate enforcement due to broken credit agreements, at which time the termination of the contract was paid to the creditor on behalf of interest and principal costs and fees exceeded the amount paid to the payee, it is necessary to introduce the protection of the contractors to whom it is the only real estate and who, due to high interest exchange rates or high fees, have already been paid back. And this is what we're dealing with. In addition, according to the requirements of the professional public of our own and other representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we increase the amount of capital which is why only real estate cannot be completed from those originally agreed with HDZ to 50 thousand kuna, and in such a situation is about 220 thousand people. In cases where the principal is higher than those 50,000 kuna, and in the case of a real estate implementation we offer a solution, this is already the previous solution to the replacement accommodation at 18 months, meaning that the state finds real estate or that it pays the amount to our citizens. Another key thing that my colleague Runtic spoke of most was to resolve the deblockation of long-term blocked perpetrators, with the prerequisite for suspending the fact that demand is not charged. So if in a year and no longer can be charged, it's clear that there's something to be done. Chairman, I'd like you to calm your colleagues down for a moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46050	Please give us a moment to calm down so we can hear the honourable representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46051	So long-term blocked are completely excluded from economic relations in the country, often they can't start a working relationship because their wages are taken away as soon as they sit on the bill and turn to the black labour market. Even as consumers, they do not contribute to the growth of consumption and economy and long-term continuous blockades result in the accumulation of new debts and the creation of an evil spiral of debt that many will never get away with. Therefore, the proposed new MoST amendments prevents the accumulation of debt, disproportionate interest growth when the performance cannot be successfully implemented. In addition, the thing that should also be introduced and proposed by MOST is an absolute limitation period. A person can't be blocked for life by what we've had so far, it's a trauma affecting about 300 thousand debtors. These debtors have families, children who are also exposed to all the problems of these debts. This means that more than a million people in the Republic of Croatia are under insufferable property and psychological pressure resulting in unhealthy society and enormous emigration. In fact, the limitation period of 10 years prescribed by the Law on Mandatory Relations is long enough for the procuring officer to be able to charge his claim if such demand is remunerated. We're dealing with this means these amendments and I'm convinced from all these exhibitions that have been here in the Parliament and the replica that they will receive unanimous support from our people's representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46052	Thank you very much. We've got two replicas on your exhibit. Dear representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46053	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You have made a fine repeat of all the changes that this law and amendments are actually going to make to all the blocked citizens in our country. I'm glad that MOST is the driver of this very law and all these changes that will happen to people who have been expecting it for years. However, what I am extremely proud of is precisely the change that MOST brings here to this High House, which is that today we are discussing a subject that is extremely important to all citizens and that we are all in agreement here in this assembly. And I believe that and that is exactly what our representatives are doing to hear the problem of the people, to develop proposals, to find a solution and to propose it here in this House of Highs in a way that will be accepted and in a way that we will actually help and all the problems our citizens have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46054	Thank you. Something will be answered by the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46055	Dear colleagues, you are absolutely right when we talk about the need for full changes. This does not mean that these changes will not help many. This bill was agreed with the HDZ and was one fruit of consensus and agreement and when the bill came here before this House of Commons, then the story began, so these are not enough changes. So it takes 76 hands to change, so we have to deal with them. And we think we have shown one maximum inclusiveness, whoever made a quality proposal from the ranks of the opposition, we are, of course, in some reasonable time, some amendments and now come, we can't even implement them, but everything that has come before we have respected both fellow Alexic and fellow Lovrinović and what they were, of course, Government proposals that are also going in the direction of improving this law. We weren't holding round tables, we weren't saying something needed to change, we were starting to change. And that is the way and I see that we have now created an atmosphere in the Croatian public that everyone is talking about the Executive Law, talks and the President and that the Government understands that we should go into these complete changes. But already these changes and these amendments will help many. I don't think many of them are aware of how much change this is. You spoke to your colleague Runtic about the problems but we have a solution that will help many, which does not mean that we should not go to full changes. But I think maybe tomorrow some will understand when these amendments are accepted to what help us, how much we're going to unblock and how many families are going to come out of this evil spiral that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46056	Thank you very much. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46057	A colleague of Grmoy, indeed the problems that this current Executive Law has created in our society has also created a social problem, a huge problem, and not only 330 thousand people who have been blocked but it is at least 3, 4, as you have said, it is about a million and a half people or more than one third of Croatian citizens are under blockade and it is simply a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented proportions. Both this law and these proposals and the MoST amendments and other colleagues, but the MOST amendments you've listed solves a good part of these problems and the only real estate protection in case the principal credit value is greater than the paid, paid creditor, means when the principal is paid with interest, the value is the principal and ultimately the debts remain huge. However, in this case it will not be possible to carry out, this is very important because banks take more money than real estate and eventually people lose their jobs because of the loss of work, because of the poorly arranged system, they do not have their jobs and unfortunately lose their real estate regardless of how well they paid for it. And that includes a number of people who, I'm going to give you my example, an example of the Dalmatian woman, workers who have created all the good for years, lost their jobs, are now blocked, under the covers, of course their children have no perspective and the future. Therefore, this law is a consensus, from the president of the state, the public, the professional public, the government, all the constituency clubs, there is no reason for these to not pass the laws. If changes are needed, new amendments to the legal that will be even better will surely be accepted by MOST. But at this point, it is high time to support himself for these people, to support this law, which the Most Independent Lists Club has proposed, many colleagues have proposed their amendments that have been accepted, no reason for him not to pass unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46058	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46059	You remember, colleague Bulj, when I asked the prime minister one question here, and then he tells me the prime minister is going to underestimate MOST, then he says remember your terms, it's kind of your local optics of these national problems, and then you've all worked out with an exclusive economic belt, to show that you understand yourself in foreign policy, and look at what the MOST's condition was for putting together the government. The question everyone's talking about. About which the president convenes the Round Table, a question that affects so many Croatian citizens. We recognized the problem last year as a key problem to change. And before that. And now we see one consensus here, and we're glad that we're the drivers of change, and that these changes have been joined by all parliamentary representatives, all the clubs, and we have an agreement here on that. It is not a local optics from Metkovic, one problem, but it is a key problem that weighs on all Croatian citizens, and now it is recognised by the President of the State, so we are the ones who offer concrete solutions and here, we are glad that these concrete solutions and colleagues are promoting others, here is that the Government has promoted them with its amendments and we have accepted everything that has come from both arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46060	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the government, state secretary Josic Salapic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46061	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. What is my obligation as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at today's debate in the Croatian Parliament, once again to present several facts that are important for the adoption of quality and overall and amendments to these amendments to the law as well as the new law on which we work at the Ministry of Justice. What is true is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made amendments to the proposal of the promoter of the MOST Club on the scale and according to agreement on cooperation with you and your representatives at the Ministry of Justice, where Mr Simic was at several meetings 5 or 6 as well as Mr Aleskic and the amendment promoter. However, by extending the amendments today, we cannot accept responsibility for those professional agreements we have had with our hands open. I must stress that some of the solutions that have come up today have not been mentioned at any of the full-fledged meetings and agreements before these amendments, which she has given her testimony to. So, what must be clear to all, that the government of the Republic of Croatia stands for the full Executive Law, for an executive law that will have much better solutions than it has so far, and we agreed, therefore, by cooperating with your proposal, regardless of which you are no longer part of the ruling coalition, that the law be accepted. But within the framework of those agreed with you and your representatives on working groups. These groups included Mr. Alexic and another amendment promoter, where you did not accept those amendments at the time. Today they are part of what you said, and it is my obligation to say as a representative of the government, there is also the possibility of further consultations on your proposals, and the Priors, we do not say that this is not to be discussed, but I repeat, it is a new law and I repeat, we have not discussed this until today's debate. So, what I ask esteemed colleagues, MPs and MPs to resolve open issues in a way that there are no new problems for the Republic of Croatia, legal uncertainty and financial uncertainty, where Croatia can take over certain burdens against those who, therefore, gave certain products to our citizens who have therefore been consciously taking it. I'm just saying, not to be against the law, we've accepted in this section where we agreed, but I think you're having a discussion of what hasn't been discussed so far, and which opens up new issues that have far greater implications for the law than it was in your first article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46062	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go. Then the honourable representative of Nicola Grmoy first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46063	Dear Secretary of State, it is true that most of this law has been agreed, but it is also true when the government gave its amendments that were not with us or we knew all that the Government would give amendments, we accepted them without delay because they were of quality. The constructiveness and inclusiveness that we have shown, we here as representatives, expect from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we see that there is no need for any caution because there is a full agreement here. There's no point in disrupting this agreement that's obvious here, there's no point in going against the President of the Republic of Croatia because definitely all these proposals go in favor of the debtors, and there's no reason to question it now. And this debate, which she said in a constructive tone, that in any way she was disrupted and interrupted, if there is any amendment that you think is wrong, I would like you to say which amendment is not in favour of, means intoxicated citizens, not to talk about what is agreed or not agreed. There was no agreement on 13 amendments to the government, but when we saw them, and we saw that they were improving this bill, we accepted them without delay. And in that forest we all need to go, not to look, please don't look at the differences that the Most is now in opposition, we don't look at it, but we accept everything that is good and that goes in favor of our citizens. I think that in this direction we should be having this debate, I'm sorry that there's been an incident between my fellow whites and you, but he's started very constructively, unfortunately, with such one of your reactions that disrupted this agreement, there's been an incident, and I'd like this debate to go in the direction of passing this law, and these amendments, and to help our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46064	The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46065	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let's just once again clarify the possible ambiguity. Mr. Šimic, who is the president of your club and today spoke on behalf of the promoter, knew about all the amendments to the Government before these amendments occurred, because he had been involved in the talks and agreements on how to improve your bill from the beginning. I took part in these meetings several times in person. What we want to say is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not against the amendments and additions to the executive law, but our proposal and my intervention in the process today was to professionally, reasonedally and further consider the proposals that you made today at this debate, at today's session of the Croatian Parliament. No one has said that there is no need to talk about it, no one is saying that someone is against the bill, no one wants incidents, but we want to pass a law that will serve our citizens, but also protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We are all responsible, the Government on our part, but you also advocates and MPs on our part that the law we are making must be in accordance with the Croatian Constitution and in accordance with what the Government of Croatia intends, which is that we have a good law that will help the most vulnerable group of our citizens, but respecting all legal facts and arguments and positive legal regulations of the state and the laws that this House has passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46066	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46067	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Salapic, Secretary of State, so here we agree that as a representative of the government and here we are proposing a club of MOST that we are looking for a much better solution. And you say it right now, and this debate is exactly the opportunity to discuss all these amendments. You have now heard them all and your colleague Grumoja explained them again, my colleague Simic explained from the debates of some MPs we heard it. And so there's no problem. We're looking for much better solutions. I'm not a lawyer, but I see from these many amendments that are attached here that are quite logical and go in favor of our citizens. And of course, now is the key question, you as a representative of the government of the Republic of Croatia, and when we talk about a much better solution that you will in your proposal when it comes, we still don't know that you as a government are determined whether you are in favour of helping citizens, those who are in debt slavery. Or the government will continue to favor the legal lobby, the public note lobby, if I may say so to all those in this system who are intermediaries and collect considerable funds. That's the key question. And I don't see why these amendments won't be accepted. And the second thing, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you are the representative of that government is obliged to take care of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, so if I mentioned here and the Slovenian model, if a second model is taken, it does not have to be Slovenian, if it takes a smarter model then significant resources could remain in the state budget instead of staying with individual lawyers or other lobbys instead. And of course, this is an opportunity that the government often points out to the fight against corruption, because many contracts with lawyers are being concluded on the basis of exaggeration and it is on the units of local self-government, municipal enterprises and we don't really know whose interests are being represented, and especially if these are the interests of the Republic of Croatia. I hope you heard me because my colleague Shucker is talking to you now, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46068	Thank you very much. The Honorable Secretary of State will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46069	Thank you very much, Vice President, thank you for your rep, Your Honor. We've all understood each other well. So, let me repeat this to the public once again. This law needs to be amended and a new law needs to be passed. What I repeat we have not opened the question, this is the final text of the law, there are other business opportunities when issues that have not been opened at the public debate are opened, nor at our joint co-ordinations and arrangements to come to this proposal by the Government to its amendments to the no-technical repairs, gave a positive opinion on the law which has been the subject of the debate since the first reading to the final reading. Today, certain issues have been raised that have completely spread what was the subject of the first draft law and what was proposed by the proposer to the government of the Republic of Croatia. So there wouldn't be a misunderstanding. We are not saying that we are priors against these solutions, but this raises the question of whether at this point it is possible to complete the debate on this law or to use the possibility of the Croatian Parliament to go into third reading, because you have opened up issues that have not been opened so far and that are completely changing certain solutions to this draft law, as well as the existing Implementing Law. To be clear, we want to help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a way that we have a high-quality, enforceable executive law that will not go to harm the vulnerable groups who did not take their own fault in such a situation. However, we are opening up issues that have not been discussed professionally in any coordination. That is why I refer you either to the business opportunity of the Croatian Parliament or to these issues to the vote, because otherwise we will not come up with a solution that the promoter himself has opened today. This is not the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is a new proposal for a proposal that neither the Government nor the business can be declared until tomorrow's vote. That's what this is about. I only intervened in a way to protect what was my duty as Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46070	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46071	Secretary of State Salapic, you're saying that by these changes, the consent of all MPs has so far been, we haven't heard one word of legal uncertainty. So now, this Predator Executive Law has caused extreme legal uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia, which is not protected by the Constitution by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So who can have something against your amendments that the government has given, and they are not in sync, 13 amendments you said, are not in line or agreed. Did anyone say a word? Has anyone said words against the amendment of counterpart Lorinovic, a colleague of Alexic, to help tens of thousands of people. This predatory law that was made, it was designed exclusively to suck out the funds of our people, ordinary citizens who were turned into debt slavery. So who will mind that after 10 years of blocking the account, it is essentially a detachment to unblock that account, not to be forever, for life, the slaves of the blockade of the people and their heirs, these citizens and their heirs. So who can be against it? Who can be against protecting one real estate? If the loan comes back bigger with interest than the principal, the point is that before interest is rejected, only banks take interest in the credits in the annuities, eventually the principal. What if a man loses his job and gets back more than a head of interest, why take away his real estate? Which is why we will look at these acts of injustice, who is the greatest enemy of the Croatian people, are also a number of defenders. It is clear here that we have accepted amendments from the Government that have not been agreed. We accept the amendments of our colleagues. This is not a political issue of SDP, HDZ, Mosta, HSS. This is our citizens' question. They don't have time to wait for a third reading. The third reading may have taken a law in another, where it should protect our citizens around the concession. And here they have nothing to wait for the citizens. Like he says... 56,000 people went to Germany alone because of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because a million and a half people are now looking at us and expecting a last-minute rescue not to go to third countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46072	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished Secretary of State Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46073	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Bulj, we are not talking about amendments that are in line with the motion that the government accepted at its session. These amendments, accepted by the government, were in line with you as promoters, the Mosta Representatives' Club, on which Mr Simic sat. I'm talking about things you've opened today that no one has mentioned before. And we are not going to do any harm to our citizens or to the people they want to help both the government and you and we all together. It's just that you've opened up questions that extend the dimension of this law to be able to go into third reading. That was your intensity, not ours. So, the government has accepted amendments that were entirely, each of them agreed with your representative, Mr. Simic, the president of your club. Nothing beyond that, nothing less, so we don't blame the image on us, that we are against this law and against helping our citizens. You know very well that's not true. The government wants the whole law that we're going to pass, that we're working on. And today, we are talking about something that you, by the way of the Rules of Procedure, have extended to a further debate that is not foreseen at all by these amendments to the law. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46074	My colleague Bulj has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46075	Article 238, whole, because of what is said Number 5. Here is Article 238, paragraph 5. disdains MPs at the moment when he said that outside the Rules of Procedure that the amendment has been submitted [[Intruder Rainer: You can't speak whole, please tell me which part.]] No, no, if the amendments were proposed outside the Rules of Procedure, anyone could propose amendments as long as the debate takes place and between readings, you said so, I would ask the Secretary of State to pass this law because of the citizens, because this is... [[Attack Rainer: First of all, the Government is not a Proposer, you are a Proposer.]] The law so far and we have nothing to wait for, we are not against the new law [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has to do with the fact that all you have to do is tell the truth and just the truth and the parts. [[Good, this has nothing to do with.]] and parts of the amendment have been changed. [[Intruder Rainer: This has nothing to do with the violation of my colleague Bulj's Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46076	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Giovanni Sponze. ... Come on, please don't throw away. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46077	Thank you. My colleague Bulj, like this, I'd say, well-respected colleagues and colleagues next. We got off to a good start. It took a hell of a long time. Almost three hours of consent. Now it's time to stop at the ball and stop wasting energy where we're dividing, but to continue as we did for the first three hours, in a way that we tend to the points that bring us together. What is very bad in Croatia are regulations that are not enforceable, which create general uncertainty. So, in these discussions so far, I haven't heard from any of my colleagues or any of my colleagues, that it's not for that, it's for helping our citizens. But what we have to worry about and what the secretary of state said is that the law must be enforceable. So let's show political responsibility and what I said in my exile, let's show some competence. So, let's stop at the ball, do everything we can to get the law passed tomorrow and help citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a way that makes the law enforceable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46078	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46079	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for your replica, where you are the only one who has understood my interventions today in our debate today. So, the law that we are passing and is not enforceable, the law that is beyond business opportunities and what the Croatian Parliament predicts, is not a law that will benefit our citizens, but will lead to further examinations, we have made a mistake. We're going to hitchhike something that's a good intention and that the government has supported as your proposal. But I was on your side so I can afford it. We have a business law that will be enforceable, have legal certainty and benefit all of our citizens. If we're going to spread the story that there's someone here now against something we've accepted, and you suggested, we were just going to fix the amendments to make that law enforceable. The government made amendments to your proposal, the moment you handed him over he was not enforceable. The amendments have nomotechnically improved the implementation of your law. What happened today, to be public, loud, you went to spread the dimension of the law, which is at all certain crossings that you said today, is absolutely not feasible. We want to help you in a way that helps you through the Rules of Procedure what you can do or that we agree by tomorrow on how we have worked today at 5.6 constructive sessions attended by your representative Mr. Simic. Let's go back to a normal constructive and reasoned debate Mr. Sponza just said. I thank you because you're the only one who's going in favor of all of this together with the government to help our citizens. I don't think there's any place for populistism and... And that someone is against the law that wants to help our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government is the first one to want to do its intervention with amendments to your law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46080	And the last replica of the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46081	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Dear Secretary of State, you've heard from the club president that the HSS also supports amendments and additions to the Executive Act, and everyone in the assembly agrees on that. Of course, it is your right to respond to the comments of parliamentary representatives, but I think that in response to Mr. Beljak's reply you violated this right, that you violated the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because you forgot that you were no longer a parliamentary representative but a state secretary because you made constructive proposals to adopt the law, and you went to comment on how much someone contributed, how much someone was in the assembly which was not your right but you are responsible for the Croatian Parliament, and not the Assembly to you. And these amendments and additions to the Implementing Law have been further corrected by the amendments today in the debate because the aim of all parliamentary deputies is to help citizens. You've heard it's about a million citizens who are in trouble because of these performances. And because of the amendments that came to the table, you say that you will create legal uncertainty for him and that we will be able to make these amendments new burdens to Croatia because of some obligations under this law to some societies and companies. Who are you protecting? So all these amendments are heading towards protecting the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and indirectly both then and the Republic of Croatia. I don't see any reason why the amendments shouldn't be discussed. We have until tomorrow, let's make a consensus and bring the amendments to the law tomorrow, there's no delay in the third reading that you indirectly want to impute, is it obvious that you want to drag this out? So if you have a better law, let's give it to the debate, we'll pass the whole law, which is the intensity of everyone who's been in the debate, not that we're dragging it around here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46082	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46083	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Vlaovic, I have not counted the presence of Mr. President of your club here in the benches in one word. It's not my responsibility or my authority. I said that in the co-ordinations at the Ministry of Justice at meetings when we agreed to the amendment of the proposings, none of you or Mr. Beljak were represented by any of you or Mr. Beljak, and that is not an insult to the facts of our agreements. So we did not say that we were going to hitchhike this law but that by tomorrow, until the vote, we should discuss open issues that emerged during today's debate or were suggested to use the business opportunities of the Croatian Parliament, so that there was no misunderstanding. No one wanted to offend your club president, no one wanted to offend your good intentions to support this law. My obligation was only to say who was public, professionally involved in harmonising the amendments that the applicant had sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There we are, there are no insults or bad ideas to you as representatives or to your club HSS here in the Croatian Parliament. So there's a completely wrong picture of what I said to your club president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46084	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Miroslav Simic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46085	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's the need to clarify in these few minutes how this bill in its second reading came to your benches and who there is the person who decides on individual proposals and who decides on individual amendments at the end of the day. So the fact is that the Bridge has given its proposal to amend the executive law at the beginning of the session of this assembly, that we discussed it in our first reading and that we now have a second reading on the tables. The fact is that during these few months, we agreed with colleagues from HDZ and the Ministry of Justice about the very text of the law. The fact is that we had meetings at the Justice Department that I was at, but at these meetings at the Justice Department we could hear what the Justice Department was up to, and that's not acceptable. The Most Independent Lists' Club as a legislator and the Proposer who decides on what amendments will be accepted or not, nor at any of those meetings has spoken of what is acceptable to us, except for the government's amendments, where a good part of us has been presented the truth has made little changes to the government regarding your amendments, but I think it is correct at the end of the day, but what I want to stress, we, as a legislator, have held a meeting of the club, have decided which amendments are acceptable to us, knowing what the Ministry of Justice accepts the same thing or according to someone has reserves, but this is absolutely not binding on us as legislators. The amendments that have been accepted and those proposed are enforceable. If you're saying that any of these amendments are not enforceable, please be specific. So we now have the executive law that is enforceable and that led to one of the reasons why we have 330,000 blocked, why we have 42 billion unpaid debts, that's enforceable law. So we don't mind if you tell us which of these proposals we adopted is not feasible, whether the amendment by colleague Aleksic that the value of the principals that must be in order to go into real estate are 50,000, not 20, whether the amendment by Mr. Lovrinovic, which goes towards each party carrying its own costs, whether the bills from which a year of niche is not charged, after a year are unblocked or out of date. So you have antiquity for convicts of serious crimes, they experience in their lives that they can no longer be called because of these acts, so they are deleted from the record. You have old age for heavy acts after which you can no longer condemn someone, and we Croatian citizens need to lead to their debt dying because the executive of every few can extend the time of the performance. This is our intention as a proposing, we have the right to do so under the Rules of Procedure and we call on all parliamentary representatives to accept these proposals. Because it's important, it's 330 thousand people, as was important in the adoption of lex Agrokor, I was one of the representatives who defended this law here because I knew what it meant for the entire economic system of Croatia. As I know what that means, we have 330 thousand blocked and 42 billion kuna debt. I don't think the Justice Department or any of the MPs wants us to solve this problem, it's just the fact that what the Justice Department agrees on won't solve. And then you're telling us that we need to wait another six months, a year until the new law. So we don't mind, come on, let's get this bill passed and then you fix everything you think needs to be fixed in your new proposal, but let it finally be. Well, you've got working groups at the Justice Department who've been working for a year, people work for a year. And what have they done so far? And now the task force has to be formed again. So everything I've just said is behind it, as I stand behind the fact that we as a proposing have the right, the business right to adopt amendments, to propose amendments, and then MPs have to decide on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46086	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit. He's the first to be respected representative of Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46087	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Simic, allow me to point out something about your discussion. Namely, in this particular case, MOST Independent Lists, i.e. the Club of Representatives is the proposer of this legislative proposal. However, most often this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we are well-known and it often happens that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes amendments to its own draft law and after the debate on a legislative proposal has been concluded. And then a debate is reopened on each single amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia if it felt that after the debate and when the final draft of the law comes to a vote before the Croatian Parliament to open the debate on new amendments then, because the government believes it is necessary to open the debate and wants some additional amendments to make the laws more qualitative. Well, that's exactly what we want. So after all the debates and the public and in this Croatian Assembly, this is an opportunity while this legislative proposal is still under discussion, and these days it is expected, that tomorrow's vote on it will be maximumly improved, as well as any provision in this respect is in the interest not only of us as a club but also of all MPs and we believe that the Governments of the Republic of Croatia will therefore support any amendment before voting on the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46088	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46089	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you are right, so the Government is, after all, often taking advantage of this opportunity to submit amendments and after the debate has passed, it is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As it is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that we as a Proposer, even here I am what we may not have had to do and today it is clear from our presentation of any amendment we will accept, which amendments we propose, I think it is very correct because colleagues have a chance to discuss it now. Tomorrow, we could be here as representatives of the promoters to accept certain amendments by colleagues Alexic, Lovrinović or others that the Ministry of Justice may disagree with and they would become an integral part of the law, no one would have the opportunity to discuss. So, I repeat, we stick to the Rules of Procedure and stick to the rights that we have as legislators of this law. We think it is extremely important for him to be brought in tomorrow because it is 330 thousand of our citizens and we see no reason for this agony to be extended, especially for the reason that we have opened up here, fully open, transparent debate with very clear messages in which MOST is going.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46090	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46091	Thank you very much. Comrade Simic, it's really good that you've made it very clear that these amendments of ours are feasible. None of the representatives of the Government, the Honorable Secretary, have been given the reasons why the amendment that has been proposed and we have accepted them correctly now during the debate that we can all correctly discuss these amendments have not come to the conclusion and said we accept or do not accept them, but in the name of the Most Club and have accepted the amendment because this current law is essentially anti-constitutional, so far counter-constitutional because it is working against the people, against the man, against the demographic image, against, against, which it encourages the emigration, which encourages the blockade of people because one million and a half people are currently due to the blockade of accounts depending. No amendment by the representatives of the authorities has been implemented because they have not given an explanation that it is inconclusive. Everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure, this debate is complete in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And not only that, but you said that a year's work means an expert group at the Ministry of Justice under this text of new amendments to this, the so far bad Executive Act, which is predatory, which works in the interests of banks and individuals and to the harm of our citizens. So who's got a problem with that after 10 years if a man can't pay back his debt to unblock his account. And with this law so far, people are dying blocked and their heirs are taking over and banks are creating empires, extorting our money. And that's why only last year, 56 thousand people went to Germany for as many years to warn both demographics Akrap and Stertz. If we'd listened to them seven, eight years ago, Mr. Secretary of State, indeed... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46092	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Reply to the replica, representative Šimić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46093	Dear colleague Bulj, the fact is that we are holding the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the entire debate and in the performance of this debate. As to whether something is verifiable or not, here I will tell you in advance that very soon various legal academics will be found under quotes to talk about the incompetence of this or that. The same legal academics that have worked on the executive laws and so far, so we have what we have, so we have the fact that 330,000 people have been blocked. If we had 42 billion kuna and that's all right, it's actually correct, it's in accordance with a law that's very enforceable. So, when we want to respect the individual proposals of our colleagues, go with our proposals that should help Croatian citizens, then it can hardly be implemented. I think it's an inadmissible situation, and we'll be on it as long as we can, while we have our throats alerted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46094	Thank you, Representative Simic. The next replica is Agent Pernar. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46095	Dear fellow Simic, we have managed to find an important detail in your law, which, unfortunately, you have not, as you would say, been regulated. And he's connected to an article of the law that regulates the emptying of real estate, and we actually did what? We have given to add item 6, and it means this way in Article 19, says of this: “The date of implementation of the commission for discharge and transfer of real estate, the court will inform at least 8 days earlier.” So we have basically just said that there are no more secret actions and very fortunately, you have changed this article about discharge of real estate, so please just accept our amendment, we will hand you of course, and at the hands of our changes now directly. We are interested to know if you will accept our proposal to ban secret mirage, or to inform the performer of the term of execution, as an independent list MOST. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46096	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Reply to the replica, representative Šimić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46097	Dear colleague Pernar, so since we haven't had your amendment yet during yesterday's club meeting, we've only talked about the ones we have, I need to see him, so I can answer him more specifically, but I can tell you what we've done for those people, so that's why we're decommissioning. On the one hand, provided accommodation for a year and a half, the state would pay them rent, on the other hand ensuring that they could neither be disbursed except in cases where they agreed to it themselves. In addition, we have a situation where we have increased the amount that makes it impossible to implement the real estate, these are the concrete things that we through these amendments of the law and through accepted amendments have resolved and started to solve them. I think it's a big deal, so to speak our specificity, and here we have come to talk about another reading, and what we're going to vote on the Executive Law tomorrow, and as I said about your amendment, today we're going to have a meeting and we're going to decide on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46098	Thank you, Representative Simic. And the last replica of MP Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46099	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Simic, so I listened carefully to the Secretary of State, Mr. Salapic, I have listened to your presentation now, Professor Podolnjak explained something more about the relationship between the Government and the Parliament, and I believe that not only do I think it is, but it is, in fact, the Croatian Parliament is the one who makes the laws. And it actually serves as a parliamentary debate that all those laws that come in most cases from the government of the Republic of Croatia, in this case by the Club of Representatives of the Most to make these legislative proposals and to advance. And one of the options for promoting the law are amendments that are in line with the Rules of Procedure, so that's what the Proposer did, that's what you explained. And what I want to stress now, dear counterpart Salapic, as state secretary, can say that there are reasons why the government does not accept these amendments. He justifies them in such a way that they can bring legal uncertainty. What I can now conclude isn't so. The only thing Salapic can say is that it's the ruling political decision, and that's all it can be. A political decision that also puts pressure on ruling majority MPs not to accept these amendments, although they are not contrary to the constitutional-legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Because you stressed that these amendments should help those most endangered. And then the government can't just justify itself with a procedural question, so the government has to take a clear stance now and I would like my colleague Salapic to say very clearly and loudly that we don't accept MOST's amendments because it's not our policy. That would be more correct and fairer. So let me put it this way, I can cause legal uncertainty for these one reasons, and not in any particular example why this might happen, it's not very clear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46100	Thank you very much. Replica response, MP Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46101	Dear colleague Sagar, here's a very short one, so. 330 thousand blocked, 42 billion kuna, that's not legal security. And that's what we've gotten from the law so far. Our proposals are heading towards helping these people, and we hope to get the support of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, even if we do not get the support of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46102	Thank you very much, Representative Simic. Now we're starting a debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The first debate on behalf of the Club of Independents and HSU or GLAS is the esteemed representative Ana Mrak-Taritash. Here you go, Mrs. Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46103	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with an associate, allow me to start using this opportunity. For the first time, I have the opportunity to lead Mr. Hajdash Doncic as vice president of the Parliament, although he has already led, so congratulations on that. And we've been colleagues from the bench, so what I have is kind of I like to privatize. I'd also like to listen to the voice of reason, in accordance with the hope that we'll be a club in the fall. The countless times already today is said in this assembly: we have 330 000 blocked, we have a two-digit debt number that is, or we're talking about 40 billion kunas. Of that, 8 billion is the basic debt, and the rest are interest. There isn't one of us who hasn't had a chance to hear or see the problem of the execution. Real life is really out of this House. And you had a chance to see when it starts with 100 kunas due to some interest that a man forgot to pay, and then it turns out 300, 400 kunas should be paid. Recently, on one of our TVs, there was a full report on the lady who made the four cell phone contracts. Poor thing didn't even know what she was making. She got the job no matter what the guy who made the contract said that the contract was really worthless, the deal went on. And it's a real condition. There's a saying that we use, and that's what I love very much. It says, “The village is burning, but the grandmother is combing. ” And now if the grandmother combs long enough, the village will burn. And this is the fact we have. I stand for the model of any amendments to the law that will help a single citizen in this country is worth it. And then we'll systematically solve it the way we need to. We also support this amendment of the law to come to an end, to vote in the Parliament, to apply, that what is eventually found not to be a topic, so that we have an amendment to an article that hasn't changed and the rest, to make an analysis. And what I had a chance to do, like you all, to hear the minister, and that's what the secretary of state said to prepare a new law, so let's put that into a new law. But my people don't have the right to all 330,000 blocked, maybe someone at this point while we're discussing a bigger couple of hours and they're going to argue a few more hours after they're blocked, we don't have the right to tell them, so now we're just joking a little bit, so we're going to move on. Let's finish this process, tomorrow we have the ability to vote, vote the amendment and supplement the law, let's get it in motion. I have always advocated the option of the true value of the law you can see in implementation when the implementation of every one in whose portfolio is the law, will write the remarks that are, which in the implementation was a problem and change and supplement the laws. It's better to change and supplement laws several times than to say stubbornly, so this is good, and the real situation is different. Those 330,000 blocked are really state-of-the-art. The real situation is the relationship between the people who are accomplished and the believers. The real situation is someone's become it and by accident, someone is, so we have 330,000 different cases. We at the club will advocate that this amendment and the addition of the law go. We are equally absolutely in favour of making a new executive law. However, give this change and complement, let us give the present situation an opportunity to improve. There's just as well you know when you're a fourth or fifth club then before that there's a lot to be said, it's said in the debate, it's said in the replicas, so it's already said a lot. But I am deeply convinced that any amendments to the law to which we help someone are valuable, is worth discussing, it is worth discussing, and an amendment that will be better. Therefore, I really do, since there are also clubs and individual debates, and there will also be a few things mentioned again, mentioned debt slavery with the fact that indeed a man when inherits property inherits all debts that he is. The subject of antiquity that I absolutely agree with, because if there is antiquity in some other things, why not... I believe that it is incomparable for the believers to charge anything but nothing, but also let's see what is the basic task of us sitting in this assembly to protect our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To make sure that the laws we raise our hand on for or against really help our citizens. And if we help three families, we've done a lot. I really trust the proposer who says that much more families will be helped, because we have really led to our staring at certain facts. You know in life when you're young, you believe in things. I believed in the Tooth Fairy as a child. The same way you believe when you cover your head that real life behind you doesn't exist, but there is. This is real life. We must be seen today by the people to whom this amendment and the addition of the law will help, so I really appeal to return the voice of reason. The debate was extremely constructive, and we have established a consensus, so thank God that there are such important laws that we establish consensus. Let's not violate that by certain stubbornness, by insisting on certain things. Let's try to vote tomorrow on amending and supplementing the law, because everyone we help was worth it. And of course, what's the ministry's task is I've heard the secretary of state, and I've heard the minister say in the fall. He stood up because he didn't say at any point in the fall there would be a new law. He said we'd start working, and our assignments and roles would be to insist that this law is done, to make the law as good as possible. And there's no perfect solution. The perfect solution exists in a perfect world that we don't live. Something worth 10 years ago isn't worth it today. And what we're doing right now won't be worth 10 years from now. The changes that are going much faster than we are ready for these changes. But if we know that we have a problem, if we know that we have a solution to that problem, let's do this problem, so let's go solve it the way we know at this point and maybe in a year we agree to say we should work, there should be a new law. The solutions that are in the new law are better than we've had with these changes and additions. But let's process these changes and bring the supplement to an end. It's worth the vote tomorrow, and it's worth the changes and additions of this law to go and to be an improvement in the existing state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46104	Thank you very much for representing Anki Dark-Taritash. We have two replicas. The first replica is Representative Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46105	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, therefore, I fully agree with you, and you said that the main intensities of this law are the protection of citizens, especially the most sensitive ones. Of course, you and I both agree, most of us and almost all, if not all of us. Debts have to be paid and it's not a question here right now, that the message of this law is that debts are paid. But what about those who can't pay their debts anymore? There's a key question. Why has someone been blocked for years? And no man can, then he goes to work on black, I don't know what, he goes to Ireland to sort it out. Now take an example when we speak, this is a very serious law and this new law that will prepare the ministry. Here's an example of one that could be the one that was. The hospital in Virovitica, has its laundry room, has just decided by 1st July, of course they have called it, they have opened a tender and now the laundry will be performed by a private company that I don't know around here from Zagorje. What happens if the hospital can't repay this company's laundry service? They'll block the hospital's account. So what's going to happen to patients' health, what's going to happen to doctors' salaries, what's going to happen to all that, so these things can happen in practice, so law enforcement has to be very clear and precise. Or the case when the town of Orahovica built a kindergarten and didn't pay for it, the Ministry of Finance was a guarantee and he wasn't paying for it, the mayor decided he wouldn't pay for the loan. Then when we went to the Ministry of Finance, that's a legal problem, it has to be resolved by the state's attorney's office. The state's attorney's office says no matter how the city is blocked, it's a political problem. So here we talk more in the interests of citizens who can be hurt, and any help in this sense, when we talk about this 33,000, and in the future it can be a far greater number. This problem has to be seriously approached, and that's why I don't understand if concrete measures are proposed here, why would the ministry, just because it comes from the ranks of other club representatives, why would it refuse? Here's my replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46106	Thank you, Representative Sagar. The answer to the replica of MPs Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46107	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, I agree with you, and that's why I started and appealed to the voice of reason, let's sit down, let's see, let's see what's possible in the way possible and there's no one-meaning solution. Every solution is different. But what is truly remarkable is that each of us should certainly be moved to have some family, or any individual decide to work in Ireland or anywhere, because it is the only way that he can settle his debts. And there were several times when it was demographics. You know, demographics don't get rid of the way you set up the Department of Demography or set up a Demography Office. The problem of demographics is much more complex and I am sure that this is also another amendment to the law in the context and in order to solve it. I really advocate, once again, for the voice of reason to sit down and see, those amendments that can be accepted, of course I accept. And I suppose there are more and more possible. Not the stubborn ones in some form. The form will not solve anything, but certainly we will try to bring tomorrow's amendment and addition to this executive law, because I am sure that in the summer period this law can help someone. If it can help one family, it was worth the debate and it was worth the effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46108	Thank you, Representatives of the Dark-Taritash. The next replica is counsel Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, I actually came to the debate because you mentioned this thing all can be arranged, but let's respect the Rules of Procedure so tomorrow someone doesn't think of taking down something good. Therefore, the proposing representatives of the ministry... And I can agree to it by tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So no one, to duck, is in the interest of passing one law, which is very complex, so on the one hand must show the social sensitivity of the state, and on the other hand must show legal certainty. These are two things that are terribly difficult to reconcile, and therefore the provisions must be clearly specified. I'll just give you an example. In 2005, someone amended the Law on the Court Register, under the cover that it should be liberalised to establish companies as easily as possible, so it stopped the obligation to bring confirmation that you are no longer taxable. You know what that led to after six, seven years? That out of the total blocked companies over 60% of them you were without any employee and numerical and nominal. And nominally over 80% of the funds blocked. So that's why the proposings, the government's representative, have to sit down and agree by tomorrow, and that tomorrow we all eventually find a common solution to pass this law, because I don't think it's simply in anyone's interest to watch the trauma of our citizens, because look, they're unfortunately on the market for a lot of things. Many have entered certain arrangements and transactions in principle that they were unaware of what awaits them. And perhaps if these 320,000 were to be published, not names, but the reasons for their blockade, then they would see how sad they are because of the lack of information of something, and mostly because of the economic crisis and because of the reduced wages they are in the situation, but I repeat, the state must show its social sensitivity and, on the other hand, must protect legal certainty and therefore,proposers and representatives of the Government should be found during the day and agree on what they need to agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46110	Thank you, Agent Shuker. The answer to the replica of MPs Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46111	Thank you very much, colleague Shuker, for me, that the motionary and the government must sit down and agree to have nothing to add or subtract. When I was preparing a debate on behalf of the club, I was going to have a little bit of a different discussion. But just before me, there was quite a heated discussion between the motionors and between the government representatives, or the secretary of state, I deliberately mentioned and said a voice of common sense. We need to make a deal. When emotions start, you know, then emotions always prevail and go in some other direction and prove who's better, who's smarter is always harmful. Sit down and take a deep breath and make a deal. Anything that's possible, I'm sure it can be accepted and it's the only way and the only argument that's worth it. The stubbornness never led to a good result. We can be stubborn, one side and the other can find 15 arguments worth one case and another, but it's much more important to find 3 arguments that apply to both. And I always advocate, of course, for legal solutions, we have to take care of it, the worst thing would be to force a certain amendment that can be passed by a vote. And we had the opportunity to see this, I had the opportunity to see it in one law that was from my portfolio, where that amendment would be inconclusive, but I really don't want to at any time, in any amendment that was brought by a court without a single good analysis, but I really appeal to the promoters and the representatives of the ministry, sit down and agree to forget the emotions and forget the stubbornness because it can only lead to bad. And desire and that's what all the time the debate has no one here who hasn't discussed who hasn't said let's help those 330 thousand blocked, let's help our citizens. If that's our last goal, and I'm sure it's our common goal, then I'm sure what once happened can be bridged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46112	I thank the MPs of the Dark-Taritash. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia, MP Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear citizens who follow us, especially I welcome you outside of Croatia because I always think about you, I don't think about Croatia about 4.2 million people, but of 8 million people, so it's always in our minds. I also want to strongly support the amendments to the Executive Act submitted by the Most Party and immediately say that it is not parties such as Change Croatia, Most and the Living Wall this topic would not be discussed. Why? Well, you see, over the past few years, there's been a pile of debt, no one's had a finger removed, and as you can see, dear citizens are just parties like just recently mentioned ready to fight hard for you without calculations. Now, let's move on to the executive law. The existing executive law is a civilizational disgrace and insults man's dignity. It is certainly the worst executive law in Europe, and probably in the world. In recent years, the current Implementing Law has also made it possible to speed up the abnormal increase of additional costs to the principal, which primarily relate to the interest rate rates and to the excessive costs of the law offices and only those selected. But this time, I would like to stress that the CNB is one of the major and more important culprits because it was the one who determined an escontaneous rate that became the basis for the calculation of tight interest against citizens and businesses. That escontaneous rate was too high all along, so I can tell you the interest rate. Here's the data I pulled, just two, three data. So let's say a tight interest rate is '94. The year was 30%, so let's go a little further in '96. 24% years, etc. to get to our days when it's about 10%. Imagine a tight 10% interest. However, this high-cost CNB interest rate watch this, from 2002 to 2007, was 4.5%, so the 2008 crisis is coming, and just when it was necessary to reduce the escount rate from 4.5% down, no, it is growing to 9%. Nobody said a word about it. Where were you gentlemen who were at that time and then, and still sitting here today? You didn't point to that problem. If an institution determines such a basis, such a foundation for high interest rates, then this debt must simply have exploded. And this is how a perfect legal mechanism was created to turn free citizens into debt slaves. Even though the citizens in charge who have been and are still willing to repay loans today, but not with interest in the interest of the interest and not the bearable costs of the execution. Even in the years after 2008, when interest rates were approaching around the world, zeroes remained at the highest level in Croatia in the EU, which is why the CNB is responsible. So we came up with a famous saying from ancient times, that a small debt creates a debtor, and a great debt creates an enemy. That's why financial institutions owe them the biggest enemies to threaten their lives. The largest association and party in Croatia is the debtor. The most shocking fact is that out of 330 thousand blocked with a total debt of about 42 billion kuna, the head, as MP Simic mentioned, amounts to less than 10 billion kuna. So 32 billion kunas were loaded with these people, put a noose around their necks, and they don't care how those people get it back. Let me remind you of the antiquity. A well-known Athens statesman, Solon, 2600 years ago, freed the citizens from the slavery of the lenders who took people away from the land, and turned them into slaves because they could not repay credits, mainly because of the bad year and the poor generation. He annulled all such contracts and returned the country to its original owners. That was a real revolution back then. Today we must make a decision as well as Solon and free the citizens from debt slavery in the 21st century. None of the blockeds escape from their basic debt and regular interest, but they rightly do not want to pay abnormal costs and too much interest. That is why we ask the Government to adopt a debt protection regulation that will annul the obligation to pay tight interest that is not properly determined, which is the interest rate, and is neither an explanation of why they are so. And what's the worst thing, with an econtamination rate of the CNB, has never granted any credit to any bank, so that the rate can be applied to the citizens? That is why I have proposed an amendment requiring each party to pay its own expenses in the process and I am glad that the colleagues of the Most recognized this amendment. And this amendment is absolutely the most important thing of all amendments to the Executive Law absolutely. Why? Because if this amendment, if this provision had been before debt would not have increased by 10 billion to 42 billion, it might have grown from 10 to 15 but not to 42. That's why this is a crucial thing and I'm really glad we're all here and pushing in that direction. Because this is the interest of all Croatian citizens regardless of which political party we belong. But distinguished colleagues and colleagues, are you perhaps interested in whether there are blocked citizens in other EU countries? According to the information from the legal circles, I didn't get that kind of confirmation. That wasn't even in Yugoslavia. Here's while I'm looking at professor. The dodig who has been jailed for the syntagm of Croatian money in the Croatian wallet, so today in our country we have become slaves to those who are here, no more than Belgrade or Vienna, than these here. In this context, the government and the legislators who used to sit here before us have imposed it and some of them are unfortunately sitting in this House today. We have the worst executive law in the world, and it has to change. So, this amendment of mine on behalf of the party let's change Croatia to each party in the Executive Procedure when you are blocked pay their expenses, it will dramatically reduce citizens' debts. If nothing was done in this House, if this law were passed I could leave this House tomorrow happy that I have helped thousands of people in this way. And in that is my happiness, I will be a happy man. In the second amendment that I have proposed, I have suggested that the implementation of the property cannot be carried out if the debt is less than 50 thousand kuna, that is suggested by my colleague Alexic and I see that it is included in the final, amendments to this law. There's something else I want to tell you, share with you. About 50,000 citizens have an average debt of up to 2,000 kuna, so let's all owe 2000 kuna, that's 1,000 million kuna. Well, I can't as a financier not find another solution that's, of course, out of this law to do that. Let this government, the finance minister, refinance only one state bond of 5 billion kuna issued by 5%, be now refinanced in 3% and will settle 100 million, save on interest and immediately 100 thousand, 50,000 people solve which are obviously the most vulnerable, let's say the most socially endangered. But for the first time, there's no paying forever. Let me remind you of my distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here in 2011, 78 thousand people were blocked in early 2011, and 6 billion kuna was in debt. So January 2011. Today 330,000 people with 42 billion kuna are blocked. So what can we conclude from this? This is a strong and unsustainable trend, and it must be stopped decisively. Let each of us be... our days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Debts became weapons, means of subjugation, discipline and obedience. What some countries view as earlier weapons is now achieved by finance or debt. That's why I've been talking for years, you remember, 10 years, 15 years about the necessity and importance of monetary reform in Croatia. Therefore, the problem of Franak association, the problem of the variable and fixed part of the interest rate, RBA loans, are only parts of the monetary reform that we must finally implement as an integral solution and for which there has been no readiness so far. Now what else should we do? So we have to take down a system like this. This is a harsh one statement. Why? Because he's unethical, he's rotten, destructive and endangers national security. Demographic restoration makes it impossible. Get away from all of you who put us in debt wire, your calculations and numbers are financial machinery stores. And that's why I don't see the division here on the left and right but on the sovereigns and globalists, the servants of financial capital and the political sovereigns. That's how we split up. To paraphrasise Pope Francis who wrote we recommend a book, this economy kills, a fantastic book in which he says, although public debt can be applied to both blocked and completed. He says, on the basis of which the debt should be assessed by immoral, unjust and illegal, it is seen by the great harm that its consequences have for life and living standards and even human dignity by society, page 29. We have to say no to the money that the government instead of serving, the money that was trafficked for the purpose. We must say not to those who want to become masters of our money and exclude many people from being able to build their lives and their families' lives, because the overindebted man is not a free man. That is why financial or monetary reform, as Pope Francis says, is not possible if ethics is ignored because money must serve and not rule, political power must be above the financial authority and inequality must be tolerated because otherwise it will turn into violence. The ideology that defends the absolute autonomy of the market and financial speculation must be abandoned. The CNB and the IMF also see in Dubrovnik, messages from Dubrovnik are the protectors of such ideology. Croatia is a Christian country, where about 85% of citizens are declared Catholic. And is it possible that this kind of thing happens with us, I ask all of you citizens, and I ask you fellow MPs? Yes, it is. But it's not just that in Croatia, it's also in countries, other countries, primarily developed capitalism, and that's why it's a general problem that needs to be solved. Otherwise, it will strengthen the ideologies of totalitarianism and those who manage our money will become gods of money and of our destiny. In the end, welcome to Croatia, an empire of debts whose emperor does not yet have the courage to admit that he is naked. But respected colleagues and colleagues, if by any chance no significant changes are adopted in this Implementing Law, and if this disgraceful Implementing Law does not change and adopt the amendment, which the Most proposed with basic changes, I call on the entire opposition, not to come further to the Assembly. This is an important question, and it's finally enough to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46114	I would like to thank Agent Lovrinovic. We have four replicas on his display, representatives of Culej, Lalovac, Sagar and Sinčić. The first replica is Agent Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46115	... Your Honor, my colleague Orsat called before me. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Please turn on your microphone, colleague Orsat has given up.]] You gave up? [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: He gave up.]] I'm glad to hear it. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Yes.]] Like this, you said enough, why enough? A call to the opposition not to be in the Parliament. What opposition not to be in the Parliament? Why should they not be in the Parliament when many of them sit among them who have caused all the troubles of the Croatian peoples accomplished and blocked. Why should they come out now? It means that they are not involved in correcting the mistakes they may have committed towards that same Croatian people, who, in the name of whom they stand and represent here. Why go out? So this government can't go forward, it has ballast water around its legs. And that he can't go through them. And I'll read you why your colleague Orsat Milenić didn't want to hear from you. A man who responds to criminal charges and many suicides must not go to the Constitutional Court, it could easily happen that the constitutionality of the law responsible for suicides will be many unjustly blocked citizens exorcise out of this [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Please, please, please...]] Get those two out, and Stazic and Orsat out. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Please...]] I want to keep going. Give me back my moment. Please give me my moment to get back to where I started. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Please, please, please...]] They're rude, they're rude, they're blasphemous. [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: So please stick to the topic. So respond to MP Lovrinović.]] Who's the man who's calling me there? [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Please, please, so far the debate has been constructive, please.]] Intruder Hajdaš Dončić: We have stopped, we have stopped, you have 28 seconds, please stick to the subject and answer of Mr. Lovrinović, please, after that is an injury to Poslovnik, please... [[Please, please. Okay, here you go. You've got another 28 seconds. You gave me back the minute? .../]] It was a minute, but never mind, I'll make it. A colleague of Lovrinović, you are on half of the Croatian Parliament, on which are those who have caused many problems and suicides of debtors and perpetrators. You have to understand that. I told my colleague Alexic, "Tell me your names if you're looking to solve the problem." You need to find the culprit, cause-related relationship must be known, you can't call it an injustice, we'll solve it without knowing who's guilty. Where are we gonna start to get to the finish line? Thank you, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46116	So, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Because you did not replicate Mr Lovrinović, but you replicated Miljanić who did not even answer, but since this is Parliament, so everyone talks more or less what they want, but I do ask you to stick to the subject and to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46117	So, Mr. Vice President, an esteemed colleague or better to say only a colleague has injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, has offended her. I ask you to give him a proper warning or any sanctions, because there is a level of this House under which you should not go. And this was below every level, so anyone can come here, lie, invent, insult, if we talk like that, we can all go, then it's called the jungle. There are rules in civilised society that we must abide by. If a colleague can't follow the rules, he can sit on the sidelines and shut up. Here's my appeal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46118	Thank you, thank you. Please don't throw it away. So, I warned my colleague Culei. Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46119	So here, colleague Culey, I appeal to everyone not to turn this into a single fight, not to say circus, I have no intention when I come into politics and this Parliament to deal with what SDP or HDZ was doing, but to deal with, and to deal with all the problems like the debts, as they are blocked, done because the citizens know who's responsible and I don't want to take on the role of judge. That's why I'm calling everyone, when I said I was calling the opposition, because you're in power right now, and here it seems like some of these amendments are being made and they wouldn't accept, you know. So, come on, let's show everyone here in this House, I said, I don't divide into left, right, like this, like that. Are we for our citizens, are we to solve this problem? Let's meet here, let's set ourselves up over it, because that's the only way we can cooperate. If we can't agree on 20 things and agree, let's agree and agree on the Executive Act and about 2.3 more important laws that will improve the lives of our citizens. And everything else is ideological competition, and from which citizens will certainly not live better. Let's turn the Parliament back into a place where quality laws are passed, from which citizens will live better, and who will be able to get this noose around their necks finally off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46120	Thank you, Agent Lovrinović. Next replica representative Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I answered when you actually analyzed the structure of this 42 billion debt. It seems to me that you've said that, you've called on a colleague from the Most, that 10 billion is a major, 32-stricken interest. I'm afraid the situation is worse, it's about 42 billion majors. So when FINA publishes your data, it only publishes your principal. So this is about 42 billion majors and I'm still afraid that there are 30, 40 billion tight interest rates, that the situation is even more alarming than FINA announces. But what it is, so that's the part about the replica, and here I would certainly like to hear your opinion, because right now on the market the only business that is, is the debt reselling market. So that's what we need to see by this law we're not going to solve these 42 billion. We'll stop one piece of the opportune. However, I hope there will be additional laws to support this law, let's see how these 42 billion are resolved, especially if the banks have won, we remember last year that Minister Maric gave the Tax Act the opportunity to write them off... admits the cost if they will and will thus receive tax relief. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the question is why, if they got it from the state, why last year, only banks sold 6 billion kunas on the market at a price of 20% or 30%. And these citizens will never actually be able to get rid of it, and the state has actually given a certain relief in that context. I think maybe we should pass a new law, that if we give such relief that there must be a write-off of this debt. So I welcome this part of the law and now let's see with some new legal measures how it affects these 42 billion kunas that part, and we're only talking unfortunately about the principal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46122	Thank you, Agent Lalovec. Answer to the replica, MP Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46123	Dear fellow Lalovac, I am pleased with your approach to what he says and that your party supports this, and it's always nice to hear when it's really about this, that we want to get rid of it together. It's all the citizens who are listening to us now and watching them feel and see that we want to solve the problem together. You've run an excellent theme, or thesis. Why, just a few months ago, we made a decision here, in fact, most of them accepted that banks to certain segments, so they selectively write off their debts, or their claims, and that, on that basis, they have tax breaks. Therefore, they were obviously not citizens. Why wouldn't that apply to the citizens, too, I don't know, but this is a great thing. Let's run together, so this issue means that citizens are not in a subordinate position but that they will benefit from it as well. And there's one more thing you reminded me of. When the execution is threatened and the execution comes, the citizens write to me why such a legal provision would not be passed on to such a purpose, that first the property which is significantly lost at the price would not offer to the debtor, or to the executioner, because perhaps his relatives or someone else would help, and even one state public fund could be formed. A man would pay it off later, it makes sense. But no, there's just a sword drawn out here, it's wanted here, it's not taken care of by citizens, so let them get along as they know it. That's why we have so many sick people, broken families, and people going abroad to make money to pay off their debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46124	Thank you, Agent Lovrinović. The next one's a replica representative of the Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46125	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Lovrinović. I'm a little bit caught up with what my colleague Lalovec said was about 40 billion kuna capital. Well, that's scary, I mean, if we add 30, 40 billion interest to that, and you're, in fact, prompting me to debate your statement, I couldn't agree more on how bad the executive law is and everything that's happening to us has an impact on the Croatian economy. I was also a little bit caught up with your statement about the behaviour of the Croatian National Bank at the time of the recession. It's also not clear to me that they didn't, instead of encouraging the growth of the economy, they went with these measures. Now I'll try, you're a respected economist, there... I'm going to try a healthy logic now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I lend someone a tractor to buy a tractor to process the ground and the first year comes drought, rain, he can't return. I'm blocking his wheels, so what did I do? What's he gonna do to actually pay that debt back? It's a fictional example. One real example. The milkman who gets the exclusive income is selling him milk. He gets the money for the milk today, that money sits on his account, and he doesn't have any more at night, because it's all gone. How do you actually get that man, which he doesn't even get, he doesn't get paid in the classical sense, he's probably an OPG then not those two-thirds, or three-quarters. It's just things that paralyze the economy. I think that's what you wanted to point to. And that is why this Implementing Law is important, and that is why I think it is important that both the proponent and the representative of the Government agree to take these measures into force as soon as possible, because they have a great impact on the future and this country in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46126	Thank you, counsel. Replicate response by Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46127	Dear colleague Žagar, I am pleased that you said loudly that you were not familiar with the role of the Croatian National Bank and that you are very surprised. But that's really how it is. And that's why the story of the Croatian National Bank, monetary reform, came to this House only when we came. So, these parties of the young political center. But I don't know if you know the fact that since 2011 so far, there have been 7 million executions in Croatia. This information that my colleague Lalovec made is that this is the principal, not the interest and the cost, so it says there is no record of precise, or that the executions and these things should be returned to the birthplace of the courts, not the FINAs and the public notaries, so there is a total mess, a nightmare, where everything is unrelated and we don't know how things work. That's why it's high time, and that's why it's high time, that, in the beginning, I said, it's commendable, to unite, no matter where we are, about the important problems of the citizens. If the citizens will remember us by anything on this day or Friday when we vote this law, when they will be happy, at least that day, let them be happy to say, here are the MPs in the Croatian Parliament, everyone thinks about us and they didn't fight, they all worked so hard to improve our position. Here I am, really, I will be the happiest man of that day, I suppose, and let's do this effort to solve people's terrible torments, and this experience that you see in the place where you live, it just says that Croatia is not a state. Its institutions have left individuals, citizens, to have these things happen, and as I said in the EU, there is no such thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46128	Thank you, Agent Lovrinović. And the last replica of your exposure is from Representative Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46129	Thank you, Chairman. Col. Lovrinović, you mentioned the 2011 data in your presentation. That's when I just started my activist political career. We then predicted it very successfully, what a trend there will be, a trend that lasts a day to this day, as far as blocked, completed and decommissioned, it is this one process. First it's a blockage, and then the dot ends at the end... and dejected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say that since then and just before that, since the 2009 crisis the governments have changed and the cuts have been on all sides, on the one hand, citizens have lost their incomes, on salaries, on other things, their expenditures have increased, only VAT, electricity, could be counted by tomorrow. They found themselves in an ever-increasing position, it was a golden age, it's still, unfortunately, still going on, we just need to get through it with better laws, the golden age of the ultimate mafia. There have been all these phenomena that we now witness, and that is why it is necessary to change so many things, even to give so many amendments, and yet it is not possible to predict and consider all possible consequences that will happen. Yeah, well, it's shocking, just now, after what, like, four or five hours of debate, we've been getting some information, and so far we've been keeping that other information that 8 is 40, that they've remained interest as accurate. So it's hard to get the data at all. When you ask the institutions, they don't give you an answer. Surely this intransparency is due to the fact that certain interesting circles have affected this whole process of arousal, and that is why it is necessary to return the matter to the courts, as it has the whole normal world.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46130	Thank you, Agent Sinicic. Replicate response, MP Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46131	Dear colleague Sincic, I remember that, that year you were still feeling what you were still feeling, you were just, you were still high school, right, I guess, when you got involved in... So you've involved in solving the consequences, you've defended your young bodies in the Living Wall so that they don't throw them out as a civilizational disgrace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I'm not talking about today is that we need to create an economic policy and a state and its institutions that won't allow these topics to be blocked anymore, that people can live well, that they have paid well, that young people can find a job fast and stay alive in their own country. We've actually spent a lot of energy in this House to correct the deviations, and here's what we're doing from the past right now. Because others in recent years haven't cared about citizens' interests, how they live, whether they can repay their debts or not, see what interest rates they've been and that's from the CNB. So should we be surprised at what's going on, ladies and gentlemen, or MPs and MPs? So let's all be together. So when it comes to these amendments to the executive law, let's show that we know how to rationally think, that we're people to understand citizens' problems, that's what they expect of us. Let's show that we're not little people. Let us show that we understand problems and that we want people to live better and be happier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46132	Thank you, Agent Lovrinović. We have completed all the replicas, and now on behalf of the proposing representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about changes and additions, i.e. The legislative proposal of the Bridge on amendments and amendments to the executive law, which was a predatory law and was not directed towards the protection of all citizens, has done what is worst in the state, which is essentially the largest part of the population of the Republic of Croatia in debt slavery. With this as the predecessors in constructive discussions from all clubs sent clear messages, numerous and their amendments, as my colleague Lovrinović called for constructiveness, my colleague Alexic would have asked others, if at this time it were important that we find a solution here that 33,000 people plus their family members where a total of about a million and a half people were unhappy, blocked, and many would have been blocked for life and for life and their children would be. These amendments have been settled. Why don't dead accounts that a year won't unblock them, if there's no interest, if those interests were blown off, who's the one who gets hurt? Which of us here suits us all. So here, let's talk about the problem of what counterpart Lalovac said a moment ago that 42 billion is essentially the main debt of our citizens. So look at the amount and what it's about, the Croatian state is now growing and the black market, not filling the budget, people have no place to pay the bill to keep everything in line with the law. Let's also look at it, we've all said it together today, and I see that we're constructive, I call for construction and there's no division here, they're moving out today. The people who were both Croatian defenders and workers and those who lost their jobs and those who paid off the credit at the height of the principal, and we change it, and they still have a lot to pay back. But we protect one real estate as much as possible by this law, and we accept that the law is also a new whole law that will be even better and even more done. But today we have to talk about tightening interest, and the interest that banks... that public notebooks get to share, that it was all at the expense of that poor little man. The public records didn't bear the costs, they didn't, but they sucked that money, i.e. those who do these people. Today when we look at this debate, I think people will be proud and I wouldn't want to say on behalf of the promoter that there are any bridge independent lists of any kind of political ideological. These are life topics, and no ideological topics. This is a question of the Croatian man to stop the eviction of the Croatian man, to stop the destruction of Croatian farmers, to revive the Croatian village, the Croatian economy is the fact that it is the main cause, which is said by the professional people, who are dealing with demographers one of the key people in research both Mr. Sterc and Angelko Akrap that the main cause of this executive law and the suck-up of the funds that are predatory which destroys the small man and which led to today having two-thirds of Croatia empty, that young people are leaving us and that we are left without perspective. That's why any market will not contribute to this law. Of course we have to go back here who has passed this law executive, who is not, but the fact that the people expect us to all together to make all of our changes that we have given as Professor. Lovrinović suggested, Alexic, the HSS talked to us, all parties were mostly interested in discussing problems. It's been a year and a year of conversation, i.e. First reading procedure now is second reading, everyone can make amendments, we can all talk. None of us MPs are here, I haven't heard the words that they won't support these amendments to the law, not one word. So today at least we show that we are people's representatives, that the people have chosen us because of our Croatian citizens who expect this solution today. Tomorrow's vote to solve your problems, get out of debt slavery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46134	Thank you, Agent Buljo. We have four replicas for the presentation of the Bulji representative. These are representatives Curaj, Lovrinović, Pernar and Sincic. The first replica is representative Curaj Stjepan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46135	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bully, just a few things to get attached to which you have now stated on behalf of the Proposer, saying in general about the Act of Conduct. Of course it must be clear to us and the public that the executive law he let's say refers to the consequences, does not solve the problem at the core that our citizens really have here as we have heard almost 40 billion kunas of debt. What needs to be done and how the system relates to how these debts are charged and that is commendable. We're talking about reducing costs, about disproportionate consequences relative to some kind of baffled debt and bagatile performance, and that's what the objective of these changes was and was, although I have to admit that now I can't mention it on the council pages of just five amendments here I've heard a lot more, now I don't even know what right to finally let's say to the purity we're discussing. We are dealing with the consequences here, and the cause of course is something that we have to do much more far-reaching, that these people who are already aware of their debts, not to avoid paying them but to pay them really as little cost as possible of that debt, of course respecting the believers themselves, but that they have the opportunity to pay those debts. It means that the economy is such that it allows them to gain income that will pay back their debts because this slowly as we move on in the debate, I'm afraid that there is an impression that all debts will now be settled. No, we're just going to make it easier for those who owe it and we need to do it and of course we all support it. I am sorry that in the basic proposal for amending and supplementing the Implementing Law, it has not touched Article 172 which speaks of exceptions to the performance because today I could also submit the amendment that I have prepared for the purpose of exempting sins, goddesses and all other fees possibly for the use of my own car for official purposes and all that is going on,... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46136	Thank you. Replication response, Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46137	So about the causes of this executive law which can not be dealt with now, but certainly has caused huge consequences for Croatian citizens where most of the money is spent through interest on the land of the bank extruding banks and also public notebooks and numerous others. However, the fact is that because of the leprosy i.e. People are losing real estate due to the massive debt, so we have an example of people who pay back the entire loan, but first we get interest, the whole loan that's the capital and eventually loses their jobs and they have to get out of the apartment no matter how much they pay back, and the banks become the owners of that, and people are disbursed in the way we see them in Croatia alone. Yeah, he's the result of the eviction, and that means the waist says so. We see that the President of the Republic of Croatia has been involved, all experts and economic experts, all say that one of the major problems is blocked and is essentially the basis of this law which essentially established this law which is essentially at the expense of the Croatian man and he is anti-constitutional because it is not equal for everyone, he is enslaved here, i.e. He introduces people into debt slavery but with these citizens now, debt slavery, some even die as debtors and their successors continue to take over, it is injustice and cry out to heaven, it is the fight against the Croatian man. With this law, amendments to the law, the proposal of the Most Independent Lists and colleagues who have given their amendment and thank them for that, thank you to all who have discussed this, who have made proposals. And if there's a new, executive law, if it's better, I believe it'll be better after all this, there's no doubt that we won't support it. But the fact is that people don't have time to wait anymore because only last year, I'm going to repeat 56,000 people went to Germany, now we're not going to talk to Ireland and without... Data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46138	Thank you, Agent Buljo. The next replica, MP Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, just before I opened the data offered by my colleague Lalovac's statement, the banks were before, information from a month ago that banks sold 23 billion kunas of hard-to-charge or non-refundable claims. You know how much for? For five billion kunas. But almost entirely, you know who? Debt enforcement agencies. So the banks are about to say, so they won't, we're sick of it, here's your conjecture, and now they're doing it effectively, so they're psychologically treating the citizens. Now, gentlemen, we obviously didn't predict this in this law, which is what we're doing, maybe we are, but we have to sort this out somehow. If banks sell, why does that debt mean at that auction or conversation, why doesn't the state appear. And did the state have to buy 23 billion for 5 billion? You got it. How? Well, that's what I explained to you when I was putting out how to increase the revenues of the state budget. If internal debts were to be refinanced, the state in kunas would save 5 to 6 billion kunas, just for that. And he's dealing with the problem. But we can't get any expressions in this country. Why don't the citizens recognize these things? So you see how much we're fighting for you. But I'm convinced after what we're about to achieve, even though I'm worried about these statements by Mr. Salapic, because they give me the impression that this isn't going to work exactly the way we thought it would. That's why I called you as an opposition if that happens, we don't come here anymore. We need to show determination and fight for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46140	Thank you, Agent Lovrinović. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46141	Professor Lovrinović, your constructiveity is visible, your proposals are visible, they will help these proposals, your new ones, meaning knowledge, i.e., your colleague Lalovec said that a debt of 20 billion was sold to debt seekers somewhere for 5 billion and it certainly needs to be looked at and looked at, whether it can be changed by law, whether the state should take it over to facilitate our citizens and not to catch them on the streets these debt seekers who again charge some of their fees, earn. Yeah, it suits the banks, it's not here, and it's only for foreign banks, it's only for fees to come out 4.5 billion kuna and that's what we've been saying, we've seen pension funds, that half a billion kuna a year is going to pay them, on their profits, so huge money is being sucked out and in this way basically our young are leaving. And the consequence of one key to all of this is this executive law. So this law can also be considered a huge cause of the Croatian man's robbery, but it is even against the law so far, it is anti-constitutional. Where is the equality of every man here? Have we sworn to this Constitution or have we sworn to the banks of the white world here that rob Croatia's state, which also the regulator helps both HNAFA and HNB. Because the CNB had to notice that a Croatian citizen was poor, that he couldn't run the economy because of what was blocked, the entrepreneur was blocked, no one pays anyone anymore because you can't pay because you're blocked and the wheel is pulling us deeper and deeper. He's pulling us right into the river, so there's no way out. And that's why these changes are important as a message, it will help people and your amendments and MOST's amendments and colleagues Alexic but we need first and foremost government, I believe, government intentions and amendments and presidents of the Republic and all that we will all find together, send a message to the people that there is hope of living here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46142	Thank you, Agent Bull, for your reply to the replica. Next replica, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46143	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that these amendments to the laws proposed by MOST are not perfect but are a big step forward and we will support the law. What is the problem, however, is that with all those who already have executive procedures? So the vast majority of real estate, auctions are under way. If you go to the municipal courts site, look at the auctions, it's a sea of real estate, thousands. Now, we propose in our amendment that the article, article 44, should be amended and read: "Processings under way before the entry into force of this law will be completed by applying the provisions of this law regardless of when they are launched." In other words, we want this law to be applied to the performances that are already under way, and now, someone is going to say if it's possible, it's not possible. It's possible. So you have a credit law situation with no so-called international mark. Authorised believers. This law applies to all such loans concluded. So not entering into whether they are concluded before or after the adoption of this law, which means that we believe that there is a legal possibility that they are referring to performances in progress is now on the proposer means, to the Most Independent Lists whether they will accept this amendment that will actually put everything they are looking for into practical application, and practical application is all the procedures in progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46144	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Answer to your replica, Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46145	Thank you very much, colleague Pernar, for the constructive proposals and I expect that we will find together in this law that is not ideal because this amendment to the law that was predatory, which destroyed the Croatian economy, the individual, took a man's soul, dissociated him and the largest number of Croatian families became a debt slavery, and this law still changes some things, but thanks again for the constructiveity and good proposal. Otherwise, MOST suggests that out of the total number blocked for more than a year, 83% of the total debt was blocked, a large number of accounts are dead accounts. It's not charged, it's not charged, and the interest is still collected. So, we're going to unblock these changes, i.e. to unblock those accounts and there won't be any interest... But that's also true of the actions that are under way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a year that they are, and also the ones that are 10 years old. Ten years that are blocked, they're out of date. Of course there can be added a lot more and the effects of that, I don't have time to explain it now, but people will be free of interest and the effect of total debt will be much smaller for people and we'll free those people of those interest that are, and those who are in the process, we'll definitely get off their backs and that burden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46146	Thank you, Agent Buljo. And the last replica, Representative Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46147	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Bulj, you've been talking about amendments. The Live Wall and SNAGA Club handed over 11 amendments to this bill, there were 10, but after the debate and consultation we added that one, I hope you will accept them all. I'll draw your attention to a few of them. I don't know if you have experience, but in Croatia it can happen that, the Gestapo, the Gestapo without notice of the house on the door, delegates people out. Let's just say we're two parties in the process. I am the archduke, you are the perpetrator, the court informs me when they will come for your house, but do not inform you, they only come to you without notice. It's called secret mirage. That's why we've proposed an amendment to do this, to respect the practice that racist secret police have been doing, because it reminds me of that as an activist. To respect the principle of equality of parties in the process, as well as the executive and executive are parties in the executive procedure. I would also like to draw your attention to people who have not moved out of their real estate peacefully, we are asking by our amendment that this condition be deleted. Why? Because those who have warned and fought an official robbery, against the executive mafia, who have wanted to say a lot of them should also be allowed to have a place to be. So I invite you to accept that amendment as well. You should also say, executive issues, I repeat, it's not with the Executive Act, let's say we all know that FINA charges huge costs, even 20 kuna per print list, so that you know who blocked you and why, so you should appeal except for some laws and FINA... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46148	Replication response, Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46149	Thank you very much. My colleague Sincic, indeed the Living Wall has been its existence and has been pointing to these problems throughout its course. I'm a piece of my own, but on a local level, I've done similar things, I know this matter, and I really thank you very much for these constructive suggestions. I haven't been able to read, I believe they're well-intentioned, no doubt, and I hope that we'll meet at your club or ours a little later, to sit down, to see how we can implement this together in the best faith for our citizens in this legal text of these changes. I don't see any particular problem, but we should probably sit down and discuss the amendments and not have any problems here, what's acceptable, acceptable. And I'm sure it will be an amendment that will overlap perhaps partly with ours, perhaps with something else, so we can use the common language and implement yours during tomorrow's adoption of the final text of the amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46150	Thank you, Agent Buljo. We are now continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club, the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, representative Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, sir... Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, first of all, what I can say as a point is that we club will support the proposal of the Most Independent Lists and those amendments put up by the Government, so I'm saying, until today. I am today and now I am not able to manifest myself on behalf of the club on all the amendments made today, and so are those MOSTs because it is simply a very complex matter, which until it is read and studied, and sees what it changes in the whole system, each of these amendments, we cannot manifest ourselves. So, our support is secure about what was until yesterday, what we had on the Justice Committee, and what's after that, it's nice, please, something to talk about, which I believe the promoter should also see with the government and other clubs. I'm talking about amendments that are today, I can't make out about them, we're talking about what was until then. Any change, I will now speak here in two dimensions or two levels, if you will. One is technical, and it's purely about the executive law. Any change that happens here, which goes towards establishing a balance between debtors and creditors, because there has to be a balance, is more than welcome. There was a proposal, in most of its part it goes in that direction and the Government's amendment. And that's a good thing, and that's why we support it. I have these technical things that I've been telling the promoters, and I mean, but they've insisted on them and my God, it doesn't matter. I'll tell you a few examples. So far, we've had a decision on complaints in the same court in a three-judge council, which means that it decides much faster and much simpler. According to the proposal, this goes back to the old model of going to the County Court, it will extend the proceedings, interest will fall on the citizens' account. I don't think that's a good solution. Simply why every length of the procedure, all the longer it would be paid by citizens. So, so far it's been me talking in the last year, getting rid of it in the same court. Now he's going to go to county something that lasted a month, now it's going to take over a year. That's not good. Another thing, but I'm already moving on to maybe principle. So when we decide the system that there will be no execution on the only real estate, that's something that other countries don't know about. Of course, we strategically as a society can define ourselves in that direction. We need to figure out what it's going to be, we should figure out what it's going to bring if you want people who are trying to borrow it, whether they can get it if there's no mortgage. It's always a question that exists. But I suppose that's what the promoters have been evading and going in that direction. What bothers me about that is the lack of social criteria. So I'm absolutely into it that if we're already protecting the only real estate, if we're protecting a certain real estate that can't be sold below a certain value, that there must be a social criterion. An example. If I, with my salary as an MP, stop repaying the loan and I'm disbursed, there's no excuse for my state, for the citizens in my pockets to pay me those 18 months. I have enough money to rent an apartment and pay for it myself. And that's something I think should be corrected in the proposal. So let's introduce a social criterion here, and then we can expand it. Then it doesn't have to be 18, it could be months. But you can't pay the same thing and you can't pay the citizens, it's not fair for citizens to participate in the one who has a lot and can pay for the rent and the one who doesn't have and who needs the bread. The social criteria are important. And I think we should take care of that. The other thing is about a ban on selling the only real estate. The law, the bill doesn't distinguish the only real estate from the one that's necessary, so in this case, I got off on the wrong foot. At this threshold of 20,000 or 50,000 kuna, which is proposed, we can discuss what is the threshold below which the property cannot be sold. I am to put the threshold absolutely. In addition, in a good part, this bill was also created by the Ministry of Justice while I was a minister, to set the threshold. But again for the only real estate. I find the threshold unacceptable if it refers to a person who has a dozen properties. Why would it be a threshold? Why would someone who rents apartments, doesn't pay a reservation, so everyone else pays it, and say five apartments, and now neither one of them can be sold because we set some criteria. If the criterion is 50,000 kuna, it will always be 4900 kuna and will not pay, the other will pay. But I'm willing to be a threshold if it's the only existential property. That's what I see as a flaw in the proposal. That social criterion. And it's not the same, you have people who have tens of real estate and who are in debt. Why should they keep all their tithes if they are well aware of their earnings and do not pay. That's not good. And with this, when we put the threshold without connecting to the social criteria, we're sending a message right here. We heard a lot here in the debate, and I agree with everything she went, but let's take a step back. The exercise also applies to a person who is damaged, let's say by poor treatment at the hospital, so she was given a fee of 200, 300, 500 thousand kuna. So let's say the hospital doesn't want to pay? All these restrictions that we're introducing today will apply to that person as well. I would therefore suggest once again to consider that these restrictions go primarily for consumer loans, for consumer relations. It's the communals, that's the other stuff. But where someone did harm someone, somewhere they didn't support the child. Well, here you go again. Someone has five apartments, doesn't support a child. And we're gonna say now we can't sell it to him for child support. It's not good. Someone's got the only real estate that's really big, still doesn't support the kid. Why don't we sell it to him? Let's sell it, so let's keep it at 200 square feet, he'll have as many square feet as he needs for his apartment, and we'll settle this with the rest of them. I say the direction and intensity of the law is very good and that's why we're going to support it, but this is just saying that these are issues that are being opened now and that are going to open up to us in the future and we need to talk about them. I think we might be, but this isn't a criticism, this is an observation. All of us in the debate often when we talk about this law forget that it is not a law that does not solve the social picture of the country. It's the law, now I've set examples where we'd all say no matter how fast and hot it goes. I said child restraint, compensation for mistreatment, physical injury, disability, we can count. And we'd all be on the side of each other. Which is when someone borrows money and gets convicted for it so they won't come back, and we say ha, you can't, because we are. Why? We have to put and we have to take a step back. A citizen must be protected from the great system and that is what should be the policy and which should be incorporated into this law. Because it's not the same thing when you have two citizens in Ravna and sometimes it's convenient that this is what I said in relation to the hospital or when you have citizens that we all have in relation to the bank, telecoms, anyone, where you can't actually influence these terms of business, the rules, etc. That citizen needs more protection. That is one fine balance, which I must confess in my term, we have failed to achieve. It can't be achieved here either, but that's what you'd like us to do as a state, and I'm going to support anyone who can make that step now and in the future. It means protecting citizens from the big system. And as a society, if we really want to solve these problems, we can't send a message that something doesn't have to be paid. We should say that someone else will pay on the principle of solidarity. And I stand up for it, and as a party, we stand up for it, social housing. Why can't he just help someone who's taking out a loan, so he can't pay it back? What about the tenants? They didn't even have a loan, and as a society, we don't protect each other at all. So here's someone who's and... I was privileged, if you will, because he could take the loan, we'll pay him 118 months, that's fine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about the one who couldn't raise the loan, and the boss comes and throws him out overnight? We don't have a solution. We need social housing in society. It's one minimum we'll guarantee to all those who can't take care of themselves. Social energy minimum, too. It can't be a message that electricity doesn't have to be paid, but the one who doesn't have to pay for justifiable reasons, we have to pay him out of the budget. We, on the principle of solidarity, and that is the basic message to which we should go. So not to spend it, but not to put a man in a position to be done for it at all. One thing, therefore, is that they are some kind of principled strategic thing that I think we need to talk about and what a change of this law cannot bring and cannot solve. And when we change it, we should always think about this balance that I've talked about and that by looking at one example and solving it, we don't do any harm to someone else. It's always a risk. It may happen, but when it comes to good intentions, it is acceptable and will be corrected. What is important and what cannot be answered by the end of this law again, it is a matter of costs. You know, the tightest interest we had in Europe, we cut to the lowest rate. Is that enough? Obviously not. But it's unacceptable that the cost structure is what it is and what it is now. You have, like, a financial agency. Yeah, and she'll be in on it in the future or not, I'm not getting into it. But it's unacceptable for me that Finna, making income, earning profits at the expense of the citizens. My proposal to my fellow bridge colleagues, which is not related to this law, but as far as parallel laws are concerned, and we're going to go, we'll be able to talk, why shouldn't FINA work for free, if it has to do so by a certain amount. Why, with what right to charge a citizen an insight into what is happening to him? It's not in this law. But that's, that tells us how much we need a systematic approach here. Why didn't the state, all of us here, give up their work in public note fees. We can talk about them being lower, but if the state gives up, it'll be even lower. Once again, according to the principle of solidarity. And we can move on. So I'm saying one thing is these technical changes that have come well, I'm still, I'm building up, this is something new today, I can't, what's been so far, we're going to support it, but I suggest we think strategically in the future. Which we want from which institutions, but to go from next. Every debt has to be paid, because it allows the state, society to function, without it, it's gone. Only this debt, not to be unfair, must the citizen be protected from a large system, and those who do not, and unfortunately there are many, we must help on the principle of solidarity. And then it's just society, then it's a society in which I'm sure all of us sitting here as Parliamentarians can give support and that's the direction we should go. So here's why I'm calling on the ministry to start talking about it, and on that trail, these are changes that are paliable, which will bring some relief, but let's not have the illusion that they're going to solve the problem. They won't solve the problem. The problem is putting citizens in a different relationship to the big system. So far, whoever's working. And that's not where we're supposed to share, now I could tell who did what we did, what we did and what these before, that doesn't make any sense. We have a problem that we'll all solve together, or we won't get rid of at all. And the problem is big, not just because of these blocks. The problem is, in modern society, you as citizens are powerless in front of a large system. And it's a paradigm that needs to be changed and where we have to act differently. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46152	At the presentation of the Milenic representative, we have one replica. It's a replica from Agent Pernar. Here you go, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46153	Thank you, dear colleague Miljanic. In the end, you have brought this executive law and its amendments to work that were not in the interest of most perpetrators. Unfortunately. Or, let's say most, but in the interest of all the perpetrators. If the current law had been good, if you had changed it, you might not have lost the election. Maybe people would say, you see how socially sensitive SDP is. However, people saw that during the time of SDP, decommissioning was going at a great speed, that in essence of mercy there was no, that Christmas Day, the resurrection, the regress were not excluded from the performance, that the debts did not go out of date after a million years, so it was simply a law to measure Marijan Hanžekovic, as compared to those who charge 1000 kuna for the kuna and so on. So I invite you to make all constructive remarks, nicely in the form of amendments, suggest everything that's worth it, some faults you've pointed out as saying you're giving replacement accommodations to someone who might not even need it. Nicely propose amendments, we will accept any amendment that is constructive and together we will build a better solution. But we invite you all SDP deputies to support this law because this law essentially goes in favour of most of our society's citizens, and unfortunately, for many years, injustice has been done without talking about human tragedies that have been the result of the execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46154	Thank you, Agent Pernar. Replicate reply, MP Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46155	Thank you very much. So I said we didn't make it to the end of this balance, and I hope that we can come to it as a society. I also said that this is one shift in the right direction, such as, that's my opinion, it doesn't have to be yours and our shifts were in the right direction compared to what was before. And all that goes in the right direction is welcome, we'll support that. I haven't been able to come up with an amendment that would correct this thing, I have to say, and if I do, we'll deliver it because it's very complicated and it's not easy considering the whole law complex. This will probably require a new law and making, so I've said it more here as an example of what we should do than what we can do right now. We're all on the same track anyway. I'm not going to get into some things, but I think we're probably thinking alike, and in that, so debt when there is to be paid, only payment has to be such that it doesn't ruin you, that there's no industry of debt that makes more money than the one that originally needed to get and that's done as politely as possible, as humanely as possible. And I think that's the direction that we can all agree here at this point, now it's a performance thing. And what I said about those changes and the proposal that we've been exposed to on the Justice Committee is something that we absolutely support, so there's no need to invite us to do that. What's come today, we need to see it, at this point because of the simple complexity of matter I dare say no, because whenever you change something, you might do more damage even in the direction we want to go. So here we are, here we are talking. We can all contribute, we all have some knowledge of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46157	Okay. We move on to the second debate, it's the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the Honorable Representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46158	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HNS Club will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act. Of course right away in the beginning I mentioned both in the debate and in the replica now it is more difficult to follow than these 20-ac, 30-ac amendments which is precisely this purgatory final part of the law. I'll briefly look back at some individual things that I'd like to apostrophe what's being passed by this law that we've had the opportunity to hear, first of all it's about charging, let's say so-called. the realisation of adjudicating disputes or disputes so far that have gone without a decision on power of up to 5, 10 thousand kunas, which is thus equal to the rest of them as judicial decisions or legal disputes. Namely, this is what was most of course whenever we talk about performances we talk about in the first hand about the vast majority of those who pay much higher costs because of the small amounts, much higher amounts at the end and therefore come into trouble and it is one of the basic intensities of amending this law. First of all, we think that what I mentioned here is that we can't talk about some magic wand that will write off all the debts, that the debts must be paid, but certainly in the conditions in which they must be paid, it certainly doesn't matter how much the costs will be for our citizens and that's what I mean is the main message and the amendments to these laws. In addition, Article 62 is amended, it is related to the reasons in the counter, if double-charged amount, it goes with a kind of compensation of 400 kuna which, in the larger amounts, I think is irrelevant, but it is just important for those smaller disputes of a few hundred kunas to simply come to the point of stressing their need to withdraw or return the double-paid item within eight days. Of course, what is the biggest change I hear about right now is there are additional amendments to the amount of real estate or the only real estate that can be made for the amounts below 20 I don't know now 50 or in what percentage, now we don't know what the final proposal of these changes will be, and that's the goal and that social aspect that we need to go to and which we support, and that's maybe one of the most important changes that we bring here. Also, the most social aspect of this law, although it may not be fully resolved only by the Executive Act, is also called for by the Social Care Centre, and the matter is about the right to accommodate 18 months or the accommodation fee for those who had to leave their only property, it is referred to the Social Care Centre and I suppose the cost of the state budget somewhere in the social contributions items. Also what's the same, I'm going to speed up a little bit and see that colleagues and impatient, what matters is what we do that we're doing right now and requests for direct payment. So now, for all disputes, when FINA completes a certain amount, it does not immediately go to direct payment but 60 days stands as in court disputes in the decision on power disputes. So that's where we get this one period, if something in the meantime is paid to get straight, straight, and then it's just going to be passed on to the believer, so I absolutely support it. What was our intensity and my personality and unfortunately we failed and therefore shows that because of this force of amendment that we received in the meantime from the final proposal and after the Government, and that in these final amendments and amendments to the Implementing Law, Article 172 was not touched. Unfortunately, we can't change it now with amendments and he's talking about exemption from the exercise. Of course, when the theme opened that the public involved and the professional associations had come forward with their proposals. And of course something that is quite healthy is reasonable that the performance should be excluded and those untaxable receipts of citizens based on those up to an annual level of 2.5 thousand kuna first of all. So we're talking about regression, Christmas and resurrection, but also other receipts like the cost of expenses, travel on the official road by car, then severances. Or if people lose their jobs, get severances, the purpose of that severance is to have what to live on in that period until they find a new job. And if it goes into blockade, people have nothing to live on, of course. And that's certainly something that a legislator needs, and we all think about when it comes to adopting maybe this announced new executive law because even many times it has proven that people are very people, when all their colleagues at the firm or most of them get a Christmas card that they plan to improve their budget or regress or resurrection, and they unfortunately can't get it because they're sitting on a blocked account. With this being a note that we would certainly like to see, of course, including that we will support these original changes that came on the benches that we can't and we can't say what's going to happen with all these amendments because we simply can't see them anymore, I've managed to catch something here all day, but we haven't got everything on the benches yet, we don't have a cleanup, we're going to be particularly obvious and obviously we all have to but that this is going in the right direction. Of course we're talking about the consequences here, not the causes. Clearly, it is very clear that the executive law will help our fellow citizens to some extent, however, but those who have already suffered certain consequences not only of this executive law but also of the economy in which they have no longer been able to repay loans, where the price of real estate has dropped dramatically from those loans which have raised and estimated values and that we must certainly think about one comprehensive action that will cause these people who owe something, not to make it easier for them to accidentally not have to pay their debt because the debt must be paid, the basic, the principal above all, rather than to ensure that they can earn it and have the money to pay the debts. Because we can't, as Milenić used to say, we have a different sphere of bathtub with, when believers are just citizens, we have to watch out for the broader aspect of this law. Once again, the HNS club absolutely supports these changes and it will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46159	We have one replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46160	A respected colleague said it is not disputed that debts must return, however, that is the problem I keep trying to point out, so-called. The theoretical indemnity of debt. Namely in the current monetary system where the money itself is a loan, so the money only becomes a loan, all the money we have with us right now is a loan and we have to pay the interest on it and the money for the payment of interest has never been made. So the banks only gave the principal loans. They gave you, say, a gentleman for a housing loan of 100,000 euros, asking for 200 back. And now imagine that they gave all parliamentary deputies a 100 thousand-euro loan and they want 200 and those other 100 grand for interest are never created, it doesn't exist. And that's why the debt of all Western countries is growing, which is why Croatia's debt is growing, which is why credits cannot be recovered, and that's why debt cannot be recovered, the Living Wall has triggered resistance to operations or to an executive system that is only an extended hand of the credit system with the central bank as a currency exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46161	Sir and gentlemen. Come on, reply to the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46162	Thank you, Mr. President, just for a little while. We have to be careful in these discussions when we talk about the height of the principal and interest, and there we can discuss whether it's too big or not, but let's not get into the sphere of being in a situation where there's no chance of getting a loan at all. Because personally, I wouldn't have an apartment today if I hadn't taken a loan, I wouldn't have, I don't have those funds, I could have waited 35 years for how much credit it is, and then maybe buy it or 29 if we took off interest. So we can't just go into that danger of going to extremes so we don't get pie more expensive than a tepsia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46163	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will briefly interrupt the debate on the final draft law on amendments and amendments to the Implementing Law The next in line is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Marko Šimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46165	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I wanted to say to the esteemed secretary of state, but there is none of the motions currently in the assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all and, as the draftr of this law himself has stated by the Implementing Law, the procedure of forced pursuit and the procedure of voluntary judicial and public law enforcement. The implementing law also regulates material and legal relations based on enforcement procedures and, together with the Law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets, constitutes the legislative framework for the implementation of the extrajudicial exercise carried out to the greatest extent by FINA and has shown that these enforcements are through the FINA and are most effective. This Implementing Law was adopted in 2012 and has gone through a series of amendments to make the provisions of the law better implemented in the practical implementation of the Implementing Act and make this whole process further improved and more effective. The latest series of amendments and additions to the law comes to the MOST initiative, this proposal for amendments and amendments to the law was discussed in the first reading during two days of debate in the Croatian Parliament. All the club representatives and interested representatives in this debate have presented their opinion and proposals to improve this legislative proposal, so on behalf of the HDZ, I will not excessively extend this debate, I will present only a few drafts of the position of our club and I will present certain improvements and certain views on certain provisions of this law. I believe that it should be pointed out that through the debate a large number of proposals have appeared to improve this legislative proposal, which shows the sincere interest of representatives to form a better legal solution to define the implementation of the implementation. During earlier discussions, colleagues pointed out that it might be better if the task of passing such a law was actually passed on to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to bring it into line with the professional public, with a wide public interest, and to gather the opinion of institutions and entities participating in the process of implementation and are probably best informed of the problem it seeks to settle these amendments and additions to the laws. The proposer proposes to establish the competent authorities, handling and compensation for the implementation of Regulation 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a procedure for a European account blocking order in order to simplify the cross-border payment of debt in civil and commercial matters, which is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to fulfil as soon as possible. In addition, the proposer introduced a series of solutions proposed and organised by the working group set up by the Ministry of Justice to the final draft in question. Thus, these amendments and amendments to the law propose leaving the Council of First Instance as a second-degree body, increasing the amount of salaries and pensions or other permanent monetary income of the perpetrators which is excluded from the exercise in the event that the exercise is carried out on the salary of the payee, pension or second permanent income of the perpetrators who are less than the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. Measures shall be introduced to prevent abuse of non-judicial enforcement on the basis of false forged executive documents. It's a pay base. Legal means shall be prescribed to protect the perpetrators in the event they are carried out against them on the basis of the debtor. It is possible for the executives to learn the personal identification number of the perpetrators, a special type of sanctions shall be imposed in respect of 400 kuna for the officers who, during the judicial or non-judicial exercise, have been double-settled. Furthermore, in the final proposal for a law, a special emphasis was placed on the protection of the only property as a matter of purpose which was made and to a considerable extent in line with the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the need to protect the only property from the exercise. In spite of the view that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the legislative proposal submitted by the applicant to us on the benches, it has made a series of 13 amendments that the HDZ representative club will support, because we believe that in many ways they improve the legal proposal earlier, or that a single solution from the final proposal needs to be further completed or otherwise arranged for a comprehensive debate in the first reading and the number of amendments that we have received for the second reading. I'm going to point out a few things that have been intrigued in this legislative proposal that I consider really good. And this is a question of additional protection for those with the lowest income in the Republic of Croatia, these are all those who receive below the average salary, below the average pension, for which the amount is protected from the application is increased. From today's 2/3 salary to 3/4 which is certainly a move worth the attention and I'm glad he found his place in this amendment. Since 2006, systematic improvements have been sought in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia to introduce provisions that would speed up the implementation process and make it more efficient and efficient. In the past 10 years, this model of enforcement has been gradually upgraded, improved, through a series of laws amending and supplementing the Implementing Law, last in 2006, which had a more effective implementation of the procedure, a more uniform distribution of the case and, lastly, by amending and supplementing the Implementing Law, the public notebooks have been given the opportunity to use data on residence data from the MUP records as well as data from the OIB’s records by electronic means. This amendment to the laws of the possibility of obtaining information about the perpetrator is also given to the executive as one of the parties to the procedure, to speed up this process, and to save the executive money and time to learn the identity of the perpetrators. Therefore, the Ministry of the Interior is obliged to give the number of identity certificates of the perpetrators at the request of the executive. The most important and important questions to which this law should be answered are to balance the needs of quick and efficient collection of someone's claims that are truly someone's property and the need to preserve some social component that we have in society today and to protect in some way the believer that we are trying to create here today is a serious topic. As a rule, there are two interests in the exercise itself, the interest of the executive to charge his claims and the interest of the perpetrators as soon as possible to stop with the charge until the moment when the opportunity does not occur for the perpetrator to obtain the necessary money and to settle his obligations. Furthermore, we do well to consider a provision which prevents an infringement of an out-of-contract property except when obligations arise because of failure to comply with the maintenance and compensation obligations caused by a criminal offence. In order to protect the perpetrators of the natural person, the existing legal provision under which the property is not actually considered necessary to meet the life needs of the perpetrators and persons legally required to maintain, and stipulates that such property is actually considered necessary to meet the personal needs of the perpetrators and persons required by law to maintain such property. I also support the proposal to reject a proposal to implement a demand whose principal does not exceed 20000 kuna, while for the amount of the claim, more than 20000 kuna, the court may refuse to request an executive to sell the property if it considers that the sale of the property would distort the fair balance between the interests of the perpetrator and the interest of the executive. We also believe that assistance in housing is the most vulnerable groups of society that at the time of implementation do not have the purpose, i.e. must leave the only real estate and which remain without a roof over our heads, obligations to all of us as well as society, both by this and by the state. Thus, these amendments to the laws of the perpetrators in such a situation are given a mechanism for a transitional period of 18 months for their finding and finding a more lasting solution to the problem. As I have mentioned earlier, I believe that we should simply gather around this law as a Parliament, and thus show real quality debates. Most colleagues are aware that we cannot remain silent about everything that happens in society. Those pictures are shaken. We see that 20% of citizens live in poverty, live a really difficult life. As far as I'm concerned, I think there's room to improve this protection of the executives in the executive law, with the fact that, of course, we can't violate the system, because we have to have a balanced system in which both the executive and the perpetrator exist. Let us not forget that the basis of the executive law and many children have charged child support from unconscious parents who have not paid for their support. And many small craftsmen and businessmen, companies paid off the unconscious business partners of the claims they had, and when they charged them, they were able to pay their employees their salaries, continue their work and business. The Club of Representatives will accept and support this proposal by proposing with certain amendments and adjustments presented to the Croatian Assembly through amendments in this second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46166	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46167	Dear colleague, here I thank you for this constructive presentation which in the spirit of the entire debate we have since this morning, where practically all clubs and all MPs have agreed to these amendments to the executive law that we need. The whole public agreed on this, even the expert, and the president and her round table joined, where she asked for even more radical changes than the ones we have here. I think this is along with the amendments that we have made as a club of MOST and which other club representatives have given a rational proposal that will greatly help our citizens in charge and blocked. And one big part of them that goes abroad because of that condition. I hope he stays in Croatia. We have this whole spiral of evil as he called it this morning, fellow Runtic, where we have long-term blocked dead accounts. And now with this bill of law, these amendments will finally stop. All those interest rates that have accumulated for years will be written off. They will be able to restart the execution, but only for the principal and those interest that come after that, but not for what was before. These are very important changes. And regardless of what the secretary of state said that we agreed on a major part, but not about these amendments, this agreement here in the Croatian Parliament shows that we must go in this direction and all together support this proposal. And here I thank you for the debate on behalf of the Most Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46168	The answer of fellow Shimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46169	Dear counterpart Grmoja, you are indeed right to have a constructive debate today with very good proposals to improve this law, as well as a debate that opens up a number of issues that need to be regulated in the future by a modern executive law. I am pleased that there is indeed one serious intention at the Ministry of Justice to bring one of these quality overall and overall, so solutions that would answer all the questions that are currently current in blocked people, among the people who are in the problem of performance. Therefore, here is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, as I have said, so in our debate it will support this proposal in the hope that we will have a whole and comprehensive executive law as soon as possible, which would solve other issues that have become current and which have really opened up after we started to consider this final amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46170	Dear colleague Pernar, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46171	Thank you, Chairman. Any amendment to the Executive Act will ultimately have to regulate the question of the costs of the Executive Procedure. Our point is not that the cost of the deed is not paid but that it may be reasonable. So it's not reasonable that on the 5 kuna debt, the cost of the execution is 700 or 800 kuna, and unfortunately, it's such a practice, so the transfer of part of the cost of the execution to the executives will, in fact, unite both the executives and the perpetrators to the fact that the costs themselves are being reduced, i.e., that this executive industry is simply, in some ways, pacified, that this is not the most profitable business in the country. And I'm saying, I'm glad the HDZ will support it, I believe it will support it. And our goal together is to find the best solution in essence for the perpetrators, and of course, it's not the aim of preventing the charge of the executives, but to carry out the costs themselves at reasonable amounts, because if the cost of the execution is, instead of, like, 600 kuna, 100 kuna, then it'll be much easier to charge the executive who started the commission, for example, 100 kuna. Why? Because in the current system, first they charge the costs of the execution, and then the search itself and simply the search itself because of these great costs of the execution, is late to be charged. It must not be a matter of priority, or, as you would say. It should be a priority payment of the claim and the possibility of paying for it in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46172	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46173	Dear colleague Pernar, I thank you for the replica because I really believe that this replica of yours has been constructive in this debate, and that indeed here today we are all trying to find the best legal solution to this issue. As for the costs of the executive procedure. The costs of each procedure must be settled. There are always costs of some kind, and I am sure that, here, and that the representatives of the ministry at this debate have found that this is also one of the issues that will need to be better arranged for a new, whole, therefore, comprehensive implementing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46174	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, distinguished colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46175	My colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here, the Association of Assembly MPs of the HSS will support changes to the law of the executive, although we have all already discussed and we agree that this is only part of the amendments that we have to make in the executive law to help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that it does not solve all the problems and that only part of the citizens who have been completed will benefit from these changes, but here we are thinking that this procedure and this law, whenever it helps any citizen, especially when it is a large part of the citizens, and we have heard numbers, that 328,000 citizens in the Republic of Croatia are blocked by 3 members of their family, means we have about a million citizens in the Republic who are outside, due to the blockades outside of the economic system and are socially endangered, and especially when we are comparing and we hear data, that official data and statistics say that there are about 29% of the population in the Republic of Croatia at risk of poverty. That 54% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are lucky to work, have income, cannot settle their current costs with their incomes. And that way, these changes in law will help in part of our citizens. Of course, questions are being asked how to further improve our legal proposal, so our remarks within the meaning of Article 1 where the bill provides for the abolition of the three-member council, the first-degree court to decide on complaints for ineffectiveness in courts where there are fewer judges, and the decisions on the appeal are left to the judge to the second-degree court. I'm asking if there's been a projection, how many cases that would go to a second-degree court, when we know that in courts, we have first unequal court practice and that we have a lack of judges and overloaded those same and especially in what technical conditions they do, whether you have enough offices, tables, computers and other equipment and the necessary workforce. I think we're just going to stall these procedures and charge the executioners who are going to fall on them, and we certainly have to take care of it when we pass a complete law. Of course the HSS supports that the only real estate cannot be completed, but of course we warn of height, which has already been said for a long time that must not be less than 20, but than 50,000 kuna. And of course that won't help all citizens, but surely one piece will, and that's why we support this amendment, which has been said, to increase that amount from 20 to 50 thousand kuna. In addition, it should be impossible to block the accounts of citizens or businesses that have led to more than 330,000 blocked citizens. Croatia should introduce an executive system such as Austria, Germany or part of Slovenia in which up to 2000 euros are spent automatically, electronically. And above all, the court decides, and we are driving this citizen system into a gray economy, because it is not possible to conclude a contract of work, to escape from being reported or sent to Germany by the employer. In that Germany, the insolvency company is referred to a deal with creditors or bankruptcy, while we through this executive law are pushing companies into a blockade, especially small craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and for years their giro account has been completed, there is no possibility of further business and there is no possibility of the credentials to be charged and I think that this German model is much better to go into a settlement or to declare bankruptcy, and as far as citizens are concerned, they can settle their obligations or through a settlement, through payment of the debt to permanent orders, and when the amount is greater then the method and model for this debt to be reprogrammed as it was done in Great Britain and Italy. Why don't we draw on those experiences, and we don't propose such models in the new Implementing Law. We're also in a dilemma about three-quarters of the salary being out of business. It is okay to increase from two-thirds to three-quarters, but I warn of those 54% of citizens who, due to their low incomes, cannot meet current obligations so they will not be able to live with these three-quarters especially with us in Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, Podravina and some other areas where there are few jobs and where workers work by 2.5.3,000 kuna, so you take how many three-quarters and can live with it. When it comes to Article 18, which provides for the right to accommodation at 18 months and the payment of accommodation expenses, here we have one dilemma, whether and after eight months we will be able to bring the state into a situation with that accomplished citizen who has been moved to a social apartment, is he in these circumstances until the economic situation in Croatia changes, until he is given the chance to hire him to have adequate incomes not even after 18 months to get out of that apartment. What then? I think we should look at the management of that social component and set those deadlines a little differently. And the same problem is the overburdening of the social care center, I don't know if they're consulted on this when we know that they're under-opted that they're already overworked with the Family Law and their other affairs, and I think this will further complicate this executive procedure, and yet to the harm of the performers. Here are the dilemmas that have not been solved for all of us to be together through the preparation of a whole new Executive Act in that public debate, but since we said this was a fire department that we must urgently help the completed citizens support these amendments and amendments of the law until it comes before us a complete new Executive Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46176	Thank you. It's two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46177	Dear colleague, I thank you on behalf of the club for the debate and for the support of this bill, although you have now gone through these articles concerning this original proposal that has been agreed before, there are, of course, all the amendments that have been given by other club representatives and the Most Club itself, which will make this bill even better, socially more sensitive and it will definitely be one good part of our citizens unblocking and helping them, and of course we ourselves are seeking to make a whole law. But what I am already in the debates pointed out, what we are going to be confident tomorrow will help one large number of our citizens and the good news about it here in the Croatian Parliament is that we have this level of consensus and that is what can make us all happy and shows that, in fact, with all our differences that exist and conflicts that we can often witness here in the Croatian Parliament when the interests of our citizens are at stake that we can find a common language. Thank you again on behalf of the Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46178	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46179	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Grumo, of course the HSS supports these amendments to the Executive Act because it protects citizens from the system and often this citizen does not have the possibility of legal protection blocked, is often left to himself and these amendments to the law will help many citizens. Of course, these amendments that have been tabled here today are heading towards improving the law and to help citizens even more, and I think that you, as well as the ministry and here the present secretary of state, need to sit down, discuss these amendments and find a consensus that will be adopted tomorrow because we are already behind the amendments and the adoption of a new executive law because the alarming situation is 328 thousand blocked, and 1600 newly blocked have already heard the information at the beginning of this year. And such proposals as this and as we have supported the proposal of the Association of Franak and Mr Alexic for the Consumer Protection and Consumer Credit Act again, I believe that they are restoring the citizens' trust in us to the parliamentary representatives and to this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46180	Another replica, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46181	On behalf of the HSS Club, you have supported this law and you have found that this law is a joint proposal from the Most Independent Lists to the Joint Forces can be directed to correct this pre-existing law, but it is a fact that you have shown that all amendments and other legal provisions that should be in the interest of citizens from the numerous social criteria and other problems you have pointed out is the fact that not everything can be solved by the Executive Law. But you have also noticed well, not only you but all the other clubs that have been giving amendments and you who have participated together with us and the ruling majority, all together with the Government and the President of the Republic and the Demographs who have sent a message to their team with the president together that one of the biggest causes is blocked citizens, and surely we can all change things for the better, correct huge injustices towards man and family first and to the basic community that needs to be strengthened, and not in any way displaced, and that we remain only young people like in Slavonia in Posavina with you and in my Dalmatian Zagora. And the fact is that a little since I've been in the Parliament this way, with some exceptions, of course no one needs to blame anyone, is this and ultimately a political ring, but the fact that in this case, the Croatian Parliament and the opposition and the government have shown that this is the central place of decision and, of course, the government has participated, we all tried together, regardless of the ideological, political and other differences, for the first time this Parliament has shown that it will stand in the interest of citizens against this bad law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46182	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46183	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Bulj, of course we supported these amendments and the additions of the laws because it is amazing that 328 thousand citizens in Croatia are blocked and that only after the public change through the media, the Association Blocked, the Franak Association, when the noise is raised that only then we are going to initiate the adoption of amendments to the law, the adoption of new laws. Only when journalists start writing about it, when associations react. I think that we Parliamentarians have some responsibility as well as the current government and ministers who have not reacted more promptly because this growth from 2014 to 2017 from 315 thousand, 330 thousand blocked is amazing that it happened that the system did not react. And for this reason, I am pleased that around this present law and the two laws proposed by the Franak Association and Mr Alexic have reached a high degree of consensus, that a large number of parliamentary deputies also support the adoption of these laws, and the amendments to those laws, I believe that even tomorrow when they agree these amendments will be unanimously passed and these amendments to the benefit of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46184	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates now. He's the first respected colleague of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One of the biggest problems that we are all aware of in the Republic of Croatia are our citizens, man, family, I have said this before where the threat is maximum and where essentially so many problems, social these people are reduced to the level that the people who created their family, who were waiting for their full-time job, waited for their grandchildren to today simply because of the blocking of accounts, due to the unfair executive law as one of the of course very big problems to be pointed out by all relevant institutions, all experts. And here is the unity in the Republic of Croatia is certain, this time it has shown this unity and first of all I must express my pride that this assembly is still discussing the scale of the problem, which is to help and protect the Croatian man from this ruthless law that has been so far and this is the executive law. And therefore, I am personally proud that one of the key things is essentially to be changed by an amendment added by the MOST club as a proposer, which means protecting the only real estate and where it prevents the implementation of the property that is burdened with the property due to the loan contract, the case where the principal's value is greater than the creditor's paid. This is the case for you when a person pays, since in Croatia more interest is paid at the beginning, so pay the entire loan, basically it remains for a few years to pay the credit, but more than the principal paid the credit, lost the job and cannot continue to pay, and today we watch the most of the performances. That's what the Living Wall came into being with its activities, and that's what I saw in my midst, how people, how their families fell apart, how families they created and fought. And I hope this case is gonna show that we're gonna help a lot of people and I don't see any problem. It is also good that our colleagues in the Assembly also realized that it is necessary to raise up to 50 thousand kunas where the principal does not cross, that the real estate executions cannot be done, with this, that is, a solution is given around 220 thousand people is otherwise in these baffled debts where their interest on dead accounts is mainly in the first year, that is the largest part, the first year, where, in one year where people cannot repay their obligations or can be completed. With this proposal, amendments to this proposal where it will be and the part will be unblocked, where interest will be lifted and where these debts will be made easier for people. Of course, in the Croatian state, I also received one piece of information that it is possible that banks were selling debts of 20 million kuna and that is what Professor Lovrinović said, 20 million kunas would sell for 4 million kuna, it seems to me either 5, or even said 20 billion kuna. I'm not sure but the fact is it sells to those who are going to exorcise debts, companies that are going to exorcise debts. This also requires new Implementing Law, a comprehensive and new legislative amendment. But at this point, this is the last straw of salvation for a number of people going out. The fact that Sterc and Akrap themselves as experts have long warned about this problem and surely by passing this law, by amending the laws proposed by the Most Independent Lists we will help a number of people in this situation, an unexplainable situation where property is being carried out, where people remain blocked by accounts and there will be no longer life-long debt slavery. So this system isn't at all, this law has never been established before, there was no equality here. There's been a life of slavery of blocked accounts here. So it's so increased and working on black. Or people would ask to work for blocked accounts, to give them money to feed their families. So imagine how many people who have worked for 40 years or who have lost their jobs after 30 years, how many are in containers because of blocked accounts that collect bottles. Because of these people, it is the good unity of all of us in this House, the greatest House, and that is the greatest message from the people who are waiting for us. The ideal law is none but here the changes are huge and MOST's Independent Lists is the main goal. Basically, when I began to engage in activities, i.e. As an activist in Sinj, I've seen many problems. So I'm going to tell you about the problem of Dalmatian workers, workers who have worked bloodyly, who, either the Cetins of Trillium or other companies who have worked their entire working life and eventually lost their jobs, are now blocked accounts, their children are leaving, and they've tried, they've created good and they've created smugglers, and Yugoslav workers, so many companies, the ironworks of Split, numerous industries, now we're talking about their end, and in other parts. The fact that this law opens up the possibility for these people to catch air, stay in our areas, create good ones, and we won't talk about a number of OPGs that are blocked, they simply can't function, that's why your fields have grown up in the weeds, because people simply don't have the opportunities or the conditions to run somewhere if their accounts are blocked unfairly, and the interest rate banks take ruthlessly. So here a few days ago, here was the discussion of banks, where it was found, the fact here when they were Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, the annual fees and fees that have countless, 4 and a half billion kunas of banks take and invest their own countries where our young people run away. And also pension funds, huge fees are taken, huge interest rates and these changes and these amendments that we all need to coordinate together, accept, agree, I'm proud to be one of the 151s that I'm here today in the assembly, what we do directly for our citizens, all, regardless of left or right, because this is not an ideological or secular issue. This is a question for the benefit of our citizens and our young families to survive in our areas, mainly in the areas of Slavonia, like, Dalmatian Zagora, Gorski Kotar and those areas where they run from. No matter what this House may be often thinking about, there should be debates, there should be disagreements on some subjects, but on this subject we have shown unity today with certain exceptions, of course, it is natural, we are all living beings, and we are all thinking and looking at different, but this day today and tomorrow, if we vote this out, let us be sure that we can proudly return to our houses, and look people in the eyes that we have made our maximum even if I am the last day in this House. This Parliament has become the center of the events of these legislative changes where we help a man, against stakeholders, and this is the basic goal of our parliamentary representatives to be uniquely ruling, whether they are opposition, we should uniquely try to do what is best with these legal changes because the fact that these numerous amendments also say that they need a new executive law, and I hope that you will be just as other legal changes that are needed to be resolved and cannot be resolved by these legal amendments. All we need to do is make our man, the young man, stay in rural areas, in undeveloped areas. While our citizens are being kicked out of the big cities of the apartment, as they protest, as they block, while the Living Wall and all the others who watch as they actively participate, warn, so many villages remain empty. All because of the law so far. What my colleagues used to say, and about amendments and about laws and colleagues from the ruling majority and colleagues who have given amendments, indeed this is one day in this House that we have all stood together with one big thing, along with the important thing, to help an ordinary man, to help families, 330 thousand blocked times 3.4 means somewhere between a million and 200 thousand, a million and a half Croatian citizens today are unhappy, if we bring this today only with these 50,000 kunas, so that no real estate can be completed, we have helped a great number of people. Just so these dead accounts are unblocked and the interest is wiped out for a year, nothing loses that bank is expropriating our money here, which affects our circulation than we are here first, we have to fight for every single person to stay in Croatia. I repeat, and I call upon our citizens to do everything we need to do and send a message to stay in these areas. Today we've sent everyone a message, stay and fight in your neighborhoods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46186	Comrade Bull, time. Now you will be attacked by a Trillian replica, a respected counterpart, Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not going to attack because I'm really going to be the same in this spirit today, this harmony that rules over this proposal of law enforcement, of conduct. The proposal of MOST, the Living Wall and the SNAGA should indeed be welcomed, and it should also be mentioned that the Government may not be for the first time, but I believe that in the future it will be even more so when it comes to the bill's proposals, it has shown understanding above all of the people who live, and here are truly frightening data, numbers that are tormenting and burdensome, and that I believe, by this act, by common act, of this new law, of the bill, which is before us, the arguments that have been presented here, amendments that we have already heard that the Government has quite harmonised and accepted. To greet her, and I simply wanted to join my colleague Bulj, today with a short few words, which is yes, you mentioned in the Chetino area, many people are squirming in problems precisely because of this. One of the reasons for eviction, you said well, is that, and I know from reliable and from my neighbors, from reliable sources to say, that people are looking for alternative directions to get rid of and here, let's say, my neighbor who makes money in Germany is under wraps, one example, a classic example, and they've come to him in what way to take away from him and from that German salary, therefore, I believe that this law, which the government first of all on your initiative, will show considerable seriousness and understanding to the current moment, not only, we said, not only the government, but also the President, and indeed, it should be in this spirit, in this atmosphere to approach problems like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46188	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46189	Here on behalf of my colleague, Šipić, on behalf of the promoter of the Most Independent Lists, and thank you, regardless of how much you are in construction. Because today there is a common ground when we fight for a man. Regardless of being in the SDP, being in HDZ, I know there will be many more debates here and they should be, where sometimes they will be sharper, where there will be arguments. And in this case where we're showing that we're trying to help every man mostly where we come from in the Cetina region, it's known that 25 years ago we had 70,000 people, that in 2011, it was on the 48 list, and believe me, it's just less and less people that we're going to reach half less. That's not how it happened in the Turkish Empire either. And certainly that Sterc Demograph and Akrap as high-quality people, they have long warned that one of the key problems of these very blockades and the executions of mainly people who are in rural, underdeveloped areas where they cannot deal with any activity other than agriculture, where the accounts are blocked and they cannot develop any projects and programmes or compete if they are blocked and mostly younger families. And they're leaving. That's why our Son's Field is empty, i.e. It doesn't work like it used to. Our barns are empty, no more cattle like they were, those are facts. Why isn't he here? Because there's no dawn, there's no people. Looking from Aržan to the citizens of our Cetina region, it's sad when we pass that there are no more cattle like it used to be. That's why I'm really proud, and here I am, not me, but I believe that people will notice this common spirit and that this Parliament will become the center of decision-making in the interest of individuals, not in the interest of interest of stakeholders who spend money in other countries through banking lobbys where it is helped and the CNB, where they all helped But at this very moment, we should also commend the President of the Republic and the Government's intentions. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] who helped everyone together. [[Bulj fellow president, thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46190	Come on, please, let's stick to it for two minutes. ... No, it's like a sign to go too fast, not to drive too fast. [[You can't hear me.]] Better be careful than to punish a cop. Okay. Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46191	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. One man writes to you, and one man writes: “Dear Mr. Pernar! I'd like to ask you a question about the amendments to the executive law. What will happen to potential perpetrators who have for legitimate reasons become this – loss of work or disease. I may be one of them, I'm sick, and I'm in the final phase for a disability pension. Doctors have declared me permanently incompetent for any job stroke, Parkinson's disease. I went to the unemployment office three months ago because I had to close the crafts to make my health worse. I owe you a loan, and the question is, how am I gonna get it back? If I can't get him back, he'll lose the only real estate I have - an apartment that's mortgaged, and the principal loan is more than 50,000 kuna. I wish I could be able to work and not be isolated in society, but I'm not because of the disease. Could the solution be suicide or something? "It is because of this man's question that the Living Wall has sent another one of ours to this law, which states that it is essentially forbidden to execute the only real estate for the apartment even if the debtor has concluded a mortgage agreement on it and another item. The provisions of this Article shall also apply to natural persons carrying out their registered activity, meaning free professions, OPGs and craftsmen and others. So, if there's any chance that people who have mortgages are going to get into the process, it's up to us to know who turned down our amendment to protect them from the occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46192	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46193	That's what you read the letter today I also got, i.e. A message to dozens of people warning us what's wrong with us who've lost our jobs, so they're done, we're not guilty, interest, we're being threatened by an act. But for now in this existing law, we've done the maximum and you've given our amendments, we'll talk, we'll watch everything that's best of course when we see all the amendments because it can overlap with amendments and intentions, positive intentions, and I believe that today's your constructiveity and your struggle has created a living wall where I, too, have essentially created an activism in my field. You are in the Zagreb area and where you pointed out and when they were showing these people to deal with nonsense, that the populists are essentially this is now the product of this proposal amending the laws of the Most Independent Lists and you, all of us and all who have made the proposal. And together I believe that the grief of that man is if we save that man today we must all be proud so that he will never be any of us in Parliament again. We did a huge thing for a man. And I believe that these amendments to the law will help a lot of tens of thousands of people, a huge help that the grip around their necks that have made their system unfair, mainly the banking system can go through the political elites today all of us together help people in the faith. I am convinced that even in the new, if legislative changes are needed, and obviously they are necessary because we see the number of amendments and other legal acts that we will need to change, that we will really work here in Parliament in the interests of man, and that we will have a sharp debate, that we should have a sharp debate, that we should try to be for a man like this proposal of the Most Independent Lists where your amendments, where the amendments of others are, are now not here and where the amendments of the Government of the Republic, where the call of the President of the Republic is that we will jointly achieve this goal for the benefit of the individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46194	Thank you very much. The replica and Mr. Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46195	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bulj, you said that there is an agreement here on all the policy options relating to the adoption of the executive law I am deeply convinced that it will become an agreement also with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot escape responsibility because of everything that has happened, and especially what has happened over the years, not this government and government of the former government, through their institutions have not done enough to protect many people who have come under the burdens of the Executive Law. On the one hand, we recently passed the Public Procurement Act here. If you just remember how much public procurement went through the Republic of Croatia from local, state-level, where certain companies without employees were getting jobs, then at dumping prices, you were hired by cooperatives, most often craftsmen, small craftsmen, didn't pay them jobs, and then these craftsmen went into trouble, into debt, blocked and could not continue to do their job. On the other hand, I mentioned it here, and I tied it to the bankruptcy of this company that was leaving and a special defeat, which is a large number of hundreds of thousands are estimated and more people have worked in the past without getting paid. So they couldn't service those obligations. And then a paradox is set up, and why isn't the Executive Law good, why should it be changed? On the one hand, these workers who did not receive salaries or companies that went bankrupt, such as Gaia in Slatina, where the workers did not receive any severance, on the one hand the Executive Law could not help them, and on the other hand those whose debtors were very much helped, so they set themselves on fire in this slavery that we have been talking about all day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46196	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46197	Yes, unfortunately, this ruthless system and the legal rules passed in this House were unfair as in the case of public procurement. I was in Vrgorec at a company that works in the production of certain pipes. It's really one company that's renowned, has its patents. They competed through public procurement to get jobs in the construction of sewer systems, when building highways, they didn't get a job. They didn't get a job no matter what they met the terms, but they found color, this one to get a foreign company, and of course there's a number of people and they're losing their jobs, the man's being held up because he's good on the world market. So we didn't invest a gram of iron, put it on the highway, Zagreb-Split A1. And then it's... Split Ironworks, rather than importing iron and implanting iron into it as a finished product, came by ships from other countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the fact is that these people who are numerous, who have gotten into trouble, numerous twists, numerous OPGs. They're not in trouble just because they didn't have a good product, they didn't work, they lost their job. I mentioned just before workers, Dalmatian women, Cetin women and many other companies that have failed in your area, only because of the injustices that caused this law and, above all, the public procurement, which were not correct, fair, but were granted to them by certain lobbyes. And so it's evolved, so incompetence has developed, and the better you pay, and unfortunately it's happened that we've lost a number of jobs and not just a number of jobs, but we're losing the main factor, it's not just enough state, territory, no man, and 2/3 are almost empty. With this law we help... a special area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46198	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46199	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, here you have pointed out how nice it is to see this unity and agreement and I am really happy to hear the presentation of all the clubs and the support we have for our amendments and the bill, but also for the amendments given by other club representatives, but of course for the amendments given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What's important to emphasize. I don't know if all the MPs here in the assembly are aware. These amendments and the bill will unblock a large number of our citizens. We have a situation, that we have this proposal, that there won't be a possible implementation of the only real estate, if the principal of the loan is already paid to the creditor through all these loans. It's an amendment that will save one large number of our citizens. We have an amendment, or suggestion that if the account is dead, blocked, for more than a year, to suspend the execution, a new one can be launched, but no more of those old interest rates. Do you know how many people we're going to help that way? We have a situation that if the claims can't be charged within 10 years, that means they're non-chargeable. How many people are we going to unblock? And what I'm afraid of, here we now have one general agreement here. Everyone agreed on it. I'm afraid now of these legal and public record lobbys, which may now start calling MPs, that this consent of what we have, so that it won't be disturbed tomorrow. That's all I'm getting better at. Both the SDP Club and the HSS Club and the Live Wall Club and fellow Alexic and all the clubs, the HDZ Club, all supported it, the HNS Club, all supported it. And minorities of course. [[Intruder Radin: Minorine, you forgot minorities.]] I must have forgotten to mention it, I apologize. So they all supported this, and I'm just afraid of these lawyer and public record lobbys.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46200	Thank you, thank you very much. I interrupted you because I left you a little longer because I interrupted you. The answer to Mr. Bull's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46201	So I'm going to start a colleague of the Grmoy, indeed, today it's nice to watch the consent and surely they have their speakers everywhere and they're going to find someone to talk about it, but it's democracy. But indeed, most, people in the Republic of Croatia, experts, from the highest institutions, government, presidents, all parties, all clubs of people and those who are in this case and who are not, but the fact is that it has been shown that the opposition Party's proposal is also a bridge of independent lists, together with amendments of other opposition parties, with amendments from the Government, that better solutions can be made together, i.e. Much better solutions than this predatory law, which led to this situation that today we have a drain of young people, whole families, not as it was in the 1960s a fellow Grumo is unimaginable to say at all, before men went into the world to work, but they left their families here. And now the whole family is gone and the ends are extinct. And really this is what the real estate you said... 50, if the entire principal comes back, and through interest, there's no execution. There's no dissection. It's amazing, it's the most positive thing that's happened is the bank has taken its own, banks are selling their debts now to law offices, debt collection offices where people are going to push. And surely there should be work on other laws, and other laws that are the tribune solve other problems and social problems and criteria. But at this point, it's going to help a huge number of people, and because of the dead account... the days are going to write off the interest where people can catch... because it's about 330,000 people and 90% of them are blocked. So this is a huge step for a man, for a man and family of individuals against those who created a system, which is unfair to that... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46202	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Josip Salapic asked for a word on behalf of the promoter has five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46203	Thank you very much, Vice President. It won't be five minutes, it'll be short. I just have to do it one more time so there's no misunderstanding. So now we've got on the table of the bridge amendment submitted with the date of 13 July 2017, so I repeat, the government has supported the proposal of the bridge club of independent lists in such a way that the amendments that are... the meetings of the government are in line with you as the legislator of the law. The amendments that you have made today and which on several pages are explained by you as a proposing will be only subject to consideration, and you as a proposing can choose whether it will be today until tomorrow until the vote or will do otherwise, given that what is proposed today is not the subject of discussions and agreeing to meetings that we held on several occasions before today's debate begins, so let's be clear. As Government, we welcome the agreement of all parties and clubs here, but I also note the things you have now submitted that are partly the fruit of today's debate of your proposals need to be discussed further.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46204	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46205	Honorable representative of the Justice Department. I'll say one thing, we've asked to enforce the ban and the property that's mortgaged. Our solution is to say in some way exclusively, we will not give up on him. However, bridge colleagues have found a truly compromise solution, which is that if the principal has already been returned that in that case one will not be deposed even if it is a mortgage because I have to tell you that there have been cases of families who have returned the principal twice, but the interest race has failed to catch up and they eventually had to lose their home. And I call you as a responsible person that, I understand that the government cannot accept our solution, but here are fellow bridge colleagues who have given you a solution that is indeed to say correctly and you have until tomorrow, study, look, I believe there should be no problem with the Bridge proposal. I understand that you reject our amendment, but if you reject the Bridge amendment you will actually be involved in a crime committed against our people, which is made by the interest system because the interest system is the source of evil in the world, this interest system destroys and enslaves the whole world, and it is the bridge's amendment that is the blow to that system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46206	Thank you, too. Another replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46207	Here I will go through the replica also on behalf of the promoter and today... to discuss these announced amendments that we have already explained if there is one compromise that will not go on the protection of the individual is going to restore all its obligations, where the dead accounts will unblock, where the interest they owe him and put him under this current law into debt slavery for life. This way, however, we will allow our people to breathe and sit, of course, and we will remain in front of these proposals, of course, with the conversation as we have so far, and we must know that the whole procedure has yet passed, so that there has been first reading, that there has been a second reading, that we have given amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure how to give. And I don't see any reason why we shouldn't tell people tomorrow, so even if the last day was here, we did, and we tried. We've done, we haven't tried, we've corrected huge injustices against your Slavonia General Glavas Slavonia, my Dalmatian Zagora, the Cetina region, and we've made it possible for these people to stay here. We have deblocked their accounts 330 thousand, there is a clear president of the Republic, there is a clear demographic and the whole team there is a clear and Croatian government that needs to go after and to executives and if the triba and the new Executive Law. But these amendments to the law are essentially the last straw of salvation, and the sooner we bring it in, the better, together all of us. This is where the message must come from, Mr. Assembly MPs, your honor secretary, you have the right to state your position on what it is, but I believe in you MPs that you will not let 330 thousand times as many members of their families, the O.P.G., the economies that we will not let them down and that we will not let them move out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46208	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Time's up. The next speaker is Mr. Hajdukovic, but I don't see him. So Mr. Grmoy, there's no Mr. Hajdukovic, you asked for a word on behalf of the promoter, so you're on your way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46209	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we look forward to this agreement in the Croatian Parliament, especially us as legislators of this law. What is particularly good is that many clubs have sent their amendments, which shows that this is an important topic, that we have recognised the importance of this topic for Croatian citizens and that we have accepted most of these amendments. We have also addressed some of our amendments and is pleased that all clubs have declared that they will support this bill. What I said earlier in the debate and why I was now looking again on behalf of the promoter to say a few words is that we may not know how many people we are going to unblock with this legal proposal. We have a situation where people have been blocked for years, almost for life, that processes are being conducted, or executions that only lawyers benefit from. And what may be worrying is that now these legal and public record lobbys will start contacting MPs here in this assembly and they'll start rebelling against such a bill and these amendments. I hope that won't be the case, I hope those MPs who are in conflict of interest, too, will be excluded, especially here I think of lawyers who benefit from such an executive law. We must look at the interest of Croatian citizens, not the particular interests of a particular profession. So we can't let that happen here in this High House, citizens can't be blocked for life. And these suggestions that go in the direction that if a year and more of an account is blocked to unblock it and then that it can be restarted but no interest. And of course, if in 10 years a particular claim can't be charged that it means it's non-refundable and not that we keep people in debt for life. It is nice to see this agreement in the Croatian Parliament, but I call on you to resist attempts by lawyers and public note lobbyes who may have just recognized what is behind this bill that will help our citizens in many ways. Let's keep this unity, this agreement we've had since the early morning, where the government has joined with its amendments that we've all accepted, where other club representatives have joined. And let us not allow lobbys living on the coat of arms of Croatian citizens, who draw money from the torment of Croatian citizens and Croatian people to win again. The victory must be tomorrow at the vote, the victory of Croatian citizens to whom we will finally remove that hand from the suffocation that has been suffocating them for years. We must stop this executive mafia and say no, we must unblock our citizens in order to start the Croatian economy. I invite you all to maintain this unity and resist any attempts by law and public record lobbys. It's very important, there will be attempts, there will be calls. We will see until the end of this debate whether these lawyers of law and public record lobbys will come forward or still prevail over the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46210	Thank you too, Mr. Grmoya. Mr. Bull gave you a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46211	Well, let's face it, let's face it, maybe not so far, until now there's been a real agreement between all the colleagues of Parliament's representatives, and there's definitely going to be a reaction of those who created their empires to the torture of these people, and unfortunately because of these empires today, empires, individuals, interest groups today, we have a problem moving people. So we can talk when you say about lawyers' lobbys, public records lobbys, we can take bank lobbys, too, that draw huge money, and they certainly don't care about protecting 300 thousand people. The largest number of these people today are on their way to another, heading outside the Republic of Croatia. And I expect that if there are any attempts, there will be no, but I don't think there will be any attempts. We are aware that these amendments have certainly spread a little bit of that system but we are aware that these lobbies will also try to affect the course of this debate now, but it is, it is no problem if the representatives are firm tomorrow and proud and hopefully together we will all, as the Government, the President of the Republic, we from the opposition, from the ruling ones remain unique and for the first time come among our people and tell, people we have done as much as we could, as individuals, as Parliamentarians, on behalf of you and not on behalf of lawyers and other lobbyes, banking and public records. That's why I really hope we'll be proud tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46212	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46213	Comrade Bulj, you know what my colleague Pernar told me now who came to me, says you're not even aware, this amendment of yours where the only real estate can't be completed in case the principal of the loan is returned that it's a blow to this unfair interest system. I said that I am aware of that, I am convinced that the representatives here in the Croatian Parliament are also aware, and it is particularly important that these amendments where we are talking about the fact that people cannot be kept blocked for life. It destroys the entire system, people go to Ireland and other countries because their accounts are blocked, they can only work here on black. These are amendments and proposals that can trigger the Croatian economy. And what I'm only afraid of, even though we had one general agreement here in the Croatian Parliament, I'm afraid of legal and public note lobbys. I'm afraid that, I'm afraid, I'm afraid that there will be no attempt to make these changes that are very important to the halt, I believe in the social democracy of the SDP, I believe in the people of the HDZ, I believe it means that in the democracy of the HDZ also, I believe in the social justice and social sensitivity of all of our parliamentary representatives sitting here and I believe that particular interests will not overcome the public interest, the interest of our citizens, and tomorrow I expect that we all unanimously support this legislative proposal and, of course, the minorities, who have also supported this because it is very important that we all be together in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46214	Thank you very much. We continue with individual debates, actually we begin now, because the first is not, Mr. Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46215	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although I was just told that as someone who was before entering the Croatian Parliament I was a lawyer, I should not be able to speak now, yet I think that the trust I received from the citizens not only allows me to do so but also obliges me at a speech in the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and especially colleagues from MOST, each of us has a head and is authorized to think differently from you, however shocked you from time to time. Authorized and disagreed with you, and now I will not agree with you in the part where you spoke of consensus. Yes, that consensus was reached. And everything went in the direction that this law would be passed tomorrow, and then what happened? You've figured it out. And the moment you realized after nine months, since the start of the debate on this law, you have submitted amendments that change it significantly. At two points. For example, in Article 15 and Article 21, the problem is that in Article 15, you are contradictory of what you state in Article 12 of this Law. a regarding the possibility of charging the performance on the sole real estate. Now, as contradictory as what you've done, I'm going to show you in one situation that happened yesterday. Yesterday you probably noticed it, a verdict was made for at least three indictees, in an affair called Remorker. In the way you've predicted here in these two amendments, for example, if what the gentlemen of Remorker, Premilovac, soapunar and others are not charged within 10 years of a final verdict, they will never be charged. So you've constraint the state that in the event of a crime, you can't spend more than 10 years trying to collect your claim, and in the case of these three gentlemen, it's worth 20 million kuna. We all know here that their assets that are blocked won't be enough to collect within 10 years the claim that the state has, but for you after 10 years can't, why? Because you don't constantly distinguish certain important things. And this is that debts and executive procedures do not come only from consumer relations. Debts, i.e. executive procedures, originate from a whole series of other relationships that arise among citizens. For example, I do you harm, any damage, no matter. It's also possible that I can deliberately hit someone with intensity. And break his nose. You can't protect me the same way you're gonna protect the person who came into your situation because she took the loan and couldn't pay for losing her job. You can't, and you can't, you have no right to. And by this law, you protect everything in the same way. You can't protect the person who's been deposed from the only real estate, who's got 250 squares, took a loan at 10, 15 thousand kunas a month and didn't return it, and now we're moving him out of that castle like that person who's moving out of a 30, 40, 50 squares that she barely paid off with a 5 thousand kuna salary. You can't and you can't. And you're doing it with this law. But that's not all. With this law, you insist on protecting only those who are evicted from real estate because of the collection of money claims. And you don't protect those who, for example, come from their properties because they've been leased, protect themselves for surrender in possession. Just to collect or execute a non-money claim. The person who took up the loan and could not pay off the apartment, which is why it is delegated, will receive state protection under Article 131a) of the law. The one who didn't get into the credit arrangement, but said I couldn't go into the loan, took an apartment in the lease. Well, he can't pay for it anymore either, so he's forced to disembark, so he won't be protected by this bill. And that's the same remark I gave you in my first reading and that hasn't been fixed in the last nine months. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and especially you dear colleagues and colleagues from MOST, because I'm telling you that you're not writing things well, not because until yesterday I was a lawyer, actually maybe, because by yesterday I was a lawyer and I've been living with situations where the party that collects my claim is damaged, and not the one who owes, I have a slightly different view of this reality. I have a different view when, for example, I represent a person who has suffered domestic violence, and for 10 years, she cannot charge the damage she suffered because of this violence. You're making it impossible for her to ever charge for it, and even what you wrote, you're not able to write it right. Because what do you say? You're saying the limitation of the payment of the cash demand by the executive correction occurs 10 years from the day of its power of attorney. Do you know which executives are becoming law-abiding? Judgments. For example, criminal convictions like she did yesterday in the case of Premilovec. And do you know which executive documents never become powerful but potentially final at the moment of their maturity? Public records and soloized private documents that we verify when we make a loan agreement with the bank. So, with this amendment you don't know how to write, you don't know how to protect those banks, and you don't protect whoever it is, for example, like I did before. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, my debate until the moment these amendments were received was supposed to be completely different, it was supposed to be affirmative. Of course, I planned to point out certain shortcomings such as those in Article 131a. But what you've done right now makes me feel like it's really making me realize that you want us not to pass this law tomorrow so that we can spend the whole summer yelling that you've been fighting against a lawyer's, a banker's, a public record, a lobby like that. But the truth is quite the opposite. I'm not going to tell you that as a party you lie even though there are arguments for it today, but I'll tell you something else. Pull these two amendments, let's stay on what the government has suggested. Eventually accept another amendment that has been proposed. I'm going to suggest one that you accept, and that's the SDP amendment relating to the amount of salary that's excluded from this. Because according to your proposal, there will be no exception to salary. The salary will only be excluded if less than 2/3 of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. So, you'll protect about 45% of the people in the Republic of Croatia who get paid, about 55% will not. So accept that amendment, give up this amendment that you have submitted and make a real contribution to us adopting this law tomorrow by consensus. Because as much as this proposal doesn't go in the direction you're talking about, and your proposal doesn't solve the problem blocked, your proposal only solves the problem of the people who are in the real estates that are on top. Let's at least adopt that part, let's at least adopt that part. And once again I will tell you that your intention was indeed serious then what you handed over today at 15.45 would be handed over at least before the meeting of the Justice Committee, to discuss with colleagues and colleagues who know our work what the content is and what it means for the economy in the Republic of Croatia. Because I'll tell you one more thing. Ask yourself which bank will give credit to anyone in the Republic of Croatia for the purchase of the first real estate, the most sensitive one, the one most difficult to acquire if they can't collect afterwards. No one will. And you know what that means? This means that no one in the Republic of Croatia will be able to solve their first apartment anymore, because with all due respect, I don't know a lot of people who could buy their first apartment in cash without credit, and those who have these laws don't care at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46216	Thank you. We had three replicas, but Mr. Grmoya gave up the replica, because he's going to perform as a proposer. So the replicas go first, and then Mr. Grmoya you'll get the word. So the first replica of Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46217	Dear colleague Grbin, you've made it very clear that you're under suspicion of a consensus. Namely, the turning point you were talking about in psychology is called an increase in aspiration. When you become aware that you will accomplish something and then suddenly add an even greater demand, you strengthen the request. Yeah? So with long negotiating experience, I would recommend that one who really wants to move a stone from a dead spot goes step by step. If he has agreed on a consensus for the first step, let him stand in that position and solve one problem, and let him immediately start writing a law that will make something else, i.e. new changes and supplement where he will regulate the other matter. I also agree with you that the issue of personal responsibilities is very important for debt-religious relations, which are in most cases based on subsequent executive procedures, so I have to tell you that 330,000 citizens are about 9% of all citizens with voting rights and so much is under way. The pensioner is 40,000, which means about 3 and a half percent, which means that they have lower incomes on one side, but also that they have more responsibility for what they have, or that, to discharge the people's saying, cover up as much as your cover is debt and in some way demonstrate personal responsibility. However, there is one structure, which is the structure of the defender, which is unfortunately with 11% in executive procedures which again says something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46218	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Silvano, my grandmother, no matter how small her pension was, the first thing she did was always pay the director's bill, and that was it, all of it. Tek If you paid for it, all the grandmothers and that explains where your stats came from. [[Intruder Radin: All grandmothers still today.]] But, of course, we can't simulate such an important problem as the question of execution. However, it is necessary to say something which is a fact, which is that the exercise, implementation, or forced payment of claims, as such is not a cause, but a consequence of the general state of society. So we're not poor because we have a law of law. But the executive law must be applied, because some things in our society are not right. Col. Milenić gave an example today, which is a question of the electricity bill, i.e. the heating bill. Instead of talking today about how to suspend the executive procedures, for those of our built weaker property status who cannot afford to pay for electricity, or, by paying for heating, we should reverse the story and create a system that will enable them to pay for it. If there is no other way to increase their income, then in a way, that the state co-finances the costs of heating and electricity costs, such as the elemental living needs, i.e. the cost of communals. And when we start thinking that way, when we start turning the story around, in a way that prevents a person from paying off his obligations, only then will we really start to solve the problem blocked, because this, as well as many other things in Croatia, is just a fire measure and a little bit more than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46220	Thank you very much. That was the answer to the replica, Mr. Klaric now, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46221	My fellow coat of arms, I shouldn't say much except that in part that I fully agree with your debate. We've all been aware here all morning, listening to the same story. On the consensus, on the consensus reached, on how both the HDZ Club and the SDP Club and the Most and the HNS, and all of us here advocates support this, we take care of the citizens, so that in 15.45 all of the debate we listened to most by the Most, it turns into some kind of swan song. So someone has me as a parliamentary representative, all of you here as parliamentary representatives at 15.45 after the day of negotiation, after the day of preparation, after everything we've discussed, brought an act before us with a new amendment that we should vote on tomorrow. I don't think that's fair or right, and it only leads to one. Obviously, it leads once, that tomorrow, some third reading will be proposed or already which, or that such a law with such an amendment, will not be voted upon. And that we're going to have all summer, a story, a populist one, that's going to bang on all those MPs, who didn't support something like this because it's been brought in as it's been proposed, now that it's been postponed. And I don't think it's fair or fair, we've been listening to the same story all day, in 15.45 Mr. Salapic is here, let someone explain to us how someone can possibly manifest themselves like this... The amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you were like the profession and the lawyer that you used to be, you could interpret it from that professional side. And we should raise our hands on him tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46222	Thank you very much, Mr. Grbin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, you can see that in the House it is a practice that amendments to other persons are not proposed, especially in situations where the Government is proposing, submitted during the debate. This time, related to this law, because of its importance, the SDP Representatives' Club submitted its amendments on Tuesday. Do you know why? In the meantime, to try to see if there are any disagreements around them or the possibility of agreeing with the legislator of this bill, so that we can possibly correct something, change something. Unfortunately, I still don't know what is the final position of the legislator of the law on these amendments. However, in one part, when we ignore the amount involved, I see that the Proposer, the Most Independent Lists Club, does not accept the amendments of the SDP's Club of Representatives to the part in which we asked, for example, that the Court, in any case, in any situation where a real estate execution is sought, can assess whether it is appropriate and fair to implement the real estate implementation. So that was one of our proposals. So, it doesn't exactly stand here, in this proposal that we've just received. So we're talking consensus, we're talking about community, but then, if that community should be realized, then it's gone. So, I'm gonna take another chance, so from this place, I'm gonna call my esteemed bridge colleagues, let's do what we talked about, pull these two amendments, and stop tomorrow from happening, don't God forbid we pass the law. So our goal must be to do a job, not to look for political points, because someone refused from this or that reason to get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46224	Thank you very much. I would ask you, first of all, that Mr. Grmoya would have to speak, now, so let him go free so he can express his opinion. Here you are, on behalf of the Proposer, five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46225	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here's what I recognized was going to happen. So it's not true what counterpart Klaric said, that we have now come with this amendment. Nor is it true what my colleague Grbin said, that even now the amendment has come. As of this morning, this has been discussed, so, first when Miro Simic spoke on behalf of the promoter, what he intends to do has been presented. And no one, up to 4,40, has made any remarks about it. And here comes a lawyer, who's been running disputes for 10 and 15 years and standing up against what's going on in favor of our citizens. I've narrowed it down. Which is difficult for dear colleagues to have an absolute limitation period of time and cannot be blocked for life. It's a trauma where over 300 thousand of our citizens have been affected, these people have children, have families and all those children, and all these families are exposed to the burdens of these debts. This means that more than a million people in the Republic of Croatia are exposed to this spiral of evil that we were talking about. What's the big deal? So the limitation period of ten years prescribed by the Law on Mandatory Relations is long enough for the enforcer to charge his claim if the demand is remunerated. The necessity of introducing such a provision lies in the fact that the search that has been completed for ten years has not been charged that it is clearly inaccessible. Also, if the executive has too late taken action to collect his demand, the law should not provide him with additional protection because, due to the principle of proportionality, it is too much of an interest to provide protection for the perpetrators and to prevent the long-term blockade of the perpetrators' assets. What's with the controversially dear colleagues and colleagues? There's no fraud. Here comes my colleague Babic ten minutes ago with the HDZ amendment and brought it out to me and my colleague Simic, we say it's a good thing it should support. And also a colleague of the coat of arms with the SDP amendment. There's no fraud, so I've been saying this all morning, I've repeated this about an absolute limitation period a hundred times in the Croatian Parliament. What kind of fraud are you talking about? Well, if she had been double-crossed, then we'd be silent by now, so we'd be giving this amendment. If we're going to benefit Hanžekovic, if we're going to benefit the law offices and public records, then you're not going to support this. And I expected you to be the people's representatives. Here is a colleague, Babic, who can confirm whether he came with the HDZ amendment now, and whether it was me and fellow Simic that we agreed on it and that we accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46226	He can't confirm from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46227	They'll confirm the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46228	No, he can't confirm now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46229	They'll confirm with a replica. So let's not fall for this. If that's really such a problem, we'll think about it, but I think we'll unblock a large number of our citizens by this provision. People, our young people are going to Ireland and other countries, their accounts are blocked, they can't get a job, but they have to work on black because their accounts are blocked. Believe that there is no hidden intention, there is an intention to help people. We have accepted up to one amendment to the Government and these amendments have improved the law and thank the Government because there are professional services that have improved the law, professional services, but they have also worked on this bill and you know it well, where meetings were, where we met and where it was working on the law. There's no hidden intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46230	Thank you very much. Here we've got six with Mr. Bull's Replica. The first replica, Mr. Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46231	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear comrade Grmoya, I can finally agree with you and your intensity and I think we've been talking all morning and we've been talking all day and we're full of mouths about what we want to do with this. However, I also mentioned during several exhibitions and the last one in front of the club that I had mentioned about these amendments with which I have literally already begun to throw myself around during the day, I can hardly say anything until I see what is on the paper,... the paper that means it. We have now received one piece and indeed this more problematic part may be related to the payment, which in Article 80.b, paragraph 4, will ultimately mean the possibility of obtaining other loans. That's what I said and in Mr. Pernar's replica, we need to think about long-distance. I mentioned the replica right away to the initial presentation of the proposal of this law, which my colleague Šimić had in the morning, why he did not touch Article 172, which speaks of the exemption of the exercise and related to regressions, goddesses and other untaxable receipts. He said you had a first reading you could do it, okay. I wasn't there when it was clear, but it doesn't excuse me or specifically me to, but maybe the party didn't and said you had time to correct it. This is now becoming literally a little bidding that will make more improvements for our citizens and that's not bad, but we have to watch what we're doing. We can't come in a hurry so we don't do any more damage. That is all I ask to consider literally being responsible and to see what are the far-reaching consequences. It wasn't the committees that discussed it, it wasn't the counselling that was conducted, and now it's the basic bill, and I'm asking everyone to come and do it... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46232	Thank you very much. Mr. Thunderbolt, I presume. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46233	Well, my dear colleague, I absolutely agree, and if you have any suggestions and an amendment, we are prepared to consider it, just as we are to the colleagues of the SDP here who have now also come as some amendments have said that we will consider everything. So it's no problem, but there's no hidden intention or transparency. If in the first exhibition when it started this morning there were several thin ones and immediately afterwards was Miro Šimic on behalf of the promoter and all this now allegedly controversial he spoke of it. Let's not lie and cheat, let's say the truth has nothing hidden, nor any hidden intentions. But there's got to be some interest in those who run the executive proceedings after 10, 15 years. Well, don't tell me if in 10 years through real estate and through other things you can't charge for the search, so you won't even charge for it. These people will leave Croatia. It is that we here with these amendments, this debt slavery that our citizens are in, which the President of the Republic spoke of, and be sure what the President of the Republic sent in an open letter to the Prime Minister is much more radical than we propose here. So when we give the bill then they say it's a camel and then when we go a little bit more help to our citizens and then come on, don't overcharge them, how will those who have demand for them be charged. So do we want to help them or do we not want to help them? Let's make a deal here, people. So let's not fool ourselves. The president asked for a moratorium, a moratorium on top and a judge, Kolakusic, whom the media are raising. So these were much more radical demands. And now that we find something that's rational and what's really going to help people now that we have, we have no hidden intentions, we want to pass the law. And neither is this our only credit, this is the credit of all the MPs who gave the amendments. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46234	Mr. Grmoya, you'll have five more lines to make up for. The second is a gentleman, the second replica has Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46235	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoy, if the rules of the act had been passed in this House, we wouldn't have lost hours of debate today about something that shouldn't be at all. So you're the promoter on your proposal the government must give its opinion. And you have agreed to this proposal with the government, the government has given its amendments and there has been a final proposal for a second reading. And by analogy, you, if you decided what you agreed to change, you should have repeated the procedure. So this morning, you should have heard from your colleagues from the Ministry of Justice, sent them the amendments and asked for their statement on this because the Government had made these amendments to the Rules of Procedure in the previous meeting, must be made manifest at the session on amendments. And so if you've done that, I don't want to get into the measure of things, we can discuss it, but I'll repeat what I said by noon. So this is a law that is primarily social but must offer legal certainty and that is something that is most difficult to do. You yourself said that part of this law was done by professional services. And why didn't you give that amendment to the government at the professional services and agree to that during the day? And three or four hours ago when my colleague Mrak-Taritash was arguing, we told you to meet with the people of the Justice Department and agree to that. And I don't think this kind of discussion just leads anywhere. If we go with something in the morning and we're very close to the finish line and now we're at the end like... But why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just for stubbornness. So you should have had the government's opinion on these amendments. And that's why it's supposed to be done and I say we've spent a lot of time, I think it's totally lame because you don't want to accept the law-making technique in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46236	Thank you, Mr. Shuker. If I'm allowed only, abuse the moment, but at the moment when we all agreed that the government could give an amendment to its proposal that at the same moment without voting becomes the body of the law we were wrong because it should have been disabled long ago. ... Actually, well, I take it back. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Mr. Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46237	The government can during the debate, but when the debate is over, if the government proposes amendments then we are voting on whether we will discuss these amendments and then chairing that amendment, whether there are discussions,... and then such amendments become part of the text. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if the government proposes an amendment at the time of the debate, then it's an integral part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46238	Okay. We'll talk about it later, I won't talk about it from here. Here you go, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46239	Nothing, Your Honor, you're absolutely right, so we did the same thing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Amendments were sent during the debate, and that is what is not disputed. So we showed, we showed, and you can't deny maximum inclusiveness. Every amendment that went for the benefit of the citizens, I mentioned here to my colleague Babic, we gladly accepted. What we could do with the ministry was agreeable and then after that bill was publicly available to everyone. That's what the consensus was all about. And the bill says there's a professional public, there's a general public, there's a president, and everybody says it's good, but it's not enough. It's not enough. And in this spirit and desire of the president, the professional public and the Croatian public, we make proposals that go in favour of the citizens and then you say that is not agreed or a colleague of the Grbin who is a lawyer says that is too much, I will not be able to conduct the executive proceedings for 15, 20 years. Everyone's proposal that went in favour of Croatian citizens and that contributed to the quality of this law we accepted and showed absolute inclusiveness. What will be brought to the Croatian Parliament tomorrow is not only our credit, and that should be said honestly, it is also the merits of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other clubs of representatives and the HDZ club and colleagues of Babic and the Live Wall Club and colleagues of Aleksic and colleagues of Lovrinović and colleagues from the SDP. That's the facts. Let's not kid ourselves, tomorrow the Croatian citizens will be watching us. And I invite the President of the Republic, I call on her from this place to watch tomorrow's vote in the Croatian Parliament, the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46240	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, next replica. Pernar next replica, please, Pernar, that you Pernar, yes, the only one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46241	I would like to say that my colleague Grumoja made an interesting remark, he said if someone in the 10 years failed to collect it clearly that this person either avoids payment or does not have a place to charge from. If she avoids payment she will be avoided until the day of judgment and if there is no charge, she will not be charged only if she gets eventually on the lottery and that is one on 13 million chances. So what Nikola Grumoja is really saying to you and what MOST is proposing is that certain deadlines be introduced so that this endless debt buildup can be stopped, because you can stop talking, I apologize. And why does it matter? The important thing is, you've solved the problem of blocked legal entities in a way that you've sent these companies into liquidation. However, you cannot liquidate individuals. And if there are no limitation deadlines, it will come to the fact that due to the interest rate of the debt of citizens who are 40 billion kuna today, it will be in 5, 10 years 80, 100, 200, so if the debtors can live long, they will have a debt of 100 million kuna, so where will it end? What you're going to have is that if you refuse this MOST proposal, you're going to have billions of kunas of natural persons who are actually going to be de facto uncharging and who are just going to actually burden society. So I urge you to make a consensus, because this law is in the interest of all of us. This isn't a law that suits a tight group of people. This is a law that will help everyone literally. And the introduction of a reasonable 10-year-old deadline is, in my opinion, absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46242	Thank you, thank you, sir. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Hrelja. You have to tell us about what?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46243	I've picked up the plate because of this noise, but I'm withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure because Mr. Pernar has calmed down and calmed down the tone. [[Intruder Radin: But you did not specify...]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46244	It's not in the Rules of Procedure, then you don't, and you've lifted a record against Mr. Pernar to keep his mouth shut because otherwise it's not in the Rules of Procedure, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, is it? Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar, next, and excuse me, pardon me. The answer to Mr. Grmoy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46245	Comrade Pernar, you're absolutely right. I'm also giving up the MOST club, any credit for this bill. Any credit. This is the law of all of us and of all citizens and I call once again, so also the President of the Republic who sent an open letter to the Prime Minister to watch tomorrow's vote on this bill because what we propose is much easier than what she asked for. And believe me, this will help many. Our colleague Hrelj, we were together at the press with his colleague Alexic, where he proposed two laws that would benefit Croatian citizens and help Croatian citizens, such an executive law will help many. Let's not miss the chance to help them, please. Please, let's not miss the chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46246	Thank you very much. The next line has Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46247	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable colleague of the bush, therefore, first of all, the Parliament is not an expert body, the Parliament is a political body. And I warned you today, this morning and Secretary of State Mr. Salapic, now... My colleague Grbin said something about looking for a real problem in law when we talk about expertise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you ask an average citizen now on the street to get out, we can bet on that, which is the most important problem of this society, everyone will tell you the problem is the judiciary. We have a judiciary that doesn't work. Everyone else in the Republic of Croatia likes to call, I still don't think I know if he used it first, I remember former President Stjepan Mesic, when he said some "institutions do their job". Everyone tells you that, all those accused of the most serious crimes, the crimes say "let the institutions just do their job". But now the question is raised, and how long do the institutions do the job? If 10 years isn't enough to make something, the judiciary does something, then I don't know, let's suggest how many years it takes? 15 years, 20 years? I don't see what the problem is. And if the government said they'd have a new bill soon, they wouldn't be bringing it in in 10 years. I don't see at all what's going on in this part right now if you're saying that someone has solved my problem for 10 years, what did my colleague Pernar say, how would he solve it? If he has something to pay for, then the judiciary has to do it, if there's nothing to pay for, it'll never be charged. Once again, we as a Parliament, MPs, must make a political decision and therefore take responsibility, it does not go differently. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'd like to ask you a little more quietly.]] Any excuse is actually superfluous then.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46248	Thank you very much, Mr. Sagar. Mr. Hrelja has again sought a breach of the Rules of Procedure, probably after the same... You have to say the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46249	Mr. Vice President, you can be calm. I'll quote Rule 238 reprimanding MPs. Because Mr. Sagar said that the Parliament, and we are members here elected to the Croatian Parliament that we are not an expert body. [[Intruder Radin: Always the same.]] This is the Supreme Legislative Body of the Republic of Croatia and don't let God let the citizens live with the idea that we are unprofessional. If someone is unprofessional, please ask for advisors, to be trained further in any way, I consider myself professional in at least one or two areas. I'm not a representative of general practice, but I'm sorry, this is an insult to all MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46250	Thank you very much. I don't know what to say. We're professional and unprofessional at the same time. Answer from Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46251	Dear colleague Sagar, everything was fine until about four o'clock. And nothing has changed. We've been talking about the same things since this morning. And as I said, you said well, there's no reason to apologize, this is a political decision, if we're going to stop a youth drain from Croatia, if we're going to help our people, and maybe even some will find themselves damaged. But here we need to see what's public interest, which is the interest of the majority. Peja Grbin may feel damaged, but here I am talking about the interest of the majority and this is a political decision. If we have a request from the public, if we have a request from the professional public, if we have the judges of the Trade Court, if we have a round table and an open letter to the Prime Minister, what are we talking about? This is a topic and this is a more important question than anything we have discussed in this House in the last few days, and it is a political decision. Will the prime minister listen to demographics who also talk about this problem or won't? Are we going to listen here to Professors Shretz and Akrap or aren't we going to listen to them? It's a question addressed to each of us. And each of us will give an answer tomorrow, and I call on the Croatian public except for the Croatian president to watch the vote and to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46252	Thank you very much. Mr. Babic has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46253	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You called me Mr. Grmoi several times to tell me if this is true regarding this amendment, which we have addressed even though this amendment has already been sent to you as a proposing by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. The truth is, half an hour ago, we talked about it out of respect as your promoter so that we could refer this amendment, and I took advantage of that right under Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament when they can do so by the very end of this debate. That's what I said for the truth, really for the truth. But the truth today after Mr. Maric's disintegrated for almost 7 months on your part doesn't live in your ranks anymore, and I'm very sorry about that. And what happened to fellow Maric, our colleague here, is not good, and that is an injustice as far as MOST and Mr. Dobrovic himself are concerned, an injustice crying out into the sky.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46254	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoy's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46255	Dear colleague Babic, thank you for confirming what I was saying. And as far as I'm concerned, you've done everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that's absolutely fine, and we've accepted that amendment of yours, and we think it's a good thing. As far as Minister Maric is concerned, the only man who died in this whole story is Slaven Dobrovic. I said that Slaven Dobrovic may have made the most collective move towards his former counterpart, because no one is talking about the scale of the matter anymore, that the chairman of the Supervisory Board was Zdravko Maric, that he approved that point, that he was even sitting there at the session during the debate. So he didn't say anything. The loan was brought in, and we all know he was familiar with the exposure of Ledo and Jamnica and Slaven Dobrović, so he said he was discussing it. And it turns out he wasn't arguing. And he rehabilitated Minister Maric. And now no one will discuss the metrics anymore, but whether Maric was discussing or not on the Supervisory Board. And that's the biggest problem for Slaven Dobrovic, and believe me, it's one of the most honorable people I've ever met in politics. And I told him I don't know if you'd like to apologize right away. He says I have to apologize for myself because it's true. And he left and immediately apologized.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46256	Yeah, but I'd like to warn you that we're talking about another topic right now. Okay. Mr. Bull, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46257	Comrade Grmoy, you're trying to turn the subject and you've located the problem correctly, that people who, when in the referendum was the definition of marriage, say on behalf of the board that citizens in the referendum can't change the constitution that is precedent. However, I do believe in parliamentary representatives, because we have been talking all morning about our citizens' problems, the request and president of the Republic and demographics who for years and the Croatian Government who participated in these problems, who propose more extreme legal changes to this law, even a new law, and in an emergency procedure because we simply die out 2/3 of Croatia. I'd just tell who bothers here to get rid of it urgently, to have people who have dead accounts for a year, to unblock their accounts, to take off their interest. Well, nobody loses here! Nobody loses here, because you'll never get your debts paid. Never! And we're going to give people the chance to bring it back to life. The amendment was given by a colleague named Babic. Comrade Shuker, if this had been solved before, he would have said that before dealing with these problems, they would not have talked about this today. Because of the citizens, because of the citizens of your colleagues, can you two, hello, fellow Shucker? I'm giving my colleagues a replica. [[/Intruder Shucker: Excuse me.]] In the end, I would only say that you guessed at the very beginning that about four hours the offensives of those powerful men who actually managed this system started. Unfortunately, I believe this amendment will not disrupt a unanimous vote, a unanimous amendment to this law that goes hand in hand only to citizens and families. Citizens 330,000 citizens times four members, that's a huge number.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46258	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Thank you, thank you. You were exhausting, as clear as ever. Mr. Grmoya's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46259	Dear Vice President, I'm looking at a title here and it's kind of warm around my heart. The moment that all parties in the Assembly agreed on the same topic was the new law supported by both HDZ and SDP and MOST and Glass and Live Wall and the title is "Let's do everything to adopt tomorrow". ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Since this morning, so we're talking about this amendment, there's been a debate here since this morning. We weren't hiding anything. Don't do it, because it's not true. So... Let go, don't do Miro, please... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And don't Miro, calm down, Miro, calm down, please, calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So this one we had one agreement and it's a shame to spoil it in any way. [[Let's not beg from the bench, please continue Mr. Grmoy.]] What I was about to say, all these proposals and amendments that we, which we accepted by the opposition, are going to benefit the citizens, and nothing will do any harm. If a fellow Shuker can't be charged in 10 years, then it's obvious that this debt is impossible to charge... It's not a dispute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[Intruder Radin: Please continue Mr. Grumo, continue, continue, please continue.]] If that's not disputed, that's what Mr. coat of arms put out as a key problem. If it's not a dispute, I don't know where the problem is, but we can sit down, we can sit down and see where that problem is, for you as HDZ. What we had all morning, we had one agreement, the acceptance of all amendments to the government, the acceptance, here's my colleague Babic confirmed that he came to us earlier with an amendment that we accepted. So the one he wasn't talking about during the debate, we've been talking about this all morning, he wasn't even talking about it during the debate, but he came out, and here he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46260	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Salapic will speak for the government. Listen to him carefully, so she may know what the government is thinking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46261	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. I have to intervene now with the opinion I've been trying all morning, since morning, when Mr. Simic finished his speech, to present to you MPs and MPs. So, Mr. Simic presented certain amendments as a proposal this morning that did not agree on our sections, in agreement and after the government accepted the amendment or, in agreement with you, because you accepted them as well. If the intention had been good and fair, then Mr. Simic, first thing this morning, when he finished his presentation, would have given these amendments to us. The fact is that he announced it, read something, and delivered the amendments now to the Parliament at 15.45. And you're saying that the hack against the proposal started. No, I've been telling you all morning that you need to get along by tomorrow. Neither did anyone know, nor did anyone approach, nor did he agree with anyone regarding our talks with the Ministry of Justice. So, you announced some changes this morning compared to what we discussed all along, but not in the form of any amendments, but in the form of you accepting amendments that were amendments made by Mr Alexic, Professor Lovrinović, but at 15.45 you brought your amendments that substantially alter our agreement. So back to the beginning of our conversation together. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted your legislative proposal in forms and interventions with the amendments that you have agreed with the Government and have accepted. Something else was announced during the morning, and you just handed it over this afternoon. If everything had been prepared, if everything had been as discussed as you say, then we would have those amendments first thing this morning, not this afternoon. Tomorrow you're expecting a vote and I have all the time the feeling that you want it not to be accepted. And if you'd had it prepared from the beginning, you'd have given it to us in time then. So we'd be talking in time about what you've been saying all day. I was the first to warn, well-intentioned you, that you should talk about what's a new fact compared to what we've been talking about all along. So, Mr. Simic if he already had it this morning, why didn't he put it on the table first thing this morning. Some HDZ representatives and ruling coalitions have reported for the debate, respecting the fact that they are discussing what has been agreed with you as a proposing and what the government has accepted. The government has not considered these amendments that you have made today, nor have there been any speeches at any of our meetings. Now deny me, if I don't speak, no, it was, now there are new facts and circumstances. So, we don't know, we throw fog in the eyes of our public following us. I repeat, loud and clear, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts your bill. As we agreed at the Ministry of Justice, in a way that you accepted all amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I warned you well this morning, that the changes you announced during the morning and during the afternoon and officially delivered should be discussed until tomorrow's vote. Neither has anyone contacted you officially proposing to the government, nor have you done anything concrete about it, except continue to say that the consensus has been reached and that we have agreed on everything that all MPs, all clubs unanimously support your bill. So, your bill of law in the frameworks agreed on by expert groups and what the Government has corrected with its amendments, and you have accepted, remains what has been accepted, and what is not, should have been communicated and discussed in a way that you, as a legislator of the law, know very well what your business opportunities are. And it's one thing to propose the laws of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so it becomes an integral part of the law, and the other is that you as a club of representatives are a few of you who have been proposed by the Government as such. So let's be honest and honest with the public and everyone. So there is a good intention of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice, but be fair we haven't talked about this. This morning it was announced, it came now this afternoon. So I have no intention of saying that this law should not be passed, that this law is not right. We need to pass a law that will be legally enforceable, which will have no legal doubt and which will not endanger the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. And that is the task of all of us and of you on this side and of us on this side representing the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no figs in his pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46262	Thank you, too, Mr. Salapic. Don't leave because we have four replicas. Mr. Pernar, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46263	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that when I handed over one amendment and showed my colleagues to Grmoji, i.e. Simic, my colleague Simic told me Ivana, we have even a better solution. And he showed me, I said, fellow Shimic, well done. When a colleague of the HDZ gave the amendment, fellow Bridge colleagues looked at the amendment and said this was a good thing. SDP colleagues gave some amendments, bridge colleagues said good ones. So the goal is to find a solution together and I don't see why the government now claims it's put before a finished act, etc. When the law was passed on Agrokor Law was passed in four days, when the law was passed on to RBA cooperatives that had been made, both readings passed, it was to go to the vote suddenly the government says now it can't. Why? Because sometimes you realize certain things at the last minute, so you figure them out relatively late. But we have time, and tomorrow we can have a vote at 3:00 p.m., and the government already knows what these amendments are, and there's time to say tomorrow to 3:00 p.m. whether or not they're controversial. So it can't be said here that the government is before the final act, for hours the lawyers can study and watch it tomorrow. And I think there's a bigger problem here in law, a measure of law than in procedure. And this proposal is truly commendable and it's like I'm saying now I'm not gonna support the law because the Bridge proposed it. Why would he do that? The law is for citizens and for citizens, and it won't be brought by the Bridge we'll all bring it together and we'll all make it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46264	Thank you, Mr. Pernar. Mr. Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46265	Dear Mr. Salapic. Fortunately, there's a speech I've prepared for today, and I've read it, so I'll just say one or two sentences. During my presentation, I said the following in the next few sentences I will look back on the amendments that we will propose to those other representatives or clubs that we know at the moment, and whose content we intend to accept. After that, I said that we would propose amendments to those accounts from which nothing had been taken down over a year and those accounts were unblocked. I've listed here and out of date, and I've listed this part that refers to the inability to perform real estate if the amount in most majors is paid. Why at that point, we didn't have the amendments prepared just for this very reason, which says I'm going to look back at the amendments that we're familiar with right now. Today, amendments and other colleagues came in, and I also said in my presentation that our amendments would contain certain amendments and other colleagues, so we would refuse them for formal reasons or cause them to be accepted through our amendments. That's why we've been waiting for that text to be completed by the end of what we got up to three hours. But very clearly already in the morning I said what the Bridge's amendments would contain and they're just saying that. As for agreeing with the Ministry of Justice as I have said before, we have indeed held talks with the Ministry of Justice and discussed amendments and colleagues' proposals by Alexic and colleagues Lovrinovic. We wanted to hear what the Justice Department thinks about it, but the Justice Department isn't proposing in this case. In this case, we are the promoter and at no time in our conversations we have not told us the unacceptable amendment of fellow Alexic. You were there, you know we didn't say that at all. We held a club session yesterday to determine what is acceptable to us and today we defend this assembly and invite everyone to support us in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46266	Thank you very much. Mr. Sincic's next replica. You want to answer now? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46267	Your political assessment is yours in which you will present what we discussed at the Ministry of Justice and I will not speak for legitimate reasons. I am sure and repeat here in front of you all that these questions that you have announced to me in part in your speech this morning, but not as an amendment, but as your presentation on behalf of the promoter. Officially, the amendment came this afternoon. So I go back to what we talked about, we agreed all that this final text of the law remained the way we talked to the Ministry of Justice, that it remained within the framework of the amendments adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in agreement with you as a proposing there would be no need for this kind of waiting of 6.7 hours for you to submit those amendments if we discussed it. We didn't talk about it. I only ask you, and this is because of the public very important Government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted your bill in the frameworks as proposed and agreed with you. You read some new amendments this morning and I then invited you to consult on it by tomorrow because they were not the subject of a session of the government of the Republic of Croatia or of our joint talks. So the MPs who spoke and supported the bill, I go back to the same, talked about what the government had arranged with you, nomotechnically and partially in some articles, and technically. What you're saying now, so I wouldn't prejudge the way your political promotion or the way you want to present your law or your intentions, I don't doubt your good intentions, but the political tactics you're leading now, you've proposed this law as part of the government, no longer you are, now you're an opposition. This is the first time the legislator is an opposition and that the government is making amendments to the opposition proposal and that the government accepts, you know that very well. We don't need to talk about political history and procedures in Parliament, I'm telling you honestly we haven't consulted on the legal consequences of the amendments you have now given this afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46268	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Sincic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46269	Thank you, Chairman. Here's if what Mr. Salapic said is true, then someone here is sabotaging the procedure. Please, all of us here and the representatives of the government not to play with the fates of the debtors, let the legislator immediately from these rates go to meet with the representatives of the government to solve these procedural problems if there are and if exactly what is said. Please, it's a sensitive subject, it must not be allowed to fail tomorrow, the contents to fail due to shape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46270	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya. ... No, you had a replica before. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You want a replica or you want a direct debate. ... Here you are, having a debate, Mr. Grmoy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's like an individual debate by Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46271	Well, now, after what's been brought out by the Secretary of State, Col. Simic, here's a colleague of Sincic's, it's absolutely clear there's no problem with these amendments. They were this morning, and now we can only appeal to some kind of procedure but the procedure is respected. Because we're legislators and we've even respected the government's amendments and then all those amendments that we thought were good we accepted. Also, we've given our amendments. I'd like to, you're the secretary of state, you're an expert, here's a colleague, Sagar said we're not a professional body here, I'd like you to say what amendment, here you have them now, which amendment is problematic? What amendment doesn't benefit our citizens? That's what I'd like to hear, and then we'll talk. We want this law to pass. It's not true what my colleague Grbin was saying. We want it not to go away. So what do we have to yell about not passing the law? Let's go help people, and that's where I agree with my colleague, Sincic. But let's see what the problem is, which, here, Mr. Grbin has made an observation over the past 10 years, I absolutely disagree. And here's no one to make a rational argument about why a colleague of the coat of arms would be right. I asked my colleague Shuker if that's the problem, he says it's not the problem, the problem is the procedure. Item 5, I would like to ask that now, here is my colleague Shuker, you are replicating me, you are correct, do not speak the article, the item, but say what is a particular problem, please, for the sake of Croatian citizens and for the purposes of the public and for all those who are blocked leaving Croatia. Tell me what the problem is. We want to resolve this, we want to resolve it by compromise and consensus. But surely what I won't allow is for someone of some particular interest, someone because they're pressed by a particular lobby says something can't go even though there's no rational argument. Please rephrase and tell me what the problem is, and we'll be very happy to sit down and talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46272	Thank you very much. We've got three, and Ice cream too. We've got four lines. ... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Grmoy, when your amendment came to the bench, I have to admit that I was kind of embarrassed by paragraph 4 in this amendment that you're changing Article 15, which is, I'm not going to read it so I don't waste a lot of time, that's why you can't handle the only real estate. So if someone paid off the principal, then you can't handle the execution and if someone means you haven't paid off then the execution will be able to handle it. Of these 300 and several thousand blocked people in Croatia today, do you have any information on how many housing loans there are and how many of these housing loans, how many people have paid off the capital? I have to tell you that at this point I know a lot of people who are very hard to live for and barely repay their credit, pay it off for years and still haven't paid off the principal. If God didn't give up, they wouldn't have to lose their jobs, so that God wouldn't get sick, and they couldn't do it anymore, they didn't pay off, they were left without their apartment or house. How will you save them? I can't see from this? From this, it is very clear that someone who paid off the principal is not able to sit down with him, can raise the responsibility to the only real estate and the one who paid off the principal so he couldn't. And I don't understand it right now, so explain, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46274	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46275	My dear colleague, I do not think this amendment is at all problematic and that it is now in favour of our citizens. So it's about if you're something through the wars, if you're everything you've paid off, if you've paid off the principal, so it's just, if you've paid off the principal and the rest, the amount, the amount... My colleagues, can you just let me explain, the amount you've paid off means interest and all, the amount you've paid off if it's at the height of the principal then you can't carry out the performance of the only real estate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do you understand? ... What, what, what do you mean? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just a minute, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46276	No, please, let Mr. Bolt go. Mr. Shucker, you have a replica later, you have a replica, Mr. Shucker, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46277	My colleagues, you have the right to a replica. So, for other people not covered by this measure, there are other measures and amendments, but this is what's right. If someone returning the credit returned the principal, imagine what frustration it was, you know that you gave back what you raised to the bank, you gave it back to them and they took away your property after that. This is a fair measure. This is a fair measure, my colleague. ... What's the problem? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I don't understand what you're saying. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46278	Thank you very much. But if I may just do one small thing, using it again for a moment but well on purpose, I know, my credit looks like I'm paying both the principal and the interests together. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46279	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear comrade Grmoya, here will be an opportunity in response to my replica to explain some things. Let me just say it one more time and I stand by that position, so the Croatian Parliament is making political decisions. You have now repeated my words to the expert body, there has also been a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mr. Hrelje, when we say an expert body, I don't think the Assembly is a committee in which professional people who should make this and that decision are sitting. But of course, I don't think the Parliament is making any professional decisions. And in that sense, I also say that here in the Parliament must be people of expertise. I didn't mean not to sit professional people, professional people each from their own area, and I believe that all the suggestions that come are prepared professional. And so I say once again, if I've offended someone, it wasn't my intention, I just want to point out Parliament isn't a commission, it's not what we've just sent, making some decisions that are purely about professions. And now you have a chance to explain maybe some of the things you wanted to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46280	Mr. Grmoy's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46281	Just so I can explain through this replica of yours, I will read: “On the property which is the only residential property to be executed and which is under the law of the Loan Treaty, the publisher, the creditor, or his successor, the representative or the claimant cannot launch if it is under this same Treaty of Credit, the creditor or the authorised person receives an amount that responds to the height of the principal of the Loan Treaty. The total amount received by the creditor within the meaning of the provision of paragraph 4, shall be all the cash amounts or other charges received by the creditor or by him by the creditor or by the third party who have been paid under the Loan Treaty, whether or not they relate to the payment of the principal, interest or any other costs paid by the creditor." I think it is now clear what it is, here. Thunder
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46282	Let's move on, and now it's Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46283	Thank you very much. I said five hours ago when I replicated my colleague Mrak-Taritash, and I'll tell you again. Why didn't you follow procedure? So you had to sit down with the government, settle this. The other thing It's not a procedure? [[- It's not a procedure.]] Then one of us doesn't know anything. Comrade Grmoy, at the moment you agreed the text with someone, which is a government that gives an opinion and if you have changed that integral text with the amendment, you must ask for the government's consent again, but that's where we're going to stop. You're talking yours, I'm talking mine. And you know what I'm going to tell you? Article 4(4), paragraph 5. No young man will get more credit in Croatia unless his parents or anyone else give him a mortgage. You here, just a minute, I'm asking you nicely, I respect that you know everything, and we don't know anything, but let us say our opinions that will be in the record of this and let someone know something and that someone in life has been doing something. With this provision, paragraphs 4 and 5, you have argued that no young man in Croatia will be able to obtain credit for anything unless his parents or anyone else gives him a mortgage. Who's gonna give you credit if he knows in advance that he can't charge interest? Listen, buddy. You must understand that money is like everything else. And that it has its price. And someone liked it or didn't like it. I've never spoken populistly in this high house, but I've spoken in favor, at least I think I spoke in favor, maybe I was wrong, but I want to now. I don't want a history of populism. I've been telling you for five hours, give you a deal with the government, don't keep running away from the government having to give you an opinion on this amendment. But the Parliament can't vote him in a business vote until the government gives an opinion. You can say whatever you want, so look, you can do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46284	Thank you, thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Grmoy's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46285	Comrade Shuker, I don't know everything, I don't know much, but absolutely business is wrong. So business, no, we can give the amendments means tomorrow. We can give tomorrow, so you're doing business wrong. And as far as this is concerned, it's not that someone won't repay the loan and the bank won't give him credit, it's just that it can't be done with real estate if the man paid off means the principal, that it can't be done with real estate. ... I understand very well. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I understand very well. And I'm sure the bank will give credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46286	Okay. Now, before I give to the gentleman, but you must admit that this is one of the few laws in this House where the debate is being held, not where each other is being attacked. There's still some debate going on. Here you are, Mr. Bull, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Col. Shuker injured Article 238, paragraph 5, because the fact is that the amendments that both HDZ clubs and MOST and Government have given are all according to the Rules of Procedure. Because the proposer in this case, MOST, is an independent list, and that's the most important thing in this case. So, speaking at least, I wouldn't want the hard words now, but it's not true that they're not amendments to the Rules of Procedure, all of these amendments are according to the Rules of Procedure, and we expect that everyone together like MOST, as a pronoun, has accepted the government's amendments, as he has accepted and agreed with the Living Wall, with Mr. Aleksic, Lovrinovic, that we all together in the interest of citizens do not complicate things but simply accept this, from protecting one property to unblocking our citizens who have 10 years of their accounts blocked, for life, i.e. which are blocked So in 238, paragraph 5, where you used to disrespect MPs because by procedure, it's here... [[Intruder Radin: What did you say which article of the Rules of Procedure was, I didn't hear?]] Well, what do you mean? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Radin: Very disdainful, good.]] Well, he can't say on this important issue that the amendments to the Most Independent Lists as a proposing that they don't comply with the procedure as long as the debate takes place. Well, I think that's clear as day, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46288	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Shuker also requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46289	For the truth. Article 238, I didn't say at all... 238, paragraph 5. I have not said at all that the amendments have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I beg you nicely, Comrade Bull. So I'm just saying that you as a proposer have changed the integrated text that you've agreed with the government and the government has to give its opinion on it. I was talking about it, all amendments were submitted to the Rules of Procedure. However, I know that some colleagues know everything, so they laugh, but no act in this House that is not the proposing government can come to the debate without the Government giving an opinion on it. So at the moment you handed in, you changed the integral text by amendment, you should have tried to agree with the government, get an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46290	Thank you very much. Sir. You got it. [[We agreed with the government. The government gave amendments to the Rules of Procedure after the first reading.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. This is one of the laws in which we would all need our own interests that we all had before we became parliamentary representatives to put aside. So there are laws in which we invest our expertise, for example in education, when I speak or other colleagues who are professors speak from the position of professors. But here some MPs spoke as lawyers, not as MPs, and that's the taste of everything. So, no law, and neither is this law perfect. With this law, some people won't go well. One of them is lawyers and public notebooks and all that. However, the taste of everything is that this law has been introduced by most citizens who have been blocked, who have been executed, has helped some, but that some MPs here have come out of the position of their profession, not the national representative whom the citizen has chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46292	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you are, Mr. Varda, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46293	Mr Vice-President, Article 201(1), Article 202(4). With good intentions, I will surely vote in favour of the law with all amendments under the knowledge that there can be an assessment of constitutionality, that we understand each other. If we're dealing with populism and this is populism which I say isn't because it goes to the benefit of all citizens, then I'm willing to put myself at risk. But Article 201 states: "The amendments are made by the Proposer and the Government if they are not the legislator." So these today, too. And Article 202(4), if the applicant of the amendment, that's it, let me see. If the final draft of the law has not been submitted by the Government on an amendment with which the Government has not agreed, the vote shall be taken separately. I'm just warning the motionor of the procedure, because due to the procedure, a violation of the procedure could be a violation of the law in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46294	Now it's pretty clear, I think the Parliament can treat the amendments, that's clear. Is that right? So if it's not going to be, if I get it right, if we don't have the government's opinion, if there's no time, then they're going to vote individually... Yes, amendments the government disagreed on will be voted separately. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Okay, answer to Mr. Grmoy's replica. Mr. Grmoy, you have an answer to Mr. Sladolev's replica, not to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. To Mr. Sladolev's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46295	That's right, that's right. No, no, I answer, it's clear. You're absolutely right. I don't know what's going on right now in the afternoon. Until this morning, or all day long, everything was fine, there were clear amendments and the intentions of the Most and other representatives. The government has an opportunity to manifest itself in the morning. So there's no problem. And now the government can manifest itself on these amendments, so there's no reason why I don't know how to call any procedural stuff. Nothing's problematic. Comrade Shuker, there's no reason to be upset. We need to find and find a way to help our most endangered citizens. All these amendments and suggestions that we have made here and that have given other club representatives will help our citizens. Do not let more prime ministers or anyone boast about the decline of the number of unemployed, while Germany is also saying how many people we have gone there. We have to stop this fellow Shuker and all the other dear colleagues. And I think we've got enough sense and enough patience and enough desire to go that way. And I think she showed it to the debate, so I don't think there's gonna be any problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46296	Yeah, with me wanting to remind you, that's where things have to be cleared up. T is not interpreted as what Mr. Varda said sees in the same way. Article 202 of the last paragraph: "If the final draft of the law has not been submitted by the Government, the amendment with which the Government has not agreed votes separately." There remains a problem which means an amendment that the government has not agreed to. She disagreed because she had no chance because of time and did not agree because she was against it, because she was against it. In any case, these amendments vote separately tomorrow. That's very clear, and then you vote on the law. So the promoter can't say these amendments are in the body of the law if the government didn't agree, but voted separately on them. That's what the Rules of Procedure says if I understand the Rules of Procedure well. Let's move on. If anyone does, if anyone wants to look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, we'll listen to him. Oh, no? Okay. Let's move on. Mr. Stephen Curai. Mr. Podolnjak. An article?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46297	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46298	Wait, first, turn on the microphone so we can hear it. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46299	Excuse me. In view of this controversial moment, imagine the next situation is very simple, that the text of these amendments was proposed by any MP in the Croatian Parliament exactly the same text that MOST put into the final proposal. ... But see that any representative has proposed it precisely these 3 amendments, and the government has generally not shown itself about all the amendments that occurred during the debate. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But the fact that the government would have to make a statement about it tomorrow morning, right, if it was her law, it would have come out tomorrow morning before the vote, you'd have to take a stand. That's exactly what we're looking for and we're... that the government has no reason not to take a stand tomorrow on the basis of today's debate, the amendments that are therefore possible for the government to consult its legal service tomorrow. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So they can be obvious. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, thank you, thank you, thank you, so, time is up, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46300	Time's up. Mr. Curaj... Sir, please, Mr. Curray, as an individual debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Please, it is, in any case, all we're saying is interesting, so let's listen then. A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46301	Thank you, Vice President. Yeah, one of my things that I wanted to discuss is this legal form in which the amendment can't become an integral part of the bill's proposal, or amendments to the law, if it's not the Government Proposer, it's absolutely clear. But we're moving on. A lot of things since I've applied seem to have changed, and then, accordingly, I'm going to adjust my exposure to citizens, namely, this afternoon we're witnesses, and we're also participants in an inflation amendment, which I think is kind of hot and unholy to suggest one of my bidding bids to citizens, and now my question is actually, not a question, but the debate is if we're really witnessing right now that we have dozens of new amendments, which suddenly everybody agrees, then maybe the final proposal wasn't very good, or it could have been much better, let's say. I think we all agree there's no dispute here. Some of the things I said in the presentation, and as soon as Mr. Šimić had the first morning of exposure, which was not covered by these changes, it means that they cannot be touched, but mention Article 172. The law of law, not this... but the executive law that speaks of the exemption of the exercise, the untaxed receipts, the regression, the Christmases and everything else, we can't change, we have to wait for new proposals or new laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, on the board, I also discussed protection during the first exercise. The first one, the first blocker requirement under all transaction accounts, is not covered. So, we have a situation today that people who don't even know that they're being led by an executive procedure, all of a sudden when they're being paid, they go pay up, a good part of the amount goes into blockade, and they're actually left without money, because then there's not another measure of 2/3, or 3/4 of the salary. We also have certain parts of the law that speak of fees for the costs of implementation of the commission, the executives, or the authorised commissioners. These even fees are not recognised by the court in certain parts, although by law they should. We also have ideas based on the subject. So these are some things that will need to be further developed and done. So it's just saying that we're gonna have more work to do about this law. Because what's important and what you'd like to take advantage of now is the opportunity for this amendment that has arrived. In that original proposal, Article 80(b) of Article 15 of the amendment stated that the court would reject it as an unlawful proposal for enforcement of the real estate of a natural person. In this new amendment, that term of a natural person has been dropped. Of course, we had this question about what the craftsmen would do, whether they were or not. And in this proposal is now the famous item 4 and Article 5 of the new 80. b) which speaks to the property which is the only residential property to be executed and which, under the law of publishing due to the loan agreement, is the publisher... etc. I can't take the lead if she's paid in total interest and principal, which is a good thing actually. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can generally agree with that, like this, just in principle. But what's going on here? First of all, this is about a loan, it's not about a housing loan. So we can finally have a situation that the craftsman raises the credit, for the craftsmanship, which he uses in the way he uses, comes to a point when he has paid the interest total and the principal paid the original amount, because of course the money has its value, the value of money is not one for one, but money is always interest. That's the value of money like some of the goods we market and borrow. Whatever. And it just stops. And that twist, it goes into a blockade, the bank can't take the real estate, which we'll move on, he's transferred the money, somewhere he's done whatever I know, it's some kind of air vacuum that hasn't been solved here. Of course, the even greater risk that the colleagues here have stated is that we must not be brought in, which I was saying earlier today and earlier in the debate, so that they do not make it difficult for all of the generations to just take up a housing loan, in a way that their newly acquired property is a deposit. Because we can't, at least I don't see any legal right, based on making someone, it's a bank, a cooperative or a private person give credit to someone beyond their own interests. We need to be clear about that. And that's why I'm saying that of course it's going in the right direction, that it's going well, that nobody's going to slow down at all. They say the road to hell is filled with good intentions. It doesn't have to be. But we have to look far more far-reaching. We really need to study this a little bit better, because this is just what I got from the bench here to study when it arrived... He's opening up some questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You may be able to answer me, I may be pleased, but it's here as someone who, and understands some legal matters, I don't see that it's decoded like that. Because it's a good thing, when we look, that a lot of people because of the change in course, first of all because of the change in course, and then because of the variable interest, they end up paying a lot of money back, returning and returning more, and they didn't even get to half the principal. And that's really scary. I personally had such a loan for the car, since 2006, where I paid it off 2, 10, 15% more than what was contracted initially right, and in the end I returned a loan with a third of the amount, closed, I didn't even get to a third of the capital, whether it was the francs, whether it was interest or all of what we hear today, and that's the intensity and we need to make sure it didn't happen. But I'm afraid it might not work out this way. Now there are other things, maybe other laws refer to it. And I say you should think about it. Of course, when we look at something is just, but we need to see if it is feasible and whether it will have any further impact on some other not only laws, but rather on other opportunities for our citizens who do not now have any responsibilities and who may want to borrow to solve the housing issue. That's what the key is here. I'm saying there were more amendments to the speech, now you're saying that you've announced a colleague named Sincic, a colleague of Pernar's announced their amendments, a colleague of Alexic's something too far, and now I've truly forgotten more what they were talking about. So I've been here all day from all this, and I can't say exactly what they are right now, which was brought in by their proposings, until I get the paper I won't know. I'm afraid that we've entered that timeline now, and it's already past this afternoon that we can certainly leave some things to fix and certain things need to be changed, and that's where we can all agree. Just the way, let's all be satisfied that citizens are satisfied, first of all, because we're doing this because of them, because of no one's private interests, or that we're not going to tell them anymore, because we're angry, we have to always think about the citizens. I don't care about all the lawyers, the public notebooks and everything else, they don't give a shit. Citizens must be the first to take no other citizen to give something to the third, his right, his property, his future whatever it is. And it's just that the question here is what we're talking about now and these amendments and all day in this Implementing Law is that in principle we're all agreed that we can't take for some small money the great costs that where and where the basic debt comes from, but that the debts must be paid back I think... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46302	Thank you very much. The first line has Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46303	Dear colleague. I think it's clear to all of us that we didn't question this at all, either with the bill or with these amendments, that the debts must be paid back. We are talking here about a fair approach in which no one will be damaged, and Croatian citizens who can't wait for the new Executive Law, who will die if we don't do something, who will be deposed, who will leave Croatia, which is why leaving Croatia will lead to a demographic breakdown. And now the only question is whether or not we're going to be watching, if there's gonna be a little damage to some of the lawyers, if there's going to be any damage to some of the banks. Nothing will happen to you, nothing will happen to them, nothing dear colleague Curaj will happen to them, but Croatian citizens are in an unbearable agony that we must end, we must end. And all these suggestions go in favor of the citizens, no one here said it wasn't like that, just a fellow Shucker caught the procedure. Let's let the procedure go, imagine now that the Croatian citizens are watching this fellow Shucker is talking about the procedure, and we are talking about concrete solutions, we are talking about concrete solutions. Comrade Shucker, please calm down, calm down, fellow You can rephrase my colleague Shuker, if you don't agree with me, I'm very calm and I'm not rude at all. [[Intruder Radin: Please proceed to the end of Mr. Grumoja, please proceed.]] You were talking about procedure, I was talking about it. All right, all right. [[Intruder Radin: You cannot be replicated because you have a replica.]] So I was talking about exactly which article, which amendment is wrong and that's what's important and what we need to talk about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46304	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Churay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46305	Thank you, Vice President. So I think we're more or less all in this law and that's the vice president well said that we're no longer discussing on any ideological side but on the side of how best to get the best material here. So that item 4 says on the property which is the only residential property to perform and down because of the loan contract you might consider putting a housing loan somewhere in the previous proposal you had a natural person, now it doesn't say. So the first paragraph of the first 82 was written for the purpose of the real estate of a natural person when we talked about the amount of 20 thousand 50 here now that we're talking about 50 more natural persons anywhere. It says down there that it's a residential property. Of course a legal person like d.o.o. It can't have a residential property and it's clear, the intensity of the legislator and you as a legislator is quite clear, but I'm just here afraid that we've opened the door and the craftsmen that we need to do again, but if that's what their obligations from doing the crafts and activities are, then it's not that intensity anymore, then it's not that. Then somewhere the craftsmen will be in a better position than the owners d.o.o. or J.D.O. On the other hand, we need to look at these abuses so that they're really eliminated so that someone doesn't wait to get to zero and then they're all liquidated and they say I can't do it anymore, and you can't take what I have a hall in which I live as a craftsman or I don't know what. Here's the only thing I've ever seen from this part of it, since in that intensity, so we don't open it... so tomorrow a craftsman comes in and says to the bank... craftsmen they say they can't admit your real estate you live in or I don't know what. So whether it can be that stretch or not, here's what my intensity was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46306	I thank my colleague Stephen Churay. Next up for the replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46307	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Curaj, I agree with you that other legal regulations can also influence that not only by the executive law on certain things that are now being changed. But it's high time to protect one real estate, it's high time, one real estate that makes 50, which makes a man pay off his entire interest loan, because first of all, we get 70 percent interest, the principal 30 and eventually the man pays even more capital, loses his job, so he takes away his only real estate. We're talking about people who have the only real estate. Here is the fact that a number of lists have been found to be going into the new Executive Law but now is the final moment for all together with these proposed amendments to both the Government and the HDZ and all here, the final moment and this is the call of the expert public, the president of the Republic who is much more extremely calling for the performance, even to stop the execution, Judge Kolakusic, and so many people who say that the system is our simple link round. People are leaving, no one can pay anyone for 330,000 blocks. In this way we can no longer fall upon the burden of those people who have been, had a dead account or a year's dead account, 10 years of those who cannot return, of course should go into obsolescence, cannot be enslaved for life. And even their heirs, even their heirs, are in debt slavery. This is a fundamental question, and right now we have to react because we have a moment of 56 thousand people last year in Germany and this year there are indications that even more people are gone. And I think we should put this spotlessly in the interest of people, it's all by procedure. If we appeal to procedure, the people will never forgive us. Please, here I am as counsel to never again... to declare this law, I will be a happy man because we have helped tens of thousands of people to stay in Croatia and live. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46308	I thank my colleague Bull. Answer, dear colleague Curai, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46309	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague Bulj, here's just one additional example, means a real estate that is the only residential real estate contractor, which if in the process of taking credit to, say, just 6 months before the payment and the amount equal to the principal and which contains more than half the interest of the debtor in that case, the donation contract is cleared of all other properties? A son, a daughter, a wife, especially if he's a craftsman, and then he can't donate, so it's traffic. Or sell, let's say or sell, but I'm talking exactly the hard shape and then the bank can't do it to him. Is that an emergency? No, it can't be, it can't be. The intensity must be to protect that little man who really was the only one who did it in his life, thought he would continue to work, unfortunately because of some living circumstances he couldn't repay the loan and returned it to more than half and now he's taking away that one property and throwing it on the street. It's an emergency. But in that intensity, we have to think about these things and the holes that someone will use, unfortunately, that's what we are, as people say in general. And that's why it doesn't put it here, does it... credit obligations, no other property must be disposed of,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] who doesn't guarantee us that it won't be one real estate to him. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] E needs other laws, yes, but I agree that we did a good job today, and that we're going in the right direction, where we're breaking up a little bit is that right now we have to do everything, everything we can put in there because it's going to be something terrible in the next three months, I'm afraid we're not going too fast, not to do any more damage than potential benefits. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46310	I thank you for your response to my colleague Curai. The next replica, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46311	Dear colleague Curai, you mentioned the word "indulgence" to citizens related to this debate today and then you mentioned... The amendments we've witnessed here at the moment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's this about? This is about the fact that this law doesn't exist for the last month or two, it exists for almost a year, so for months. What happened to this law? There was an agreement at the government, and it was done and the government accepted it. This morning's debate was going in the right direction, I think a general consensus has been reached for all of us here to support such a law. Even on behalf of the promoter Mr. Simic in the morning when he speaks only announces that they will give some amendment but still doesn't speak for any of us, nor that it will be these two amendments that would then happen at 15.45 to come to us here on a table of some amendments about which neither the government nor we MPs know about, nor were there any items in that agreement with the Government. Mr. Varga mentioned the possibilities, so they can put their amendment to the vote, we can vote on it, refuse it or not refuse it, but what are we up to? We're exposing ourselves to something far more dangerous because this isn't about raising as you said, this is about fast for the citizens of all of us here, including the presidents of the Republic, including the Government of the Republic. We are putting ourselves at risk and the third reading of this law because in this Rules of Procedure, Article 203 says nicely if there is a greater number of amendments that, in an important or in many ways, change the meaning of the law itself, the Parliament makes a decision to go into third reading, it can make a decision. And I believe that after a debate like this, this way of thinking that it might happen the same way. And then again, we're not talking about speedy citizens, we're talking about exactly what you said to raise them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46312	I thank my colleague, Klaric. My colleague Curaj's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46313	Here, dear colleague Klaric, of course, you've detected the same thing, you've upgraded one, I'm afraid that, seeing how this goes, and that the law will pass both the honor and the promoter and the tenacity and what's going on, because it's good that we're talking here today, it's really started here as people mention the president, I don't know what she's done or said, but obviously they've been over it, so they're getting distracted, people obviously wanted to make a little political point. I don't mean specifically maybe the promoter, but also all of us, or the people who have issued some amendments here to get their hands on that cake that's now saved for these citizens. In this law, what is being said may be a puzzling task where it can no longer go into the pursuit of funds without a final judgment, or it is evened out as it was with a final court order, so for 5, 10 thousand kuna, you cannot execute someone on the basis of a public record. And that's the part, and that's the part, so you can say, the broad masses, the pulsism that is, but this next thing you know is really intensity is good, and I recognize the intensity that really hurts, but I'm afraid that we're going to do more damage than good, and that's why we shouldn't get to the bottom of it. In the day to bring amendments that have not been passed, the ministry's professional service has not delivered an opinion, no public debate has been held, as is the case in this regard. Because on my proposal on Christmas issues, regressions and all the other tax benefits because, saidly, after the first reading, you had plenty of time to do it, so you didn't, so as later on, you'd get rid of it so suddenly you wouldn't have so much time, you wouldn't have the same things to do. So I ask you once again, to stick to what was the final proposal and to do it unanimously because it really is what citizens deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46314	I thank my colleagues Curaj for his reply, the next replica of the distinguished colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46315	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Curray. Well, after all the laws we've passed, so that the wrong procedure is amazing, that you don't know the procedure is amazing. If, here, the roles have been replaced, therefore, the applicant in this case, MOST, has taken on himself the role of the Government which approves all of these amendments, regardless of when they are brought in and whether they are in agreement with the Government. We are discussing a final proposal that is in line with the Government and that defines this article 197. The Rules of Procedure, and that's the proposal we and we need to talk to him about. All of this has already been explained five times by the secretary of state here, is something that is then voted on separately or a third reading decision is made. So here are the roles of the proposings and of the one who should actually agree to all that the law provides for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46316	I thank my colleague Grodani Peric for the replica. And the last replica in this debate, dear colleague Tomislav Jagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46317	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm glad to see you again at work and wish you a quick full recovery. Dear colleague Curai, you have pointed to one important problem. In fact, an ideal solution when legal proposals are made for the future, because of some goal we want to achieve, and even when existing legal proposals are improving. One example was when Minister Maric proposed and explained the Law on Housing Consumer Credits here. I think it's even a legal proposal, so if not unanimously, a large majority of the votes have been passed. And he certainly helps or helps all those who will receive credit. We now have a problem here, that this legislative proposal and this article that you quoted, and it is related to the inability to perform real estate if it is paid through interest capital, you have rightly warned that this danger exists, but why is this proposed? Because there are many people who are in big trouble, and in fact this legislative proposal solves the problems that have arisen as a result of current system failures. In other words, there are cases, and you probably know such cases, where people were in debt, they paid off, actually through interest they paid off the principal already and then even with the top of their houses and from the real estate, they were still in debt, and their account was blocked. That's the problem. So when they paid for everything, what they took, of course they didn't pay the interest until the end, when it was taken away from them, they still owed. That's what we're talking about. In Croatia there are such people, we cannot close our eyes. Of course, there is a danger if this is misused in the future, but I hope that this progress, this legal solution, and then, if there is more government proposal, that it will still go in this direction to finally solve these problems, because above all, no matter what, someone now thought that there are political points, populism, but citizens' problems we have to solve. That's our role here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46318	I thank my colleague, Sagar. The answer, dear colleague Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46319	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Sagar, yes, I agree with this intention and I said it and that's the goal, but I'm concerned, of course we need these people help, but I'm worried about all of this possible let's just say, I'm not going to say malfeasance but abuse of that good intensity. Because really if someone at the moment of raising some obligation, credit, here doesn't say which, here doesn't say which, it can be any one, to write a residential one, it's already okay. But it can bribe any loan and there's more real estate that he sells, donates, gets rid of it, and you're also referring to this law. And this provision of the law that is then not disputed in that part, and it is disputed in the part that all those who want to borrow, what kind of conditions they will get. Will he then ask not 1:1 or... but 1:2 in the ratio of the stakes on the property, so that they bet on two properties, knowing that they will then be able to do one statue and not on the other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That could happen to us. So, the bank can look in line, we're looking for the 1:1 you're buying on, but give me another one as a guarantee, collateral in case we always have two, and that's not to be done. What happens if it's some real estate from a parent or someone else? What is his residential property because he is not a person in the process of the perpetrators he holds? Did we work that out? So, uh... There are a lot of questions being raised, and so I think this should be considered, well elaborated, because the intensity, I say, once again is good, a lot of people are unfortunately due to the course and due to the interest she found herself in the situation that for 10 years... [[We don't understand each other.]] Five years before the loan is paid, they owe half of what they paid or more, but we have to think about these other things because we can't be irresponsible to future generations. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46320	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go. Comrade Pernar, I'd like to ask you to finish your phone call. You're welcome to discuss this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46321	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Today our people are in a historical situation, historically because for the first time, the executive law is changed in favour of the perpetrators in a broader sense. We have proposed exactly 11 amendments and I believe that around these amendments, I believe some will not be accepted, but some will. I'll explain later.../Intruder Brkic: A colleague of Pernar, I'd just like to ask you for a moment. Stop the time. Dear colleagues Bulj, Klaric, Curaj and Šuker and Mr. Podolnjak, I would ask you to consult somewhere else so that we do not disturb our colleague Pernar in the debate. Thank you very much. Thank you, Chairman. The Live Wall and SNAGA club has handed over 11 amendments to this law. The first amendment refers to the fact that, in the event of a debt being ousted is less than 1000 kuna, which includes essentially utility companies, etc. to force himself on the burden of an executive. In this way we want to prevent the executions, or let’s say the fall in the performance due to small amounts of costs in which the performance costs are high. It means where to take 800 kunas and so on. I want to discourage the executives from making miserable amounts. The second article refers to the fact that even if the perpetrator gave consent to the mortgage on the property, it cannot be executed if it is the only home. Someone will say that these mortgages were excluded from this law because then banks wouldn't lend loans. However, keep in mind that the biggest problem with the dealings is actually about mortgage loans. In Spain, it wasn't like I didn't know any financial crisis, there was a mortgage crisis, there was a mortgage crisis, and that's why the government introduced a moratorium on mortgage loans. This government of ours, of course, has no intention of bringing such a measure, so we have therefore proposed an amendment that is elected in the Croatian Parliament whether or not to accept it. What's on our hearts is that the voters know that we stayed honest and gave everything we could to protect their homes. And if any family who has a mortgage on their apartment today, tomorrow, will be deposed to know that one day in the Croatian Parliament someone has raised a voice for them and that on the day that they will be thrown out on the street, those same MPs will stand with them and defend them, or that our statement here in the Assembly is not just a statement of word, ink on paper, but our deep conviction, and we are doing all to testify to Croatia and the whole world that loans cannot be returned to the credit system because the money for the payment of interest does not exist. As far as the third amendment is concerned, we've suggested that the secondary property can't be carried out if it's worth it, I'm sorry. Excuse me. If its value means a debt less than 40% of the estimated value of the property. In other words, instead of the fixed amount of the principal i.e. debt we want to introduce that depending on the ratio of debt and value of real estate, means 40% is a limit, i.e. the minimum debt needed to carry out the real estate. Also, by amendment number four, we're stopping the secret mirage. In this amendment 4, we regulate that the date of implementation of the case is to be notified by the court at least 8 days before the date of discharge and surrender of the property. Amendment 5 is a key amendment. In fact, the reason why the government offers 18 months of accommodation to those who leave the property peacefully is not because it wants to help them take care of the housing but primarily that they say it for efficiency. It means that it is faster to carry out the mirages, or that people agree to them themselves. We have suggested that the right to accommodation of 18 months yes and those who will not immediately, by the power vested in the decision to emigrate from the property, be evicted. In other words, it is given to those who have provided and who will resist the reflection. Furthermore, we want to protect the 6th perpetrator's amendment, i.e. receiving the perpetrators who are craftsmen. In other words, which receive so-called. income from independent activity or free professions. The problem is, let's say, copyright or any other rights that people have or receive, and they're not classic incomes that are not protected from enforcement. So you're subtracting the total amount. So we want the protected part of the income not just to pay. Also, as regards Amendments 8 and 9, they concern infringements that prevent them, punishing perpetrators who actually do illegal work. And what's crucial is Amendment 10. Amendment 10 says: “Article 44 is amended and it reads: Procedures under way before the entry into force of this law will be completed by applying the provisions of this law regardless of when they are in motion.” That way, because if this decision is not made, it means that all those who have already been blocked, all those who are awaiting dissuasion, all those who are in trouble right now, this law will not touch them at all unless this changes. So, this law applies to 33,000 already blocked citizens and citizens who are waiting for a raid unless our amendment is accepted. It will only apply to those who will find themselves in the future. We think it's good to put all the executives in the same position, the more the new law is more favourable for them. And in fact, all the people who are in trouble right now, they don't care what law we have today, if ladies and gentlemen don't accept this amendment. Why? Because that law won't apply to them. And we also moved that incomes based on regressions, goddesses, resurrections, severances and jubilee awards be exempted from the occasion. Whether the parliamentary majority accepts our proposals or not, that's up to them. It's not us. As a representative, I did my best, together with my colleagues, primarily Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, Branimir Bunjc and Goran Aleksic, to make as good as possible and as humane a law for them. It is on the soul of every single representative to be appointed according to our amendments. And in fact these amendments and your hands tomorrow are a living testimony that will enter the history of the Croatian state and the Croatian people, because they will show, what the politicians have taken, not towards themselves, not to other politicians, but to the citizens, as the subjects they choose. In fact, I'm guessing that no person is on the job. So, that is, most of us aren't undercover, we have money, we're not in financial trouble, so this law doesn't normally concern us. It's only about people who will soon, that is, people who are in trouble and people who need to be protected and saved from this man-eating system that takes the soul and life out of them. Now, as for the Bridge Amendment, the Bridge Amendment, they represent someone, let's call it a halfway solution that we will accept, of course, in case our amendments refuse. And we think these amendments are a step in the right direction. And I thank my fellow Bridge colleagues for their efforts and for all the other MPs who have put their time and effort into making this law as good as possible and for keeping as few things unsaid as possible. I also call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give its opinion on the proposed amendments by tomorrow's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46322	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46323	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pernar, I am very surprised that you who advocate those who have been disbursed, those who have been deposed from their houses and apartments, that you are so easily over one thing that I just explained to my colleague Grumoji, which is that those who have paid off the principal cannot sit on the only property, and others can. I understand that all people cannot be in the same position and those who have paid off 2 wars and those who have paid off the principal are not the same. But at least 80% of the principal he paid off should be somehow protected. And even my colleague Bulj, here's a little while ago in the conversation with me, said that it's okay and that he's in a lot of pain, what I'm saying, but, well, there he is, too, and I hope that you understand that, too, I hope that you'll at least change this, so that we give some more protection to people, because for a year and a half of the accommodation, I can understand all that. I don't think it's enough for a man to get on his feet, maybe get a job. And what if God doesn't get sick, then he doesn't have much, much more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46324	I thank my colleague Lukacic. My colleague Pernar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46325	Dear fellow Members, I have not easily crossed that detail, on the contrary, we have proposed an amendment that says: “In Article 12, in the amendment of Article 5, the word to abstain is replaced by a point, and the words, unless the perpetrator has given the mortgage, are deleted in other words. ” Our amendment also puts an end to the actions of those citizens who have mortgage loans. Whether they paid off the amount equal to the principal or not. And if your performance is not demagogue to me now during the replica, but it has been honest from the heart, I believe that you will support our amendment, not the Mosto amendment, which says that citizens with mortgage loans will be disbursed, if unfortunately they have failed to return the bank amount equal to the principal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46326	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. Next call came from a colleague named Nicole Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46327	Dear colleague Pernar, here I am thanking you for today's constructive debate and I agree with you that the government has plenty of time to show these amendments to the amendments that you and the other clubs have given representatives and that we can then do this part of the work that remains tomorrow. The only comment, therefore, on all these amendments, was from fellow Shucker to this part concerning the principal's payments because he considers, not everything to be the office of my colleague Shucker just resuming which were objections and then the banks would not give credit, that was one remark. And the second remark was a big one from a fellow coat of arms over the past ten years. These are the only two remarks we have, which practically means that the HDZ Club will no matter what the vote is if there is a vote first on the bill then on these amendments that the HDZ Club will support these other amendments, and that the SDP Club will not support if the SDP Club is the same attitude as the coat of arms that will not support this amendment on the limitation period after ten years. So it's simply some of the remarks that we had here during the debate and I respect that and respect that, that's the attitude of fellow Shuker, and here we had a position on the part of our colleagues. And I think that if these amendments don't go through, if this goes to vote all the rest, we've made one big step towards some better position for our citizens. And in that sense, I'm absolutely constructive and I want us to have at least an agreement tomorrow on all of this. If that's what it is then there's no problem, then there's no problem, here's what's going to happen tomorrow during the vote because a lot has changed since this morning. Here in that sense, thank you, colleague Pernar, for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46328	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. You've replicated your colleague Pernar, not Mr. Shucker, but fine. The answer to my esteemed colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46329	The Honorable colleague of Grmoy often after the police carried me on the raids and then into the station and hours he would lose his life talking to them, they would always ask me why you're doing all this, what's the point of it. And today I can tell them the following, the meaning of my activation and the activation of all my colleagues from the Living Wall, many known and unknown, was aimed at making one day the only real estate in which the performer lived. His home, declared something necessary for life. This law has been presented and adopted and has made huge civilization progress. Thanks to our activists, the only real estate issue was also questioned because while we were not at all discussing the issue. And today, we are preventing this law in a certain number of cases, or quite broadly over the only real estate. And I can only say that if this law will be voted tomorrow that this will be one of the happiest days of my life and that I will be able to look people in the street and that they will say really Ivan something you did for us what you could in the Parliament. And that's what people will say to all of you from HDZ and SDP who accept this bill because when they tell you that you're useless and that they have nothing from you, you'll tell them the law we voted on, that law protects your home and your family. So this is a law that defends not only the dignity of the perpetrators but also the dignity and face of all the MPs, and tomorrow you will see who has cheeks and who doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46330	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. Next up for the replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46331	Thank you very much. A fellow Pernar, indeed in this part where you said from the activists, public issues have been raised by citizens who have been covered up in both media and through various lobbys because they control this entire media area, and in particular in the judiciary it is unquestionable. Therefore, both your constructive debate today and the entire course and before you pointed out certainly gives to the importance of this law and certainly every parliamentary representative, I expect, I am not even a colleague of Grumoja doubting that some MPs will not vote, I am further convinced that the Government will give its testimony to these amendments, there is time, the Government is coming out of this Parliament. Today we are proudly here with some debates that have opened up about procedures that are less important, but this amendment of the law is in the citizens' interest not to tribune to go into new laws and new laws that are essentially the cause of all the events of the tribunes. But if we do this today to never enter the Parliament again if we vote 151 here tomorrow, we should be proud of everything that's been done to the bad people, it's hard to bring everything back now, but if we vote these amendments to the amendments, if we bring them all together, like the government, HDZ, most of them, the opposition really must be proud, and that I repeat, none of us as a Parliamentarian, we've done a lot, we've done one big deed to 330 thousand people. Most of these people won't all be solved, but surely they won't be in so much on their way to Germany if one of the reasons is this particular part. And I therefore expect the Prime Minister to be manifested on these amendments, not to see who the opposition is, who the government is, to see together for the first time who it is that the power center of Parliament's decision is for the first time, regardless of the government. Just what the Government Tribba do to show itself about the amendments, we're going to vote tomorrow, coordinate in the interest of the citizens and move on because the public is on the side of the change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46332	I would like to thank my colleague, dear colleague Bull. I'd like you to be careful on time. The answer to my esteemed colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46333	Thank you, Chairman. What I'd like to say is that they say in HDZ that these amendments are not perfect and lower some of their reasons. But when you remember what Plenkovic promised in the election campaign, he would stop the raids, that the president had promised to help the blocked, etc. If this law doesn't pass tomorrow, you'll show that it was all hypocritical, that it was all a lie. However, there is another option, another option is also possible. The second option is to say look, this law isn't perfect, it's not perfect, okay, I'll agree, it's not perfect, there's no law that's perfect, and to say we'll do better, we have an honest intention to help the perpetrators, okay, I believe you have an honest intention, but you know how I'll know if I can trust you? Simply vote the moratorium tomorrow until a new law is passed. But the easiest thing to say is this law isn't perfect, so then let's go all the way to this ultimate hell as it went. Nice, okay, you want a better law, you think this law is imperfect, give the moratorium to the top, that's the solution. And if you refuse this law tomorrow, if you refuse this law tomorrow and don't vote the moratorium you'll actually show that the blocked and executed citizens care as much as below, under your fingernails and I wish they weren't, I wish your stories in the election campaign were true, I wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46334	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46335	Thank you, Vice President. In your speech, you mentioned free interests as part of one of our amendments. I remember meeting a free artist, doing music. As he told me they're totally unprotected from the roof, he can't open a secure account, everything goes into a simple account, he gets it all together, of course, with all these crazy interest-gathering measures, huge costs, he doesn't end up left with anything. So here I call on all of our fellow MPs and we talked about it in the first reading, and here I remember, I read a phonogram from the debate in the first reading, so I call that in the bill of law, that is, a whole new executive law that will come as soon as possible, hopefully, that the issue of such free professions, crafts, the OPGs that we also mentioned because this affects a huge number of individuals in Croatia. Here's only around Agrokor we have 10 thousand OPGs working with him and the number of crafts, we can see that and in the register is huge and these people have been exposed. Therefore, there needs to be a thorough reflection on this whole executive problem and on the executive law as the heart of the problem, and then on that consumer bankruptcy law, and also the bankruptcy law itself, and the bill on the collection of funds from accounts and other related laws. And the things that aren't laws, the mention of the great fees that Finna collects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46336	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic. The answer to my esteemed colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46337	Dear colleague Sincic, I'm going to give you an example of shocking, receiving students through student contracts going all under the table, actually everything. The students are not protected from the exercise. And it's just one wheel in a row. So there are countless people who receive compensation for their work and are not in the form of wages. Example is fee, example is work through student service etc.. We want to amend the law and protect these people. We do. And if that's what HDZ and SDP want to do and the rest of the team in the Parliament, we'll see tomorrow, it's on them, it's not on us. We have done our best, we have entered this House, we have not prostituted, we have not traded our mandates, what we have advocated before we enter the Parliament, we have advocated even after entering the Parliament and these amendments to the legislative proposal are the crown of our work. And there you will see, our citizens, is the problem why the executive law is the way it is in us that we promised to do our best to solve it or to those who refuse solutions that are clearly needed and still do not want to accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46338	Thank you. We move to debate, final word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46339	Dear ladies and gentlemen. To end what I say, which line of work does that viral hit from Youtube say, to whom? So here's who I'm texting you next. The message reads like this, we in the Living Wall said there was no deal with the credit system, so it's not possible to compromise with financial institutions. If there wasn't a solution under quotes that would be acceptable to each other. And unlike us MOST colleagues, they said otherwise. The MOST colleagues spoke, there must be some compromise solution. And in this law, they've amended exactly what they suggested, a compromise solution, if, okay, you took a mortgage loan but if you returned the principal, there's no action. In my opinion, it's a fair and fair solution, although it doesn't suit the perpetrators, it's a fact. Now the fact is that we are from the Living Wall an interested group representing the interests of the perpetrators. And of course that's why we handed over the second amendment to protect real estate regardless of the mortgage. And I can understand that you reject our amendment because our amendment is exclusive because we represent only one side, we don't care about banks at all. However, MOST colleagues have made a balanced proposal, a proposal that does not lead anyone into a situation of disproportionate loss. Because it's not fair for you to pay the full amount you've borrowed, and you're left without what you've had. There were situations where people and twice overpaid real estate, such as the Rhlan family, the Rhlan family of Second Ana No. 8, at Zagreb's Rudes. Two times, if not more, they overpaid the property. And you know what's going on? They took their house and still got it done. Because the interest system is such, simply interest creates so-called interest. Infinite debt. The infinite debt cannot be returned even when interest or debt growth goes beyond your ability to pay back, the figures go to heaven, and for this very reason, colleagues from MOST have also submitted a proposal that after 10 years of statute of limitations. It is also a perfect and excellent proposal that we will warmly support and thank for that solution. And I repeat once again, someone will say that this may not be fair, etc., but if someone has failed to charge in 10 years, they won't be in the next 50 years. The aim is simply to save this society from the burden of debt that will fit us, and if this law is passed, citizens will be in a much more favourable position than they were until the adoption of this law. With one add-on, and the add-on is next. That we are seeking this partial retroactiveness of the law, that those items, or executions, are not being completed to apply this law. Because even if MOST colleagues give the best amendment, which protects real estate, unless it's retroactively applied, all the real estates that are under way go according to the old law. They're going according to the old law. Let's show people once that the interest of the citizens is above the interest of the elite. And that people like Lukovic, Prka and Hanžekovic can not be masters of life and death in our country who are actually the real creators of all laws and thus the Executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46340	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. We have one replica, dear colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46341	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Pernar, a lot of things are well said in this law, and you've explained it well, I'm surprised that you didn't propose an amendment for the damage caused by these citizens when you helped them. It was probably in this law that 70 thousand kunas were said for the involvement of the police that prevented your protests, so it would certainly be defined all, and that damage should have gone to the burden of those who caused it, i.e. You. And not upon the burden of those who were fulfilled. So you didn't help them for sure, it would have been nice useful and honorable if you'd said yes, we'd pay for what we've caused, and now we've got good wages, so we can pay for it. Everything else, I agree, this law should be passed and the best solutions should be found as proposed, but there are these 70,000 kunas in this deficit for everyone in whom the protests took place when they carried you. So you didn't just do the right thing, but you did the damage to those unfortunate people who were already in a difficult position.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46342	I thank my colleague Djakic for his replica. My colleague Pernar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46343	Mr. Djakic, what HDZ does to people is what the Chinese Communist Party does. First they shoot them and then they charge for a bullet from their relatives. That's what you do, first you get people to the edge of poverty, then you disintegrate them, then you charge them that cost of decommissioning. And then you attack me, and I stand up against that madness of yours. But I'll answer your question. Do you know why, in 95% of cases, courts don't try to charge the cost of carrying out family affairs? That is because you have already taken everything from them, because you have nothing left to take from them. Because they're on the block for huge amounts, and even if the court gives them a penalty for disrupting the 100 million kuna commission, it'll never come for payment. The second thing, many of the people you delegate have incomes that by their nature are excluded from the exercise. So someone who lives on welfare and you depose him, what kind of money are you gonna charge him for carrying out the raids? Not at all. But what you can't figure out is that we made the sacrifice the same way that you did, and the purpose of our sacrifice and theirs was to amend the executive law. And Mr. Djakic, tomorrow you will show how sincere you are and how much you care about these people. Are you one of those firing squads who asks to pay for a bullet or are you one of those who wants to help the perpetrators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46344	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. We move on to the debate, final word on behalf of the club MOST independent lists esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs, we are at the very end of the debate which was constructive of all MPs with certain exceptions but was never as agreed by the Croatian Parliament as these amendments to the Executive Act. I think we should really commend all those who gave great pain to both this debate and the beginning and the government who gave their amendments, the Ministry of Justice, of the President of the Republic, of the demographics, of all those who pointed out, of the activists who were both in the Living Wall and outside the Living Wall, we must say that yet the eyes of the public are a key problem, which is 330 thousand completed. I hope and expect the government to show itself about the amendments and that tomorrow will be the day when 330 thousand blocked and those who intend to leave Croatia already empty two-thirds will still experience hope and that the Parliament will finally be the centre of power, the centre of decision-making because the people have chosen us individual parliamentary representatives. And that tomorrow, by our vote for the first time since I am in this House, we will unanimously accept such important amendments to the law. This is not that we boast neither of the Most, nor of the HDZ, nor of the Government, but this is the current need of our people, our individuals who are being kicked out of their houses, who are being unfairly thrown out and all to support certain lobbies. The fact is that banks in this case are legally and constitutionally the Constitution, and it defends equality, but banks are the ones who make money out of our people. And this executive current law is simply... which simply vacuums everything around it and therefore we have two-thirds of Croatia empty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So who has something to protect one property in this currently proposed way before the adoption says one comprehensive law and certain other legal regulations. Decommissioning or who has something against deblockation or disunity after 10 years of blocking one person by preventing lifelong slavery, but also inheriting debts. Watch out and children inherit debts and be in a blockade that prevents and works on black, because many people whose account has been blocked simply can't achieve it, earn themselves bread, so they're in garbage cans by containers and it's visible what's going on. It is enough to walk the streets, and mainly look at our empty villages like, Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia, everyone, mountain cotara. Therefore, I think it is time for this Parliament to have that role to play. The government has a role to play, to give its opinions. The President of the Republic was very clear this time. Many people who are in the judiciary as judge Kolakusic, who made it clear what was needed, were even more extreme. But by this law, it means amending the law until the full resolution of the executive law to be consistent with our citizens, to be... Not to favor banks, lawyers' lobbys and many other lobbys like public records. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to say that by suspending the dead accounts for a year, we have to wipe out interest on people and relieve them. Only with the amendment of our fellow MPs from 20,000 to 50,000 that we need to accept 220 thousand people will be relieved. Here comes my colleague Alexic. So, a lot of people. Total of these whole changes I'm saying somewhere will affect these people. Once again, I would call on you and the government to be seen about these amendments, if there were no procedural problems, because everything is in accordance with the procedure. And all of you who have given amendments thank you both to the opposition and to the ruling. Fellow parliamentary representatives, tomorrow we rise above the political current interests, ideological differences and vote for man, for family, for the survival of people in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46346	I thank my colleague Bull for this debate. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46347	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, very briefly. Dear fellow Bull, one important thing you said. He also warned of her today and respected counterpart Varda when quoting Rule 202 of the Rules of Procedure. Since it will now have, in the name of the government, a respected Secretary of State Salapic is a key question as to whether the government will express its position on these amendments tomorrow so that they can be voted on. If the government avoids it, it wouldn't happen that this law goes really into third reading. Then all this stuff that we've been saying today is, in fact, groundless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46348	I thank my colleague, Sagar. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46349	Comrade Sagar, tomorrow is a key day for a number of citizens, we will not solve all the problems of all 330,000 blocked, but it will solve a number of problems. And this message today only based on what we're going to pay back to those who paid off the principal together and with interest that it can't be done, because many people have lost their jobs and paid even more than it is the principal. Because interest banks, of course, draw right at the beginning, and basically the principal stays until the end. Just to do that, that's all it's ever been. And that's why I'm saying that tomorrow is D-day for a clear message from this House. We expect, of course, other legislative changes and proposals from both the Government and colleagues in the Parliament, that this is enough that we have done and everything that has been done back 20 years which is bad for the citizens and in the interest of stakeholders. Because the fact that this law and the experts noticed it was not, but by analysis and sending a message that this executive law led to the emigration of Croats in unremembered epic proportions, and this is evident that the empty territory is now more empty than when they were not known by the occupiers. That with this law worse damage was done than was done by aggressors in both the Homeland War and World War II and World War I. Our villages are empty, our agricultural land is not processed, our farms and the stables are empty, everything is empty. And one of the main reasons is to agree with this law so far, and I hope that tomorrow we rise up and that tomorrow unanimously, regardless of certain disputes, we will vote these amendments to the law. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46350	I thank my colleague Bull for his reply. Next replica, distinguished colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46351	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yeah, tomorrow's a big day, tomorrow we have a chance to strike a strong blow to the executive mafia, but tomorrow's more than one technical piece. A huge job has been done today, or it will still be done. Today is a great day for the Living Wall which, i.e. A debtor's party first of all. And to me, personally today, it is to me as a native of Karlovc, the day of the city of Karlovac, and I will certainly remember this day as one of the breaking points in my career and life. It is time for Croatia to rule, to take the path of justice and order, so I also agree that it is time to set the order of power in Croatia right. That the Croatian Parliament institution is at the top, not the government, as it is constantly shown in the media. To stop degrade this Parliament. Yes, and one or the other side of Parliament is a machine that raises its hand, no matter what an individual thinks about a decision. For the record, the Parliament is the one who is creating the government, disbanding the government, setting up the defenders, disbanding the governor, moving the governor, setting up the director of the HRT, that is, all other related bodies and I'm not counting any further. There's really a lot of things that are our powers and good to know. It is therefore time for the Parliament to control not only other institutions, but also the Parliament to rule Croatia, not banks and individual interests of creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46352	I thank my colleague, Sincic. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46353	My fellow Son, I met you before I was a parliamentary representative. I was a local politician, i.e. Activist. You were younger then than you are now, you're young too. I have often spoken with you and with your intentions which until then, let's face it, were partly recognized, because you were in the presidential campaign, but were not so articulated and indeed I as an activist, though I wasn't then a member of the Living Wall and indeed, your activities, which some underestimate, while they passed these laws, were indeed the same for you this great day as for a young man. Not only for you and you are sending a message to young people, as we are at this time from the Bridge and the Assembly MPs from HDZ, from national minorities, on my other hand, irrelevant. We send a message, that it is decided in the Croatian Parliament, that it is enough, that the time has passed when lobbyists of foreign lobbyists, lobbyists of public notebooks, will decide how to work and that here is the centre of power. Tomorrow is the day, and today, most of all, except for certain debates, unfortunately, which are, I hope not, I have taken up space, but these are today, it has been shown that the Parliament is the key place where it is decided and I hope that tomorrow we will unanimously vote these amendments. And that we will go to new legislative changes, if the new law is complete and other legal changes in the interest of individuals, individuals, and especially in rural areas where our people are leaving. It's not enough to have a territory. It's not just country territory. The state is a man to live in his homeland, in his territory. And I hope today is a big day, and tomorrow will be an even bigger day and a message for young people, stay in Croatia, what you wanted at the very beginning, when you entered, an activist fight against injustice in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46354	I thank my colleague Bull for his reply. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, important State Secretary, Mr. Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46355	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I may say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as of this morning I have warned of this Rule of Procedure 201. 202. to open a debate on issues we did not discuss at meetings until today's debate. And on behalf of the government, I thank my associates and my proposer. And to Mr. Aleksic at constructive meetings that we had in the premises of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia. I also want to stress the fair purpose of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that even after the public needs to know this, that the proposer proposed this law in April 2017. The government, although Most is no longer part of the ruling coalition, continued to support the law in question and tried to adapt its amendments to the no-technical law to make the law legally enforceable in the Republic of Croatia. What we are stressing all the time is that any legal provision, which may have questionable legal enforceability, can cause problems for the Republic of Croatia in legal traffic. It's also a problem for citizens, which we all want to help with this law. So, the intensity of our debate today was not to mince these legal proposals, but, in fact, to make this legal proposal enforceable. What would be fair, if I didn't go back to the problems we had in understanding of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the role of the Government in this case when the proposing party is currently in opposition and who is the proposed promoter, at no time we've thrown ourselves into the business opportunity, so that you can submit the amendments, but on the other hand, that in your amendments that the Government is not the Proposer, we must vote in the Croatian Parliament. If we were to establish a law that would help our citizens, I believe that the harmonised text of the bill, which you are familiar with, with all the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which the Government, in its session, adopted, in this form, may be acceptable tomorrow when the vote comes. On the amendments that you have made later and that you did not agree with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or anyone who has spoken to you for a full few months, I suggest that you withdraw these amendments and that the law be passed in a statement as agreed and agreed. If not, I'm just saying that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will not be denied for this law but for those amendments that do not agree, which can bring legal and financial uncertainty above all, we have no agreement and at this point as representative of the Ministry of Justice and the Government cannot respond to your amendments, but I call on you that the fair intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is at no time distorted but that the Government has supported the law in question, the Government has no-technically regulated your bill and as such the Government can accept it in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46356	I thank Mr. Secretary of State Salapic. Mr. Pernar, did you raise your hand, what did you want, a replica or something? Then please pick up the plate in the future. Thank you very much, so you asked for a replica. We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46357	Your Honor, Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal All this time, State Secretary Salapic, or lately, wants to push through the notion that someone has some kind of unfair intentions. That's not true, the intentions are fair. Any representative who has given the amendment here and that is all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and these are not unfair intentions. And please don't insult this high house, MPs have the right to make amendments, these are not unfair intentions. They've been clearly articulated since the beginning of this debate. And I'd like to ask you to be a parliamentary representative even for a while and illegally, and I'd ask you not to insult the MPs here and this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46358	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. I don't think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure because no fellow has offended any word of it. If my interpretation is not enough, you have the right to address the Committee responsible for the breach of the Rules of Procedure which will give you the relevant interpretation. We're moving on to replicas, dear colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46359	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Salapic. I appeal once again only to the Government of the Republic of Croatia if it is possible to accept at least two amendments that I have proposed. I also have a compromise solution for that amendment where I suggested preventing the execution of real estate that is burdened with a mortgage from a contract that has unfair contractual provisions, so it can be, say, the only real estate that serves as housing. If it were such a compromise solution, I think it would be acceptable, especially when we know it's a crossover to a new executive law, and that bypass can save, say, a hundred families from doing so. But if we save one or two families, we've saved a lot already. And secondly, I suggest that the amendment that I had in connection with the conduct of the court proceedings where I suggested there should be no provision such as now that the court may postpone the exercise at the request of the prosecutor rather than accept that the court must, at the request of the prosecutor, postpone the exercise until the end of a court dispute which is brought against the believer for his unfair relationship with the debtor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46360	I thank my colleague Goran Aleksic for this replica. Next replica, distinguished colleague Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46361	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Salapic, or state secretary. My intention is to point out one important thing. So this is a big step in terms of improving the position of all those people who are going to face the problems that we've been discussing all day today here in the Parliament. However, the government must not and cannot stand on this. So the government must really pay attention to those problems that most of these 330,000 people who are blocked at the moment are facing. What with those debts, if any moratorium, if some kind of break can make it possible to stabilize the situation, I doubt that really. But consider that possibility. Secondly, at the beginning of the year, the finance minister announced a write-off of the debts of blocked citizens, a major procedure. He was rather vague the moment he was mentioned, now the time has matured for the government to come out with a very concrete and detailed proposal to whom, as well as how to write off a part of the debt. There is still a question of the costs of enforcement that is not regulated by this law. So you're still paying higher costs than you used to be the principal of the performance. We have somewhat reduced the fees of public notebooks, but the legal costs of these performances are still huge. When you look at the structure of that cost they're dominant, it needs to be reconsidered. It is necessary to bring the system into a situation that the costs of the implementation cannot exceed these principal amounts etc., etc., the transparency of interest rates, all of these are issues that we expect you to put back on the agenda very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46362	I thank my fellow Greek for the replica. State Secretary Mr. Salapic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46363	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Greek MP, I spoke about this in the morning, the government is working on a whole new executive law. So what has been accepted today, I have not doubted anyone's honest intentions on any side, I have said that there is no doubt in government's fair intentions, to accept what was agreed upon. And what's not agreed is not harmonised to leave it for consideration when what you just said comes, and that's the new whole executive law, so the intentions are clear. Secondly, as regards the write-off of debts to a certain vulnerable group of citizens, the government is working on the bill. So to be clear, today's legislative proposal has some that we're going to replace with a new, completely new law. However, the government has accepted what has been agreed with the applicant and there is no derogation from that. I kindly thanked everyone who cooperated with us to see this amendment and supplement the final text of this law the light of day. And there's no figurines in his pocket, and there's no dishonest intentions. And what you say we support, we're working on it, and it's going to be available to the public since autumn, and clearly as long as it's come with what you've been talking about, and the government's been working really hard on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46364	I thank you for your response to Secretary of State Salapic. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46365	State secretaries of the Ministry of Justice, the Croatian Parliament and parliamentary deputies are a body chosen by the people, the dignity of this Parliament the Government must respect, the promoter must respect, coordinate. And I expect that all these amendments, all the club representatives, will be given the government's opinion tomorrow. This is what we expect after this debate today, which was mostly constructive and which was above all, nothing was under the table, all the public could see. We expect you to vote on this important topic on which, the president of the Republic has formed his team and which has sent clear messages, a number of high-ranking people from the judiciary and, in particular, Mr Kolakusic, who has also proposed even stronger measures, but this is overcoming the current situation to a new one, these changes are up to a new law and we need to cover the full changes. And... We need to narrow it down to one point. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I expect from you, today you have listened to parliamentary representatives, you have amendments in accordance with the procedure and regulations of this House, the largest body from where the government came from, and this is the centre of power of decision, and we show tomorrow that we can keep to the heights of this House where we are in history, where we will not return, making decisions at the expense of our citizens and tomorrow we can send a positive message from this House that we were unique and that the Assembly is a body where they are made and debate key decisions for the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46366	Thank you, fellow Bull, thank you very much. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46367	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the current system allows the debtor who took the mortgage loan to pay back part of the debt, to be disbursed nevertheless, and to continue to be in debt after decommissioning, and to whom the bank has evicted, once he is on the street or in the household to continue to perform it, that the debt is still not recovered. Even in America, as far as I know, if you lose real estate, you're free of that real estate loan. Why? Since real estate is always given, i.e. the amount of credit is always less than the value of the property, it always goes for real estate to be worth more than the amount of the loan given. I suggest that this issue be resolved soon. As for colleagues in the Parliament, tomorrow you'll see who works for 1% and who works for 99% of society. We in the Living Wall are MPs representing 99% of citizens, not 1%. Who are you representing? You'll probably say the same thing that you represent 99%, but tomorrow you'll be able to show if it's true. It is my wish that tomorrow you, if not so far, if not from tomorrow, at least tomorrow, show that you care about up to 99% of the members of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46368	I thank my colleague Pernar. Dear fellow Secretary of State? He won't answer. [[Intruder: No.]] Next replica, dear colleague Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46369	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Salapic, so I appreciate you as an excellent lawyer, in the end we wouldn't be acting this duty, so let me say one thing, to say this layman question, I'm not a lawyer. Article 197 states: "Amendment shall be addressed to the President of the Parliament until the hearing is concluded at the session of the Parliament on the text of the Final Proposal of the Law." Article 202(1) states: “The amendment submitted within the time limit set in Article 197 of this Rules shall become an integral part of the final proposal of the Law and shall not be voted separately. ” Then paragraph 2 states: “Amendment accepted at a session of the Assembly becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law to be decided. ” And the key is paragraph 4. "If the Final Proposal for the Law has not been submitted by the Government on an amendment with which the Government has not agreed, it shall be voted separately." Now, I'm wondering if you're going to act as a proposing representative tomorrow in such a way that you won't give a stand on these amendments at all? In other words, then they won't even be voted on and you're actually saying that the final bill is the one that you agreed on before. So don't say that all the amendments that have been submitted here during the debate and which the applicant has accepted to be the final draft of the law. What exactly is the final bill? And will you use article 200 in this way to actually disable the vote and ultimately the law and all that goes into the third reading, that's the key question now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46370	I thank my colleague, Sagar. Mr. Salapic, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46371	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Sagar. We understand each other well, you've basically asked a question and you've answered it yourself. So what's agreed and agreed is agreed. And as the Croatian Parliament votes, the final bill will look like, it does not decide, so the government has given its opinion, the parliament will vote. As the amendments will be, you'll see tomorrow. I was just warning that what came late today didn't agree. You have read paragraphs 201 and 202 but you have to read it whole and you will see what the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is. That's what I warned your colleagues, but no one listened. So it is very clear that if the Government is not proposing amendments that the Government has not accepted, it is voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46372	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. I'd like to ask Mr. Schooker and Mr. Grumoy to have a conversation like this, colleague Shucker, I'd like to ask you nicely don't talk like that in this tall home. And we have on behalf of the motionary final Mr. Nicola Grmo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46373	Honorable Vice President, before we begin on the subject, it means executive law, since the final part of this debate has come down to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament itself, I will remind my colleague Shuker who says we don't know things. What would happen to her, for example. Proposer of a certain amendment by counterpart Alexic and that he gave the amendment hypothetically that he had given the amendment and that the government by 12 o'clock tomorrow did not know whether we would accept the amendment or not? So she can't practically be obvious. What in that case? And we had one case when we were legislators, it's the Law on Local Elections, when counterpart Maro Kristic gave the amendment, the government didn't show itself about it, it became an integral part of the law. So, for the first time, what you're doing is precedent, but it doesn't matter. I don't want to talk about it. I don't want to talk about it anymore. But please don't tell me these are different interpretations and don't tell me I have no idea. When we had the situation that the promoter of the Club of Representatives of the Most, that was the proposed amendment to the Law on Local Elections and that the Government had not been manifested, it became an integral part of the law, so don't tell me that I have no idea what I'm talking about. I know very well what I'm talking about, there are different interpretations, you're most of them, we're going to resort to that interpretation, and that's fine. What's interesting is that fellow Babic has proposed a good amendment. And when he saw what was happening, that the government would have to manifest itself on these amendments, he now withdrew the amendment. Just because the government, means it doesn't matter to improve this law, doesn't mean that we help people, but it's important that we don't put the government in an awkward position that it has to be obvious about the amendments that otherwise have to be accepted because they go in favour of our citizens. Is that politics? Is this politics, is it a struggle for the interests of our citizens? Or is it cheap courting the government and the Prime Minister? This Parliament here is the center of political power, it's above government. And every MP has the right to make an amendment and improve the legal proposal. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say, I was happy and satisfied because we had an agreement but now I am very disappointed again because we once again bowed down to certain lobbys, again we bowed to the great leader. I call on the President of the Republic of Croatia who sent an open letter to the prime minister to call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to show itself about all the amendments addressed during this debate. This is an important question, Croatian citizens deserve it, and if you are already going this way to mince these changes, then you have to show yourself about them. Let the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so much respect this high House, all these MPs and colleagues, here's fellow Alexic, there's no need for you to pray to the Government, not the Government Proposer. The proposer is the Most Representatives' Club, the government only needs to be shown about the amendments. Let the government be manifest, let them be rejected or accepted. It's very simple. They have until tomorrow, the question is, I can meet. The question is important. If they don't meet, it means that some of these amendments don't suit them and don't fit, although I repeat, during the debate, we only had two big complaints. He's one of his colleagues, Shuker, who's involved in this if he's returned, knew the principal where we suggested he couldn't execute the only real estate, he thinks it's wrong because the banks won't give credit then, and we had a big remark from a colleague of the coat of arms who's against this 10-year-old deadline. Although it is a general agreement, you also agreed, colleagues from HDZ with this, that if a 10-year-old loan, or if the debt cannot be charged within 10 years, it is obvious that it is not chargeable. And I talked to my colleague Alexic, and he says he's totally fine with it. So, there are no big objections, but the government does not want to show itself that you are then tomorrow, regardless of what these are good amendments, and regardless of what fellow Babic has made a good amendment, he is now withdrawing it just as we do tomorrow about it, so that you may reject any amendments that have come from parliamentary deputies. That's underestimating this tall house. That's underestimating our work, a lot of MPs have put a lot of effort here, written amendments, tried to help our citizens, but don't think people aren't watching this. I've received a lot of messages, so they recognize this good intention to help people. And if you don't have a concrete argument why is something bad, then why are you going to blow it? So what's the ultimate intention of it? What's the ultimate intention, who's behind it? Tomorrow we'll see my colleague Shuker, will you mind mined? If the government is manifest, it will be an integral part of the law, if we accept it, we have already said what we intend to accept. If the government doesn't show up, then you'll have a chance to vote on the amendments, so we'll see how you vote on certain amendments that you said today were of quality. I just asked my colleague Boric, here's Shuker said he disagreed with this, what about the others? He says here's what we're gonna say no to. Well, we'll all say no. Why will you refuse everything? So what's the reason you're gonna say no? If no discussion lasts this morning from 10 o'clock, and no comment has been made, and now we're going to say no. So what for? I once again appeal to your conscience, I urge you to look at the presentation of our colleague Hrvoje Runtic from this morning which has not spoken of the solutions. The solutions were talked about all day. He was talking about the state in which our citizens are, talking about that spiral of evil in which they are. He was talking about moving young people out of Croatia. I ask you to take a look at this one more time and support the amendments for which, in the debate, if the government is not being shown, for which you did not have any objections in the debate. Support these amendments. Don't be a fellow Shuker, I respect your attitude, you have that attitude. Discard this amendment, do not accept it. But these amendments you had no objections to why you would reject them? What's the point of that? Well, there are other amendments to fellow Shuker. So here's to this 10-year-old guy, you said you were okay with it. Well, then, here I expect you and the rest of the HDZ representatives to support it. I expect you to support that. I can repeat the key points of this law. So other than what we've agreed with the government and what the agreement has been reached about, then it's been said that these are cosmetic changes, that we need to go to full changes to the executive law. There are very good things that will help our citizens. But there are also many good things that came during the debate both from fellow Alexic and other MPs, from fellow Lovrinovic, but also from these amendments. One of the key things that we want to change to new amendments is the protection of the only real estate, i.e. we want to prevent the implementation of a property that is burdened by a pawned law because of a loan agreement in the event that the principal credit is already paid to the creditor. That's the amendment my colleague Shucker disagrees with. And he doesn't have to support it, but we have other amendments. In accordance with the requirements of the professional public, our own and other representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we increase the amount of the principal which is why only the property cannot be completed with these originally agreed 20,000 kunas. President Colinda sent it and asked it to be 50,000 kuna. ... Well, the president said [[You can't hear it.]] Well, President, I don't think I've offended the President's institution in any way. [[Intruding Brkić: Comrade Schuker, please don't throw away.]] So, the president asked to increase to 50,000 kuna and that was the amendment of counterpart Alexic we supported. So the HDZ will be against the proposal tomorrow, namely the request of the President of the Republic in a letter sent to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Did I say it right now? So you'll be against that proposal tomorrow. In such a situation, there are about 220 000 people, and in cases where the principal is more than 50,000 kuna, she asked her colleague Ljubica what we're going to do, and in the case of a real estate deal, we agreed to offer a replacement accommodation solution for 18 months, that the state finds replacement accommodation or that it pays, means rent. Another key thing that MOST will resolve is the deblockation of long-term blocked perpetrators, the prerequisite for suspending the fact that demand is not charged. Long-term blocked have been completely excluded from economic relations in the country. So who thinks it's not like that? Does anyone think that's not the case? Often, they can't start a working relationship because they get paid as soon as they sit on the bill and turn to the black labour market, and most of them go out of Croatia. So, even as consumers, they don't contribute to the growth of consumption and economy, and these long-term continuous blockades result in the accumulation of new debts and the creation and the evil spiral of debt that many will never get away with. Therefore, these proposed MoST amendments prevent the accumulation of debt by disproportionate interest growth when the performance cannot be implemented. And we have this situation, that if the bill is dead for a year and more that we've proposed to suspend the execution and of course it can be restarted, but then there's no more interest that was. So we allow people to finally breathe. So who in their right mind can be against it? Who can be well-intentioned against it? And why would you colleagues from HDZ if the government were to be, I expect the government to be manifest. I call on the president to engage, to seek the government and prime minister's testimony. If the government doesn't show up, why would you refuse that amendment? In addition, MOST also proposes an absolute limitation period that is this deadline that I was talking about and about which all MPs here agreed that this is a good solution except for their colleagues. I understand him, he's a lawyer. And the SDP doesn't have to support it here, even though it would help a large number of people. And yet I think that SDP is the Social Democratic Party, that they care more about the interests of blocked workers than the interests of lawyers and public notaries. If the position of a fellow coat of arms prevails, then support these other amendments. If that lawyer's vision prevails. So do you know how much we're gonna help with this? A person can't be blocked for life. It's a trauma that affected about 300 thousand debtors, and every man, I said this morning, has a family, has children. And that's where we get about a million people. Well, dear representatives, a million people may be able to make their situation easier. We won't help everyone, but we may make it easier, but we may make it easier for our colleague, Boric. What? A million people, so if we're looking at it, it means their kids are with the families they're connected to. If you have someone in the family who's blocked and who's got problems. So if there's anything else you feel for me, and you're having a hard time with that man. When someone in your family is in a difficult situation. I have such compassion for my colleague, Boric. In fact, a 10-year-old by the Mandatory Relations Act has been given a long time to charge the procuring officer for his claim, if such demand is remunerated. And we all agreed to that. We all agreed, except for our colleagues, the coat of arms. If the SDP rejects this amendment, then support the others. Support the other amendments that benefit our citizens. And in the end, I will not use all the time, as colleague Pernar and Bulj for his debate, at the end of the day, please, or, please, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, ask the President, to ask the Prime Minister and the Government to show themselves about these amendments. And in case that doesn't happen, it's going to be a sign that the government isn't ready for this kind of application, but I hope they're prepared for parliamentary representatives, so they're going to support those amendments for which they today, in the debate, didn't have any single objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46374	I thank my esteemed colleague, Nikola Grumoji, for this final word. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46375	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear comrade Grmoi, congratulations on the proposed changes. Congratulations to HDZ too, which has been very constructive until today. I hope that these proposals that were during the debate will be reviewed during the night and morning, perhaps some of them will be accepted. But I have to say, this debate is actually very good. No matter what kind of disagreements, some elevated tones. I think this was a quality debate, and that's how it should be discussed, every time, not like when we talked about associations and seals, when we discussed nothing for four hours. It is not good, and this debate today, although it has lasted a long time, was nevertheless constructive, good and what pleases me, despite the fact that it may not all be accepted, which may not even be accepted, by the amendments that are days after agreeing with the Government, I hope that the law will eventually be accepted. So whatever he may be, he'll be better than the Executive Act, after the amendments have been made, than he was before those amendments were passed. And that's still something and I'm certainly asking the government once again to consider some important amendments, even if they look a little bit radical, but it's a bypass to the new executive law, and some of these amendments can really save families from mirage, and that's the most important thing in the whole story. Well, I thank everyone for a really constructive discussion and mostly friendly tones, with some disagreements, so that's normal, I guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46376	I thank my colleague Alexic. My colleague Grmo's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46377	Vice President, my colleague Alexic, I absolutely agree, this is one of the better discussions we could see here in this House. I thank even those MPs who disagreed, because their disagreement was justified, justified, there was no personal insult either by colleagues of Shucker or by colleagues of the coat of arms. So in that sense, I agree absolutely with you, and I'm glad that the Bridge is exactly the driver of these changes, that the law, as you have said, will be better than it has been so far, and I also believe that these amendments, some of which you have proposed, will also be accepted or as an integral part of the law, if the government is manifested, I think that there is time or during the vote on amendments. So this is one example of how we need to conduct the debate and these are the real issues to deal with this House of Commons. So this is the existence of our citizens and an attempt to stop these evictions from Croatia, these negative trends that are obvious, so that in this direction the Club of Representatives of Mosta will continue its initiatives. We know that it will be difficult to push these initiatives here in the Parliament, because we often have a subprime relationship with the Croatian Parliament, but we will continue. And thank you all especially for your contribution and quality amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46378	I thank my colleague Grumoja for his reply. The next replica, distinguished counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46379	Thank you very much. Here's my first replica today, I wasn't answering. I saw you in three hours and five minutes here, you were sitting there, and you were supposed to get involved for the quorum. You didn't want to squeeze. Do you realize what you're doing? So this is the first thing I remember in Croatia's history, at least as far as I'm concerned, means that one government accepts tomorrow two laws that suggest opposition. I don't remember any summons that he accepted any. As far as I can remember. And we're doing everything that we can to ensure that in the government's professional services and those proposings, it was part of the agreement and guarantees while you were in power, etc. We truly want to keep our promise and listen to you all. And for the first time today, I've talked about you, and I said, let's make a deal with the Department of Justice to resolve the issue of three amendments. Instead of doing it, you spend all day, talking at a pay phone and saying the same thing over and over again. So you can't just handle it with the secretary of state. There are professional services that can work something out. So we can assure you that it can't go that way and that it's not a procedure. And you keep saying that you can do whatever you want as an opposition, but the government has to listen to you whenever you want. Yeah, 'cause you didn't want to get involved. On the other hand, we have a blackmail we won't do it by constitutional judges unless there's an investigative commission. Since when does this opposition run the state? I didn't see it anywhere. So let the government have its own elements, and it was very correct on this matter and on the international agreements that we talked about on this issue as well. And instead of solving it in a peaceful and good atmosphere, you just keep saying the same thing all day, instead of solving it with the government's professional services. And now you leave a burden on the government so you have all summer to do it. So let this country run by the government and most of it in this House. And you weren't worthy of joining the quorum today because you gave yourself that importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46380	I thank my colleague, Boric. My colleague Grmo's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46381	Dear counterpart Boris, I suppose you will leave me so much right as an opposition representative that I do not engage in quorum or not vote or vote or hold back, but what does the truth should be said, 13 amendments to the government are all accepted. counterpart Babic came here at 2.30 p.m. and accepted his amendment from me and from counterpart Mira Simic that he would now withdraw him just so the government would not manifest itself on other amendments. So on our side, too, I am not a slow constructive on the part of the Ministry of Justice and on the part of the government, but let me say that we were absolutely constructive towards everyone and to the government and to all the parliamentary representatives in this assembly. And I won't let you claim it was different. And whether I'm going to get involved or not at some other point, that's absolutely irrelevant. So there is a ruling majority that must be present and that is the task of the majority. This is irrelevant because we accepted a colleague from Boric to touch an amendment from the government even the amendments that came from the HDZ Club of Representatives and you asked me a question and now you're gone, it's also an incorrect colleague, Boric. So we have shown absolute constructiveness and it is because of the truth and because of those people who are watching and doing this to the Croatian public should be made loud and clear. And I'm not going to let you claim that we're destroying something or that we were not constructive in this debate. Absolutely incorrect, we were very constructive and all the suggestions that were quality we respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46382	I thank my colleague Grumoja for his reply. Next replica, distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46383	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask my colleague Grmoy a very important question, and I also trust many citizens, especially as regards this part of the amendment to the Implementing Law on Real Estate. We are interested in whether the bridge will be for the new enforcement law to apply to executive procedures already under way and not completed or only to new enforcement procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46384	I thank my colleague Pernar. My colleague Grmo's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46385	Comrade Pernar, we absolutely have a great desire to help Croatian citizens and we want for all these changes that you and some of them have said to get the consent of the people sitting here because there is a key in them. And you and I can want whatever it is, but it's not gonna happen. Here's a colleague Alexic says maybe some suggestions are too radical to the right extent said by a colleague, maybe some suggestions are radical such as perhaps the impression of some, he didn't say it as his own opinion. You said your Bridge proposals were moderate. We'd be much more radical, you found some scale. And when we agree with the Ministry of Justice and HDZ, some say it's a camel. And even from the HDZ and the president's ranks, they needed a lot of the president's demands were the most radical. Now is that the president's position or is it some PR's attitude or what's next, I don't know. I believe it is and that the president wants to help Croatian citizens. And I don't see why the government wouldn't be showing itself if the government wasn't already showing itself why those proposals we agree on wouldn't support, why don't we support our colleague Alexic's proposal. Here was the request of the President of the Republic and HDZ will reject that request tomorrow. He'll refuse that request. Then why all this? Then why the round table at the president's? The president is talking about some solutions, you suggest a solution we think is good and we agree with you and even we could write that amendment, but not you thought of it, we said it was a fellow Alexic proposal and we accept it. So we were so correct, we could write all these amendments that they were like our amendments because we meant for yours, we were in meetings we knew at the Justice Department where you said it, we knew about your intentions. We were so correct, and he said that's what his colleague Alexic suggested, we think he's good, and now it's not good for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46386	I thank my colleague Grumoja for his reply. Please be careful on time. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46387	Comrade Grmoy, we must indeed all of us here who are in the assembly are those who participated in the debate today be proud, but also at one point of this pride that it is decided here, that here is the center of political power, is the people's representatives who choose and the government must submit and execute what most say in the Parliament. And in this case we've all stopped together regardless of the ideological differences we discussed today on these topics. In some small things, we disagreed, perhaps even on some larger ones, but the fact is that it is disappointing to withdraw amendments to the Final Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Law by counterpart Babic. If the intention is to withdraw his amendment that is in line with the proposal of the Most Independent Lists as it is consistent with fellow Alexic, talking to everyone who has given their amendment and no one has any intention today except to fight for people who are in serious trouble and the whole system is blocked in that chain of circuits where they pull everything towards the bottom because people simply can't live or operate a normal system of payments but are our people in containers that were unimaginable sometimes going to be in containers. Unimaginable. So how do you explain that withdrawal of the amendment that was arranged for the Proposer? And indeed, the President of the Republic, the Government, the public, the professional public, statistical indicators that 56 thousand people went to Germany last year, we'll see how it will be in other statistical indicators and that we think here after the pressure. Who? We're out of pressure. Let us rise and support this proposal and that is a message to young people that there is hope in this Parliament and this country. We represent the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46388	I thank my colleague Bull for this replica. Answer, dear comrade Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46389	Dear colleague Bulj, well no, well, here I think there is no dispute at all that there has been a great degree of consensus here in the Croatian Parliament, one quality debate. As I was saying, just about 4:00 a.m., a colleague of the coat of arms made a disagreement, the confusion began. I'm before that as if I knew what would be said that despite the consensus, I hope that the pressures of certain legal and public record lobbys will not begin. And look at the devil, so after my colleague Grbin stepped forward, the confusion started on the other side, and then the HDZ colleagues made an observation about some others, not that one, but here's my colleague Schuker on this proposal that I was talking about. But what is important, the government can manifest itself on all these amendments, there is plenty of time. And on the amendment requested by the President of the Republic, I think that would be fine, fair and fair. And if the government doesn't show up, then let the president tomorrow live broadcast, let all these completed and blocked citizens, all those who are hit, all those who talk about how something should be done and when the Most offers a solution, then the problem. When fellow Alexic offers a solution, that's the problem. When fellow Lovrinovic offers a solution, the problem is. So what do we have from the story? We talk all the time, we talk, we complain that the situation in Croatia is bad, as the young leave, we repeat the same stories always and do nothing. Let's help people. Well, here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna support Vlad's whole proposal if it's better than this. I want to believe I can make a better bill. So, fellow Fighter, what's funny? Well I don't know what's funny, this is strong, this is very... A serious topic with my involvement with my colleague, Boric, has nothing to do with it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is not a topic, colleague Boric, colleague Boric you can laugh but to Croatian citizens, believe me, it is not funny, those who are blocked, those who have dead accounts, those who work black, those who go to Ireland and Germany, colleagues Boric to them, fellow Boric is not funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46390	I thank my colleague Grumo for not answering. As you can see, 30 seconds you've broken time and you've also been 20 seconds past, I'm asking you to really keep an eye on the timing. Next replica, distinguished colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46391	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You told a colleague, and I will quote: “The question is, Can the Government meet tomorrow and give an indication? ” The question is, can the government meet tomorrow? So here we are talking about amendments that will not improve, but change the lives of blocked people. So 330 thousand people, you said yourself, almost a million people affected by this and we're wondering if the government can meet tomorrow? Well, the government has to meet tomorrow. Not tomorrow, the government has to meet tonight if it has to. So I don't know if we really think 4.5 million people in this country are working and living to wonder if the government can meet or if the government would have to meet to actually not ask any of these 4.5 million people anything in life. Here I call on the government to meet tonight if they didn't do it themselves to read these amendments because we're not talking about nonsense here, but we're literally talking about things that are going to change the lives of at least 330 thousand blocked and not saying that it's a figure of almost a million people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46392	I thank my colleagues Ninčević-Lesandric for the replica. And my colleague Grumo's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46393	Comrade Lesandric, this is the first item of the agenda, I think we have another six. I'll be here until we discuss these points. Although I must be honest, since we've been working on this executive law, I've only been preparing for this point. The colleagues will likely discuss the Podlnjak and the others more. So we'll be here by after midnight. And you said rightly, the government should meet tonight after midnight, at 3 p.m. because of the situation in which Croatian citizens are located, and not to laugh as a fellow Boric, but to meet at 3 p.m., if necessary, if not some in Zagreb. Now move towards Zagreb and discuss these amendments and give an opinion. If the amendment of counterpart Alexic will help 5 people, and will help much more to go now wherever they are, to head towards Zagreb now and to meet. If these amendments of ours, I assure you, will help a huge number of people, let them go now, if Minister Oblished is in Dubrovnik, let him leave Dubrovnik now, let him leave Dubrovnik right now, it will take her five hours to Zagreb, or they will have phone sessions. Let them head towards Zagreb right now. We're voting tomorrow probably at noon, until then the government can be seen, they can meet in the morning. I can meet in the morning. And they say professional services, so I guess professional services watch all day what we're saying here, this morning from 10:00, so there's the secretary of state. The secretary of state's been here since this morning, he knows every little thing we've brought up in the debate. Let them now go and discuss this and give their opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46394	Thank you very much to my esteemed colleague, Grumoja, and thank you for respecting the weather this time. The next replica is a distinguished colleague of Shucker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46395	I'm really interested in my colleague, Mr. Grmoe, whether or not the parliamentary representative has the right to express his opinion. So I'm well-intentioned, somewhere at half 12 I'm warning you I'm trying to collegiately, however you like, so you can sit down with the government's representatives and agree these things on your amendments. Invoking, just a little bit, please, referring to the Rules of Procedure, and nothing else. If you look at the phonogram of my debate, then you'll see that it didn't go against this law at any time. I well-intentioned you on paragraph 4, Section 5 of the Law, well-intentioned. But you've turned it around and you're calling it that. I have not been taught in such a way of working in this House. I've been taught opposing opinions, argument to argument. And in that way, I'm willing to argue with every debate, but look at my colleague, Grmoi, if you in Article 202(5). "If the final draft of the law has not been submitted by the Government, on an amendment with which the Government has not agreed, it is voted separately." And that is what I have been telling you all along. And you now assure me of something, I have not even expressed my opinion, but I have read to you the provision of the Rules of Procedure by which we all work until we change it, it is simply for us the Holy Scriptures, as we say. And so, my debate went that way all day, but you're doing it one way, so I won't use the hard term, you've turned it all upside down. So, one well-intentioned review, read my phonogram of my replica of colleague Mrak-Taritash. And none of the colleagues here today have slowed down the integrated text of the law that you have agreed with the government. None of my colleagues. My colleagues simply troubled the provisions of the amendments you submitted, and so you could sit down with the government and arrange it. And you don't need to call anyone, you don't need to call anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46396	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Grmo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46397	Comrade Shucker, at no point did I dispute that you were constructive in your debate, I even thanked you if you listened well to me, at an argument here when I was speaking. You and your colleagues, the coat of arms. So, at no point did I say that you were in any way incorrect and unconstructive, at no time. What's my opinion is that during this debate, amendments have arrived that we don't even know if we're going to accept yet. And that the Government should give an opinion on these amendments and that I am very much prepared tonight when Prime Minister Plenkovic has me on the phone, has my number, whenever he calls me, or anyone he doesn't want with me, any of my colleagues, here's my colleague Miro Simic, who is such a peaceful Slavonic, I am a temperamental Dalmatian. So whenever you call him, tonight, we're ready to come and talk about these amendments. Not just ours, but any of our colleagues. It means anytime. There is also a number from Mira Simic, prime minister. And that's not at all controversial. We have shown the maximum of constructiveness and desire to change this law and to help the citizens and I have not disputed as you claim, your constructiveity at no time, nor have I said anything bad about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46398	I thank my colleague Grumoja for his reply. Next replica, distinguished colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46399	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear comrade Grmoja, so here we are all day to discuss, I must tell you that yesterday I was with your colleague Simic on the show and we have indeed all said on the show that we agree with the proposal that you have therefore initiated but, together with the Government and with the Government's amendments, I have improved, and simply what I have to say, I am surprised that this afternoon these amendments and this subsequent mind of you as a proposing. So, having had enough time, the situation regarding the completed and blocked has not changed from yesterday to today, so there was enough time when the government was working with the bill to discuss all this with the government. So what I'm saying is, the bill the government has given amendments to, which has agreed with you, and came before us representatives on benches, is really an improvement compared to the current Executive Act, we have an exception to the performance of a property, we have an increase in the inexplicable work of permanent income to 3/4 which is a major shift for our citizens because they have more money left to live. Therefore, it is also exempt from the enforcement of the principal or the sale of real estate if the principal is less than 20 thousand kuna, but the tool of the court is given that, even if that amount is greater than 20 thousand, it itself decides by some criteria, if it does not achieve the purpose of not going to the real estate. So, what I want to say is, it's done the best possible in cooperation with the government at this point, I think that these proposals today have had a good intention but you haven't been able to address all the consequences of such amendments. It wouldn't be good to do more damage than good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46400	I thank my colleague Maria Jelkovac. My colleague Grmo's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46401	Dear colleagues, I absolutely agree with you. So the bill, these were our proposals that were in line with HDZ, are absolutely much better than this executive law we've had so far. But dear colleagues, you must admit that the expectations of the public, the professional public, the President of the Republic, the accomplished, are blocked much larger than what you have agreed to, much greater. And you have now sent me at the end of the message that what the President of the Republic required was not feasible, because you said the amendments you gave today and which you accepted are good intentions. But he didn't think about the consequences. You've practically sent a message to the president of the state that he's a dilettante, that he's looking for what he's going to do on some other side is cause more damage. So you sent a message to Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic to the president of the Republic of Croatia that he was a populist. No, that's what you said. Because you said the proposals and the amendments that we accepted here and instructed us not to consider whether they would cause damage on the other side. So we have a situation that HDZ MPs have just told the President of the Republic that she's a populist who doesn't know what she's doing or what she's proposing. Public expectations colleagues and our citizens are much bigger than what we as two clubs, i.e. two policy options, have managed to agree. You have to be aware of that. This isn't enough for people. And I expect the government of the Republic of Croatia, at the request of the President, to be seen on our proposals, and if the government is not shown, then I expect that you, as parliamentary representative, will support these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46402	I thank my colleague Grumoja for his reply. Next replica, distinguished counterpart Hrvoje Runtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46403	Thank you. Nikola my, so I'm here for you in this surreal sector came from the real sector and I heard all sorts of things here today. And my assessment is about this, let my colleague Ivana correct me, this could have ended within two hours. My conclusion is somehow, I heard that proverb a long time ago, and I remember it my whole life, that “whoever wants to find a way, and whoever doesn’t, finds an excuse. ” And that's what this whole story comes down to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46404	I thank my colleague Runtic. My colleague Grmo's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46405	I, my colleague Runtic, or my Hrvoje, as you told me, my Nikola wanted to believe that it wasn't. I still see with most MPs here that they want to help Croatian citizens. I see it. No, no, I'm taking it seriously, no matter how much I've had these remarks, I see it both with my colleague Shuker and my colleague Jelkovac and the other colleagues. I also see it with colleagues from the SDP and with colleagues of Hrelja and with everyone who discussed it here today. I am convinced that my SDP colleagues as Social Democrats will support, will Miro support, that they will support our amendments if they are not voted as a full law. I still believe the government of the Republic of Croatia will manifest itself. I'm convinced the SDP won't go in favor of legal and public record lobbys. I am convinced that fellow Shuker will understand that we must help our citizens, that banks can be charged, that this is only about the only real estate when the principal is returned, and there are other options for how to return what is given. I am convinced that all MPs will recognise the quality proposal of counterpart Alexic, who was also a proposal from the President of the Republic, and that what my colleague Pernar said, that a moderate approach to MOST would be accepted in this House of Commons. Because this isn't, so no radical or populist approach. This is an approach that will really unblock a large part of our people and allow them to stay in Croatia. People are dying out. Croatia is dying out. My Metkovic had a positive growth primarily thanks to that pool from Herzegovina and that's good. As a teacher at school, I probably wouldn't have a captain if the children from Herzegovina hadn't come to Metkovic's school.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46406	I thank my colleague Grumoja for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46407	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague of Grmoy, therefore the purpose of this parliamentary debate, is to crystallise the final draft of the law. That's defined by the Rules of Procedure. A lot of MPs and clubs here have been making amendments. And they are, in fact, under the rules of the Rules of Procedure, because the Proposer accepts them on them, they have become the final draft of the law. However, the Honorable State Secretary when I asked him directly he said no, is not the final draft law defined by this parliamentary debate and amendments. He is defined by an agreement that has been agreed with the government and the proposing that takes place outside this assembly nowhere else. This is the right thing to propose. On the one hand, however, it is not quite right for the Croatian Parliament to ignore the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that the final draft law is not really being passed here, and of course in accordance with Article 202 it will be a vote and I do not even share the optimism of fellow Alexic or your optimism. Because I think the Croatian government has already taken its stand by saying that the final bill is the one that was agreed outside this assembly. So no amendment tomorrow's ruling majority will accept. Because if he were a different representative of the government, he'd say it out loud and clear. So the final bill of law is not what we discussed today in line with all the amendments. The final bill of law was passed outside this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46408	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46409	Well, I think a colleague has been sent a message that it doesn't matter the assembly procedure, and the assembly procedure is as long as the debate takes place so that they can be given an amendment. And what that means for all the amendments that I'm going to make, maybe now some amendment will come while I'm talking. It's a great amendment to improve this law. And what's the message? The government has not shown itself about the amendment, it cannot be an integral part of the law, although it is a good amendment. Here's a fellow S.H.I.E.L.D. writes a good amendment that will improve the law. And the government didn't manifest itself, it can't be an integral part of the law, and HDZ won't vote for that amendment because the government hasn't shown itself, so what kind of approach is that? So it's more important to us than to help Croatian citizens. And again, I remind you, my colleague Babic came to me in 2.35 with the HDZ amendment, and we discussed this with him here, saying, excellent amendment, we accept that he would now withdraw this amendment, just so the government doesn't have to manifest itself on our amendments. Well, President of the Parliament, you are by the Constitution, the second man of this state. Another man of this country, after the president. You're changing the president, if God forbid what happens to her. Isn't this the humiliation of the Croatian Parliament, that MPs can't give amendments while the debate is under way. The government does not want to show itself, and now the HDZ Club will reject all these amendments even though there are good amendments. What are we doing from the Croatian Parliament? What kind of message are we sending? I urge again, the President of the Republic, to send an urgent message to the Prime Minister, that the government meet again tonight. If he can't tonight, have him meet in the morning and give an opinion on these amendments that were handed over here during the debate. The task of you as President of the Parliament is to refer all amendments to the government. Tell them right now, right now, this debate is about to be concluded and let the government be aware of these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46410	Thank you. Since the debate is over, I am closing it. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the executive law, second reading, P.Z. Number 6. Proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Most. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I've got two hands in the air, so please, colleague Grumoja and colleague Lovrinović. First of all, my colleague Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46412	Your Honor. Given the new information that's come up, I'm looking for a ten-minute break just before we get to this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46413	Okay. A colleague of Lovrinović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46414	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. For the same reasons on behalf of the Club of Representatives Change Croatia I am looking for a break of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46415	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46416	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I'm looking for a break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46417	People, please, so give some colleagues and colleagues, so be polite just that please. I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46418	Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a break for the same reasons as the previous three clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46419	Thank you. Here you go, pal Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46420	In the name of the Living Wall for the same reason we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46421	We have five requests for a break. Stand by exactly 12.00 hours. Excuse me, Comrade Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46422	The HNS Club is looking for a break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46423	Six, good. At 12:00, we'll proceed. Please be there. It's 11:00. 40 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Honored counterparts Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46425	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like a little meeting to be fuller because it's a subject, meaning the topic we're going to be voting on right now. As far as new information is concerned, that the Minister of Justice has announced the full amendments to the Implementing Law means that they can't be before a year, even longer, and we all know it well, and it's known to the entire public, a lot of it is written in the media, we've talked a lot about here in this assembly, in what conditions our blocked citizens, about what kind of spiraling evil, spiraled debt is doing. And we simply can't allow us as Parliamentarians to wait so long for our citizens to help them. This bill, which has been agreed with the HDZ, will help partly our citizens but not enough. They're all wondering why we've given the amendments, so since the entire public after this bill came out, these changes are good but they're not enough, we need stronger, more radical changes. And what did we do? We were extremely constructive. We have supported every quality proposal from fellow MPs in this assembly, one amendment from the SDP. We supported the amendment by colleagues Alexic, who were known by the Ministry of Justice, which was in fact the request of the president of the Republic to the prime minister who organised the round table and sent an open letter mentioning that this amount of 20,000 to 50,000 capitals was increased, meaning in the implementation of the single property. counterpart Lovrinovic also sent a request in a letter to the Prime Minister of the Republic that each party should bear its share of the cost in the process. And what the HDZ does, it says we didn't make those amendments, the government didn't manifest itself even though it could, could have been manifested last night, could have been manifested this morning. A state secretary from the Department of Justice's professional service sat there all day long. And they could be obvious, so the government could manifest itself on certain amendments. We've been talking about these amendments since the morning. On the amendments to the Most. Believe me, what we suggested would save many, those people who were protesting today here in Mark's square. People can't be blocked for life. And with these amendments sent by MOST, it interrupts. Ten years is a limitation period, if something isn't charged in 10 years it won't even be charged. In addition, we suggested that if the bill was dead for a year and more, or more than a year, to suspend the execution. It can be restarted but if you run those interest rates before it's gone. So do you know how much we'll save? Do you know how much we're gonna stop them from going to Ireland, Germany and other countries? These changes we've given through the amendments aren't cosmetic changes, these are serious changes but they're not radical. counterpart Alexic said, these are moderate changes and colleagues Sincic, these are moderate changes that will help people. Sincic says yesterday I'd be even more radical, but we had to make a rational proposal. Please, everyone, support this. If HDZ representatives are today against these amendments, written by the President of the Republic, it will be against her request and will send her a message that she is unserious, that the President of the Republic is a populist, such a message will be sent by dear colleagues. And I am convinced that the SDP will be dominated by the social democracy, that it will not overcome the wishes of lawyers and other lobbys to conduct the procedures for years without charging anything, that people are working on black or leaving Croatia. Who are we working for? For those who have enough money to go on vacation or skiing or for those who collect money to leave Croatia? To whom do we work dear colleagues today? Let's support these amendments. If there is an amendment that doesn't suit you for this or that reason so don't vote for that amendment but to reject it all shows that there is no, that there is no real will to solve the problem, there is no real will. And this problem is being delayed and our country is dying out, we're having a demographic breakdown of dear colleagues. And once again I appeal to your conscience, let's help our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46426	Thank you. Second in line debate, distinguished colleague Ivan Lovrinović, Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46427	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I asked for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia because I really felt important right now for all of our citizens. I'm more difficult to read letters that arrive believe me. The other day, two older people were in front of me crying, begging. What do you do, how do you help these people? That's why this is an important question. MOST has rightly raised this question. And while I was with them at the Most, we talked about it, we started it. But yesterday I was an overjoyed man because all of it until 4:00 I felt a positive atmosphere that we would all support it. I can't believe things are getting complicated right now and the question is, why is it getting complicated? Well, yesterday we all claimed that it was a common problem, that we wanted to save our people, citizens, so on. small people, ordinary people. Their fates are being politicized today. However, yesterday, in my speech and response here, Secretary of State Salapic felt, I recognized that there might be problems. Dear gentlemen, dear citizens, I know you're looking at us tensely all over Croatia. These are important moments. You chose us to solve your problems, this is a key problem. You can't live with debt like this. 330,000 citizens are in debt slavery. In the 21st century. I remind you that 7 million and 800 thousand executions have been launched since 2011. This is the land of execution. And now what's the problem? Is he formal or content? Gentlemen, if he's formal, let's say the government wasn't on time familiar with this problem, it takes her a few days to consult, I propose here for 7 days, let's agree on a week, let the government reconsider these amendments and meet next Friday to just vote on it. If it's a content problem, then let's just say it honestly, or you'll see who resists and the content means, we don't want to help you, we're on the side of those who are exhausting you, who are oppressing you, and that's the problem. What's the significance of my amendment? That's what my colleague Grumoja said, correctly, very correctly, and thank you very much. He's financially important, gentlemen. Why? Because 70% of the costs automatically cut. What does that mean in translation? Any debtor he tries to execute, the executive can hire experts, lawyers, this, this, that, but he'll have to pay for it himself. And therefore, he will not do it, and the doer, he will have ordinary expenses. You see, there's this interest that obviously someone doesn't want to refuse or that money leaks into the pockets where it leaks. 330 people mean, plus family members are waiting for a solution to this problem. I'm surprised by the reaction, but I have to say, distinguished colleagues and colleagues of the SDP. You're the biggest opposition party. This is a couple of excellent social democratic issues, a social democratic problem. Please, support us in this, in this request, or to adopt an amendment today or if not, within a week until we consider the government, I really ask you not so much for myself, but for thousands of people, hundreds of thousands of people who suffer for it. Let's get back to the common cause, get back to the common problem. But if both are rejected, so that our amendments are not adopted today, or that the week will not wait for the government to reconsider, I have nothing else, but to call the entire opposition, but also those who think differently in the ruling to boycott the work of the Parliament, to leave the assembly, and even not to come after the summer vacation. It's not a good thing. I know, but if we don't have any other means, we're forced to, but for the citizens I'm able to do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46428	Thank you. Third debate, esteemed colleague Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46429	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, since this is extremely important and above all for 330 of our fellow citizens and painful subjects, on behalf of the club, I will talk exclusively about the facts without the intention of politicizing, that we are talking cheaply about collecting some points because this law must first of all be socially sensitive and, on the other hand, it must offer all participants legal certainty. They're basic postulates. The second thing, both the government of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ club, is based on an agreement with the Most, while the coalition still existed, but by respecting its word, it therefore accepted the proposal of the Most Law with amendments that have been agreed. And they're just facts. And with that came the debate yesterday. The second thing, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in parallel with this, stressed that the Ministry of Justice has joined the creation of a whole, new executive law that will look at all of this together and make a new law that simply corresponds to the time and the simplicity in which it will apply. So, yesterday, during a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, colleagues and colleagues tried to warn one elemental thing. And the best example of how it's done is this law we just passed. After completing, practically a second reading debate, a fellow Skibol appeared in some doubt, certain issues, counterpart Shkibol sat down with representatives of the government, representatives of the Ministry of Justice and agreed. You have seen that certain amendments to the Government have been accepted by fellow Schibol, and certain amendments to the Government he has extended as a proposal, and the Government has accepted that. So that's what was supposed to happen yesterday, it unfortunately didn't happen yesterday. All the time we've been here trying to tell our MOST colleagues to sit down, try to work it out, try to find a common solution, but what I don't think is good, it's not good for all of us because we don't know who's going to be in the situation. Yesterday it was forbidden to think otherwise. It was forbidden to say that, perhaps in the opinion of the MPs, we all have the right to our own opinion, we may feel that something is wrong. Peja Grbin and I, forgive Peja for being such a fellow coat of arms, have dared to make certain remarks on two amendments, throughout the afternoon and this afternoon we are potent as people who have objected to something. So, colleagues and colleagues for the sake of the Croatian public, for the sake of record and for the sake of the fact that the government of the Republic of Croatia makes the HDZ the largest club in the ruling majority will support the draft law with the amendments that have been agreed. What came first yesterday in the verbal part, and somewhere beyond 2 or 3 hours in writing we tried to discuss unfortunately we failed to agree. The second thing, if two partners, and at the moment it is proposed by the club MOST of independent lists and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have achieved a very high degree of compliance, then it was also logical if after that conversation and agreement and high degree of compliance, if not one side wants to change the logical thing is to invite the other side to sit down and see what can be changed. And at the end of this amendment, which is, in fact, the remarks made by a colleague of the Grbin and calling the SDP club, the biggest opposition club. And it could have been done all yesterday afternoon, to see if our arguments were valid, invalid, or if a third solution could be found. To go to the solution that the government of the Republic of Croatia only unilaterally that its proposal or SDP club is simply not good. I repeat the example of fellow Scybols clearly shows that things can be resolved if we are in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. ... Gentlemen, I listened patiently as you spoke. [[You can't hear it.]] So, what I was saying yesterday and again, I'm asking one big question in paragraph 4 and 5 of your amendment, which the business bank will base on this provision on giving one young man credit if his parent or someone else doesn't give him any real estate in stock. I repeat, and I will end this. The Croatian Democratic Community club with the government's amendments supports the law, and this amendment cannot be accepted. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46430	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46431	Dear Vice-President, the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 238, paragraph 5, shall mean the insult and demeaning of the advocates by making false statements. A fellow Shuker said that yesterday was not allowed to think differently. He forgot that after his argument that I was in the closing statement he thanked his colleague Shuker for his participation in the debate and for his constructive and reasoned debate. And that's not even true that yesterday was not allowed to think differently. And if, with a single amendment, colleague Shucker has said one amendment that he disagrees with can support other amendments. And what about all these amendments that came today? So the government couldn't agree with the SDP amendments, and we're going to do the amendment, we're proposing, we're going to support it. So that doesn't stand. There are amendments that the secretary of state and the government could see that stand, which do not stand, and then HDZ deputies can vote today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46432	Thank you. I estimate there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, so if you think it has come, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46433	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Shuker injured Article 238, paragraph 5, because he was belittled means institution, and you're witnesses because you're president, that yesterday it was forbidden to think differently. That's what he said exactly. I'm quoting that yesterday was different. It was forbidden to think differently. And I'm proud of yesterday without any small verbal conflicts ever greater consensus. There were no MPs, HDZ, us here in the middle, SDP until a certain moment. Yesterday was the most honorable day since I was in this House, and I've followed the Parliament before. And therefore, fellow Shuker, you have denied the truth so much that you wish to show false truth to the people. This is exclusively about yesterday's consensus and amendments to the executive law and amendments that were in line with the law and everything else. is a lie and a deception. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46434	As chairman, I'm assessing there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We are now moving on to the discussion of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished colleague of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46435	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with the past. I'll start with one day on 22.12.2011. This was the second day of the term of office of the coalition government, and on that day on the proposal of the SDP, so the second day after the formation of the Croatian Assembly in its 7th session, two laws were passed – the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act and the Law on the Extremity of the Law on Public Executors. Do you remember the public contractors? Do you remember these citizens, that service in the Republic of Croatia that was called sheriffs who were about to enter the homes of citizens and take their property? Well, of course you don't remember. And do you know why? Because on the second day of his mandate, the SDP abolished the service and prevented another private service that needed to seize the property of citizens from their homes. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's a social democracy. And these respected colleagues and colleagues from the Most what you do is demagogy. We act in the same way today as we did a year ago, six, ten, or twenty years ago, so which right and who wrong. This law, which we will now start voting on in a few minutes, has been supported on all committees, on all the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament when it came in the second reading and when amendments that are in line with the Ministry of Justice, i.e. with the Government of the Republic of Croatia are agreed. And these amendments that are in line with the government of the Republic of Croatia, mostly back in the days when your colleague, your colleague, was at the head of the Justice Department. So this law was 99% MOST's product either in the Parliament, or in the government. This law is done for nine months, nine months. So is it too much, to stay shocked, that after nine months, not 24 hours before the vote, we get amendments and that's where I'm going to agree absolutely with you, which is not technically but essentially. But essentially in more ways than you present to the Croatian public. Essentially because they bear hidden risks, which were not enough time to discuss, nor enough time to analyze what these hidden risks would bear for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, these hidden risks have many problems. For example, one is the part where we talk about the fact that there's no charge from a pawn's law except for the principal loan. Now I'm asking you, which bank, in such a case, when only the principal of the loan can charge the citizen for the purchase of the first real estate without asking him for additional guarantees. For example, guarantees, for example, other real estate. And then I ask you, how will citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, young, mostly young, who can't afford such a property buy the same. Do you know how? By going to Germany, where they can get credit. That's what you colleagues and colleagues from the Bridge, that's what you colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Grumoja, don't be nervous, mention me in the last 24 hours so much that I started to worry. Well, my family doesn't call me as much as you do. That love for me is amazing, that even now you have to communicate with me, you can't wait five minutes to finish your speech. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, the amendments that Most submitted at the last minute, just before the debate ended, are a classic example of pulsism, demagogy and exploiting the political moment and trying to sabotage what we all agreed together. And together we all agreed to adopt today's amendments and supplement the executive law. And like the law before this, this screen was supposed to be completely green, so it should be now, and you're trying to stop it. We of the SDP have submitted an amendment, that you have agreed with it, the government has not, HDZ has not. Why? Because it does not want to exclude 3/4 of the net average salary in the Republic of Croatia. We find that their explanation, insane, unacceptable. But that won't stop us from voting for the law in the rest of it. So please, when your amendments are rejected, and they will probably be, don't you stop the screen from being green, like it was 15 minutes ago, when we voted on the proposal of a respected fellow Scybol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46436	Thank you. I've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but I know in advance that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured, because indeed, it is beginning to be misused, unfortunately, that institution injures the Rules of Procedure. Since the Rules of Procedure are so... I don't have your instruments, because when it does, I have to give. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm gonna give it up now and I'm sorry... Say it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46437	Your Honor, Mr. President. I think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. 236, because the esteemed representative of the coat of arms told a lie, which is why I found myself in his untruth, and he literally said that he had learned and seen the amendments 24 hours earlier. It's simply a harsh untruth, because I made a written proposal, at least 15 days ago, to the procedure and it was clear that it was written and I can confirm it by the representatives of the Bridge, but I'm telling my colleagues the next one, how he didn't react in the morning, yesterday morning, but at 4:00. What happened between 12 and 16 hours ago? Whether an agreement between the SDP, HDZ, has been reached, secondly, I would like to hear it. But here the formal things are imposed, I repeat what's true, I was directed 15 days ago by the written amendment and I beg you to come here doesn't manipulate what it's about. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46438	Comrade Lovrinović, you have abused the Rules of Procedure now, this has not been a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you not to do so. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46439	Your Honor. Article 238, paragraph 5, I'm not going to argue with my colleague Grbino, I'm not going to deal with him and no intentions, because these are all the lies he's made, that we're going to boycott and block something. We'll vote for this bill that was agreed, but we were also ready, he's now talking about the SDP amendment we were accept all amendments that go in favor of our citizens and these are the lies that have been made here. [[The Incursion President: But my colleague Grumoja, what is this violation of the Rules of Procedure?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46440	In the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and MPs, it is often false, but it is very difficult sometimes to assess what is true and what is false, because everyone from their own corner looks at the truth and the truth. So I ask you, when you feel or feel that something is true or false, that you do not report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it does not fall under the rules of procedure. Here you go, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46441	Article 33 which speaks of the powers of the President of the Parliament. Although you have warned them, I urge you to start sharing warnings, because how the same group of MPs terrorizes this Parliament, day after day, is becoming unbearable. Therefore, when they have wronged the Rules of Procedure, so that they may dispute, so that they may pollemise, give them a warning, and warn them by taking away the words, then they will come out of the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46442	Okay. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure... Comrade Bull, so please don't, so don't come on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I mean, look, just a little bit, so good and what you said about the people sitting in this assembly so I didn't give you any warning. So please don't let the heavy words fall, we talk about each other in an ugly way, I don't give any warning, I won't give you any warning. I appeal to behave as correct and fair people, that's all I ask. Let's move on to the debate. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46443	Chairman, I would like to warn you of one thing, therefore, that you have given fellow Stazic the opportunity to describe in what manner is being discussed in the Assembly, I cannot agree that terrorists are those who want to speak in the Parliament and that those who are not in their jobs Chairman, I'd just like to say until the end, and I'd like to ask you. [[President: Which institute is there now? Why are you talking now? What kind of speech is this?]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure for reasons and here except [[/Intruder President: What is this violation of the Rules of Procedure, replica, what is this on behalf of the club, what do you want?]] The violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 238, as well as by Mr Stazic and on your part, because you told Mr. Grumoja that it is very difficult to assess what is true. [[President: What article is injured?]] I don't think it's hard to assess what's true because there aren't ten versions of the truth, there's one single one, so then I think Mr. Grmoya at the moment has to explain that it's false, it clearly stands in article 238 to that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46444	Okay. I now invite you colleagues and colleagues to stick to the Rules of Procedure as we do today, and I think it is really after today and yesterday that it is clear to everyone that we must change it, and I hope that at the beginning of the autumn session, we will change those parts of the Rules of Procedure that make it impossible for us to talk effectively, quickly and functionally. Now, I would like to ask my esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA for a five-minute address.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46445	Thank you, Chairman. I came here to talk about the Executive Law and the conduct of all actors, but I would like to point out to you the Borov case, which is happening in Borovo. There were two months of late salaries, and one worker Tatjana Miljak wrote on her facebook that she was not satisfied with the way Borovo was run. Now what happened? Those commenting received either fired or fired notice or let's put it in a picturesque word, to those who had a contract for a certain period of time the contract was not extended. And I will read to you the message of Daniela Mažar Golubić, a worker of Borov recently, says: "Dearly, I hope you will take five minutes of your time and listen to my voice as well. My name is Daniela Mažar Golubić, one of the famous five workers who got fired. 29.5. on HZZ, a tender for the employment of employees in Borov is announced in the first wave we think traffic is growing, we get a new colleague, excellent. On Day 8.6. I get an e-mail saying that I don't have an extension of the 30.6 contract I read and don't believe. Why? Traffic is good, with customers I have a great relationship, excellent communication. He says summer comes, yearly, and then the light comes on, it's no coincidence that my support to Tatjana Miljak and her letter to the president published on the facebook where there is irregularities in the company and is talking about non-payment of salaries. Of course I support and admire the courage of a woman who risks everything to announce that we have not received the salary for two months and that this is not the first time and pays 2600 kuna." We have an average salary of 15000 kuna, and 2600 and 2 months do not receive it. "I have been employed in Borov since 25.7.2016 and I cannot talk about the period before, but I can speak during my work. The salary is paid from 8 to 30 in the month, for February and March we do not get paid. People get along, go to the Red Cross for food help, isn't that sad. My soul hurts. We work, we work hard, and we don't get paid for it. Do you know what it means to be without receiving for two months? Hep, Plinara, he's not asking, he's asking you to settle. He plays in his belly, he needs something to buy to eat, but with what? And let's be bold to support Tatjana Miljak because we see that talking is a lot of this kind of situation in Borov. You need to do something to get back up after '91. He rises from the ashes and gets fired as a reward. In today’s day when people are struggling to find work, they try to stay and earn a few swears, so they easily throw us on the road. We're at risk of existence. I don't mean to sound pathetic but I don't give in to my country because this is my country that I love with my heart that I want to live and work in. I don't want to go across the border to some promised land. Croatia is my promised land. I want to be free and enjoy the tiny joys, work and get paid for it. Is it really too much to ask? I read through portals the answer from the administration of Borovo does not tolerate any form of discrimination, insult, demeaning, and how to call all of our cancellations rather than discrimination, insult and demeaning us as a employee of Borova because imagine the insolence we want to be paid for what we have done. I thank you for your time to listen to me. I don't know if you've ever had a chance to be in Borovo, so much warmth and the family environment that the government has been trying to describe. Borovo just loves each other. I ask you to do something to save Borovo, that people who have been working in Borovo for years are not afraid whether they are next but that we finally move forward to pride on all of us." And now what's the point of the story? Well, the point of the story is that Director Borov decided to make mistakes for them, i.e. to give them all notices just because they talked. And ask yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, that by any chance you don't have you to be late for a salary of $15,000 two months, you'd be short on cash. I guarantee it. I'm saying it firsthand. And I ask you, imagine you have a salary of 2600 kuna and you're two months late? And I ask you that this administration of the Borovs that led to this and that these workers are scrambling about how to survive should be replaced and put on the ability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46446	Thank you. And last debate, distinguished colleague Stjepan Curaj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46447	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let's go back to the reason why we're looking for a break and the current topic around the executive law. First of all, what I want to show here after yesterday's constructive can be said and indeed the debate that went into the metrics and at least the politics were held that unfortunately we had already slowed it down today. Today we enter into some political connotations, ways of working, we, they, we love more, you don't give etc., etc. Unfortunately, they had some point of agenda and voting and where we all made unanimous and actually where it turned out to be today. And I believe that today will be all for, so we will all vote in favour of this bill regardless of the amendments we have accepted or not accepted. And that's a message, we're all in. But what I did yesterday in the debate several times and on behalf of the club, after the morning of some amendments, to mention, I have warned, I am here now discussing something where I do not have a final picture that has changed all this and a good part of the amendments and inflation that followed, literally dozens of amendments that have come in the afternoon which, in my base, I will touch only one, they have a good intention and can agree on that. Of course, someone who, due to the economic crisis, took a loan with one interest, in one currency, eventually overpaid that loan but remained more than half-debted and threw it out that it was wrong. But we mustn't endanger the future of some citizens. In fact, what I said yesterday, what is important in this amendment compared to that proposal that we finally passed on boards, where everyone agreed, where they were kicked out of the credit and carried out on one real estate, a natural person, that's now removed, now they can be craftsmen to what I see. There may now be a situation where someone raises credit for trade funds, for anything else, not a housing loan with 3, 4 properties they have. Meanwhile, he sells, donates real estate, and when he sees that the amount of interest and the principal came to him with an amount he asked simply to stop paying and play the state. And banks are asked to protect themselves from all of us who can't buy real estate except that they don't save 30 years and then maybe the expensive money will be asked for 2nd, 3rd real estate or I don't know what kind of guarantees. This brings and threatens the future of all of us. So the intention is good, but we need to think a lot more, we need to discuss it better, we can't bid ad hoc overnight, we can get to the citizens and say, we don't like it anymore, we're more into it, because we're the first ones to suggest it, so these suggested it, etc. We had suggestions and here in the argument, I mentioned, unfortunately in this, the amendments and additions of this Law did not go to article 172. So we can't change today, as much as we want, by any amendment that the government agrees to, say, regresses and goddesses and all the other untaxable receipts aren't completed. We can't do that. When I mentioned it to my colleague Simic at the show in the morning, he said that you had after the first reading of time to do so. I wasn't in this house myself, but yeah, they had time. And now these same promoters, unfortunately within 24 hours because the debate opened up, the broad debate, and that's good, there might have been some extra stuff, so we better go change it. But we have to do it professionally, we have to do it in cooperation, and we have to do it so we don't stop anyone else. And that's the basis and that's the debate we had yesterday. What's happening today is one constant. It wasn't good when it was done coalitionally, there were some disputes again, that coalition was torn apart. Now it's not good to accept what was done at the time and everyone's in agreement, but something's wrong again, and there's got to be some halabuca, some drama, whatever. That's not the way. The HNS Club will, of course, support the basic proposal, the final proposal to amend and supplement the law. And thank God he's here. Thank God that here not only from this regression, the Christmas that needs to be put in place, there are a number of other things that need to go further into the process and amendments to the law and the adoption of a new law. And these things that you have proposed and the amendments that have been, should be considered but not over the knee, not overnight, not doing some political points, so that we all agree on it more. Because imagine I'm the promoter, and now someone's given the amendment that sounds good, so it's gonna turn out, pick up some pick-up from the voters. So please one more time, I believe we'll all be in and this is the good thing we've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46448	Thank you. So we're done arguing after the break. We return to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, second reading, P.Z. No. Six. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. Article 201, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure determines that amendments shall be declared by the Proposer and by the Government if he is not the legislator. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure states that if the final draft of the law has not been submitted by the Government on an amendment with which the Government has not agreed, the vote shall be taken separately. In accordance with the abovementioned articles of the Rules of Procedure, in order for the amendments to be accepted, they must be accepted by both the proposings and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We are now moving on to a statement on the amendments, the representative of the proposing respected counterpart Miroslav Simic, so on behalf of the Most Independent Lists. Let me just say that we have a total of 32 amendments and 1 that are not proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We are starting with the 1st amendment, it is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46449	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46450	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 2., Advocacy Club Lives Wall and Power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46451	It is not accepted, we do not accept the amendment but we believe that each party in the executive procedure should bear its own costs and it is not proportionate to push all costs over to one side only. Among other things, we will continue to accept the amendment of this content by my colleague Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46452	Government, fellow Salapic?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46453	The government does not accept the amendment because we believe that accepting this amendment would undermine the balance of parties in the executive procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46454	Thank you. And the promoter, Comrade Sincic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46455	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not satisfied with any explanation. We ask that an exception be made for cases of up to 1000 kuna. Not just to relieve the judiciary of a large number of small-scale executions. The amendment is not in conflict with the amendment of counterpart Lovrinovic. Therefore, we ask that the costs be borne by an executive who seeks the execution of below 1000 kuna, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46456	Thank you. Let us vote on an amendment that neither the applicant nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. So we move on to Amendment number three, that's the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46457	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46458	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number four of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46459	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46460	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number five, re-engagement club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46461	It's unacceptable. We do not accept it because the adoption of this amendment would limit legal certainty in legal relations in which, as an instrument for ensuring the search for a contract, the right to real estate is committed. In addition, we do not accept the new paragraph 7 because this would make the provision of Article 75. The law of law has become contradictory to itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46462	Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46463	The government also does not accept and we agree with the argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46464	Thank you very much. Proposer of fellow Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46465	Thank you, Your Honor. I consider it necessary to further protect natural persons who support other persons, that is one reason why this amendment should be passed, and another reason is that they are craftsmen of a natural person who guarantee their assets for the tasks they carry out. That property includes the only property they live in. And now that it is the same for natural persons as other natural persons to whom this article is submitted, I think that this should also apply to craftsmen as natural persons because they really are natural persons. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46466	We therefore vote on an amendment that neither the applicant nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts. I find that the amendment has not received enough votes, so we move on to amendment number six of the representatives of Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46467	We accept in part in the section relating to the new added item 8 and we do not accept adding a new paragraph 7. The proposed paragraph 7 would introduce legal uncertainty as the inability to repay credit is based on a unilateral statement of the debtor resulting from the credentials' obligation to allow early repayment of the loan with a start of 3 months as to the duration of the letter of intention that the believer would have to make. Such a proposal legally regulates the sale of real estate as the only possible way of early repayment of credit in the event of inability to pay off while such early payment is made by selling real estate on which the right to the value of the rest is possible and without legal regulation under mandatory law. Therefore, the property to which the right is entered may, regardless of that stock, be the subject of purchase and shall be free to sell at any time for the value of the rest of the debt or less value and which purchase may close the claim of the trustee. In addition, the proposed paragraph 7 does not take into account situations in which a number of stocks of different creditors are recorded on the real estate, of which the claim claims do not have to have origin in the credit line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46468	I ask my colleague Salapic to show himself on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46469	The government does not accept the amendment with the following explanation. This amendment is affecting the basic principles of mandatory law and that freedom to regulate mandatory relations and the obligation to fulfil obligations. The law cannot order a new loan and a letter of intent to be negotiated as well as to allow partial fulfilment of the obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46470	Comrade Alexic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46471	Thank you, Your Honor. I accept the motion's explanation and suggest that votes on a proposal that has been corrected in accordance with the proposal of the motion and I believe that this is necessary because there is no conflict with the Law on Mandatory Relations. If further orders are made to the court that he must accept a motion for a postponement in the event of a court case for certain unfair behaviours of the credentials. So I'm asking for a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46472	Thank you. So we move to a vote on an amendment that the applicant accepts in part and the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. Amendment number 7, "The Living Wall and SNAGA's Advocacy Club". Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46473	We do not accept it because by accepting this amendment, it would be particularly beneficial for the perpetrators of real estate with greater value.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46474	Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46475	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to regulate its amendment the possibility of not granting the implementation of the implementation and for claims the principal of which exceeds 20 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46476	Proposer, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46477	In the spirit of constructiveity, I will say that I accept the explanation of the motion and the Government, with a request, for the government to accept our amendment that suspends the secret actions. So, we're not exclusive, we're not what the chairman says, cepidlakes or whatever, we're gonna be soft. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46478	So you're giving up the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46480	Thank you very much. We move on to Amendment number 8, MP Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46481	We do not accept it because the club of the Independent Lists has proposed an amendment that is significantly accepted by the intensities of this amendment and further revaluation of that amount at the annual level, therefore, in the case of inflation contained in this proposal, it would introduce legal uncertainty because the legal amount would only be valid until the first revaluation if the new amount of restrictions would have to be re-established. There would be an amount of restrictions in the law that would actually be invalid.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46482	Comrade Salapic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46483	The government does not accept the same reasoning as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46484	Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46485	My opinion that this amendment is good, why? Because it primarily protects the perpetrators because hypothetically within 5 or 10 years inflation can be significant, so the amount that today is realisticly 50,000 kuna so that originally proposed could become today's amount of 20,000 kuna and then come back into the situation so that the small real amount could trigger the execution. An additional argument in this sense is the existence of index clauses. They're widely applied. This is about introducing inflation, inflation rates as index clauses, and we see that in Croatia, the currency clauses apply these ones. Therefore, the intention of this amendment was to really protect the perpetrators, that because of the inflation that could bring this value down again to a real 50,000, it would become really very small and once again because of a small amount of activity, etc. Therefore, I ask that this be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46486	Okay. We are voting on an amendment that neither the Government nor the Proposer accept. Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so we move on to Amendment 9. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46487	We accept in part in the modified form in the section relating to paragraph 1 of the proposed new Article 80b. but in the text of the word ‘20000 kuna’, the words ‘50,000 kuna’ are replaced. And we do not accept paragraph 2 since the same has been resolved by the government amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46488	Vlad's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46489	The government does not accept this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to regulate its amendment the possibility of not granting the implementation of the mandate and the principal will cross 20,000 kuna for demand, and the exceptions to that rule. These amendments and amendments to the Implementing Act provide for additional conditions for determining the implementation of the property of a natural person who does not carry out the registered activity. That provision does not exclude consumer protection, so it is not necessary to highlight that category in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46490	Please, on behalf of the motionary, dear colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46491	And yesterday during the debate, we talked about it, and today we're going to do it again. Consumer relations cannot be treated in the same way as everyone else. Therefore, consumer relations are those in which a natural person enters with a trader outside of its activity. So, let's simplify. When we get a contract for telecommunications services, electricity, water, etc. In these segments, citizens should be further protected because they are usually involved in a business relationship with a corporation that is better and better and legally and financially and whatever way we want to look equipped. However, we cannot treat relations as they are, for example, outside the contractual obligation. To simplify the damages. Someone's hurting you, you're looking for damages, and if this stays this way in many situations, you won't be able to charge it. On the other hand, paragraph 2 is particularly important in this amendment, as it allows us, past these consumer situations that I have been talking about, to an amount of 20000 kuna in which case the exercise would always be excluded, in all other situations, to allow the court to assess, in the light of the circumstances of the case, whether the real estate performance in this particular case is permitted. And I think that's how we guarantee, on the one hand, the right to believe, and on the other hand, to a much greater extent, the right of debtors to protect its existence and its assets even when the debtor is the one who has failed to comply with his obligations. Of course we're asking for a vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46492	Thank you. We are now voting on an amendment that the Proposer accepts in part, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, so let us vote. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. We are moving on to 10 amendments from distinguished counterpart Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46493	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46494	The Proposer accepts. Government of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46495	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. The amount of 20000 kuna as a threshold for the authorisation of the launch of an executive property procedure on the one hand provides protection to the perpetrator and, on the other hand, makes it impossible to fully enforce its claim which contributes to the balance in the implementation of the property's performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46496	Thank you. Comrade Alexic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46497	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe that the amendment must be accepted, that the amount of 20,000 kuna is too small and that this amendment should therefore be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46498	You're asking for a vote, I presume?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46499	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46500	We are now voting on an amendment that the applicant accepts and the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. The amendment has not received enough votes, so let's now move on to amendment number 11 of MP Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46501	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46502	He accepts. A fellow Salapian?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46503	The government does not accept this amendment. The proposal that each party would bear its own costs in the executive procedure is contrary to the basic rule under which the party which has lost its whole dispute is obliged to compensate the counterparty for all costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46504	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46505	I'm really shocked by what I heard in front of the government, because this is about the most financial amendment to the entire Implementing Law. The adoption of this amendment, according to which each party in the Executive Procedure would pay its own expenses, would protect tens of thousands of citizens and keep them in their billions of kuna pocket. About 70% of all the costs incurred in these executive procedures apply to this. And I just now see whose interests are being protected here. This is one of the most just things that can be done, but you have seen how smoothly the secretary of state is, therefore, imposing here an opinion, the Ministry of Justice and the Government, imposes on us legislators, who can change what they want, he imposes on us what we need to do here, what we should do. So this proposal, you become directly responsible for the billions of kuna that you will take to citizens in the coming months and years because you refuse to accept this. If I happen to appeal to respected MPs and MPs today, don't think about your party path, think about people who pay, who can't pay their dues, who may be kicked out of their apartments, let's protect people with this righteous clause, that is, this amendment. I appeal to your conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46506	You're asking for a vote, I presume? So we are voting on an amendment accepted by the proposer and not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. So we move on to amendment number 12 of Representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46507	We don't accept. The value of the property is now determined by the assessment of a privileged court expert, and for which assessment the executive is obliged to exceed the cost of the assessment. With the current legal solution, real estate cannot be sold at the first auction for less than 4/5 of its value, 80%, while at the second auction it cannot be sold below 3/5, or 60% of its value. The adoption of the proposed amendment would create a policy with the current provision of Article 102. The implementing law, which has already set a limit for the sale of real estate by a minimum of 80% of its value, is more than proposed by the amendment, and only if such sales were failed, is there possible to lower prices to a maximum of 60% of the estimated value. With such a legal solution, an optimal balance has been established between the protection of the rights of the perpetrator and the executive because by setting the lower limit for the sale of the property at 75% of its market value, with a write-off from the rest of the debt for the sale at a lower price, the property could become an inadequate object of the application.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46508	Please, fellow Salapic, on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46509	The government also does not accept with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46510	Thank you. And I'd like to ask my colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46511	I accept the argument withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46512	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the 13th Amendment. It's an amendment to the Advocacy List Bridge Club. It will be made clear to the Government, since it is the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46513	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. The government of the Republic of Croatia has addressed the issue in a better and fairer way with its amendment. The government amendment provides for protection of real estate even when the principal is larger than 20,000 kuna. The proposed amendment is contrary to the Law on Mandatory Relations and General Rules on the Compensation of the Costs of Procedures resulting from the Implementing Act and the Law on the Procedural Procedure. The proposed amendment is not in the spirit of the existing system and is a source of legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46514	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46515	Thank you very much. As far as we're concerned as we're proposing, I can say that in consultation with other clubs, we think that the amount of 50,000 kuna is a real amount to protect real estate, so it's the amount that was ultimately proposed on the round table, organised by the President of the Republic of Croatia, and we stay with this proposal. As far as our proposal is concerned, that after the amount is paid, whether through interest or other fees at the level of the principal's amount, it can also not be completed by the property in which the person's dwellings. I have to say, that banks don't just take mortgages as a form of protection of their claim. They are primarily charged through the receipts of the perpetrators, i.e. the debtor and here we protect only those persons who, after they have paid the amount that is in their principal value, no longer have the financial power to pay back and protect them until then, until that financial power is acquired. Because as long as there's a person in his bank account, there's no reason for the bank to go to work. If the person does not have an inflow account, we need to enable that person to go out one time, not after he is out of 100,000 credits, the euro that is, for example, euro. She raised, meanwhile, 100,000 euros so far to pay the bank and regardless, the bank can throw her out on the street tomorrow. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46516	Thank you. It is therefore up to the vote on an amendment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to accept. Let's vote. The amendment didn't get enough votes. So we move on to Amendment 14. The government of the
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46517	We accept in the modified form, so that in the text the amendment of the word 20,000 kuna is replaced by the words 50,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46518	A representative of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46519	The government of the Republic of Croatia remains with its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46520	Okay, then we are voting on an amendment that the applicant does not accept, which the Government has given and which remains the end of such an amendment. Please vote. I find that this amendment has received a sufficient number of votes from 106 and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 15, "Living Wall Representatives' Club" and "SNAGA".
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46521	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46522	The Proposer accepts. I'm asking the government to manifest itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46523	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. Obligations, the moment of surrender of real estate are prescribed in Article 127. The executive law, thus knowing that real estate must be handed over to the customer immediately after delivery of the conclusion, sells real estate to the buyer stems from the law itself. In addition, this law encourages the perpetrators to voluntarily hand over real estate to the buyer, to protect their dignity from the move-out process. The housing of such perpetrators is secured for 18 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46524	Thank you. On behalf of the promoters, the esteemed colleague Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46525	I'm not satisfied with the government's explanation, because it's just not true. In practice, I have testified several times, that although the executive proceedings are in the party's process, such as the executive and the perpetrator that one party will receive notice when to... real estate, and the other party does not get, although they should be equal in all principles, laws, practices, etc., so I insist that they ban secret oculations, to stop the Gestapo's way of being expelled without any notice. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46526	Let's vote on an amendment that the applicant accepts and the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get enough votes. So we move on to amendment number 16 of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46527	We don't accept. It is not acceptable for us to protect the perpetrator who refuses to implement the legal decision of the competent national authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46528	Government?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46529	The government doesn't accept the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46530	Please show the amendment promoter, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46531	Well, things are very simple. Although the government in theory offers the performer 18 months of paid accommodation, in practice even if the performer does not leave the property for at least a year or two again, it is violently engaged. So this law actually does not aim to allow free accommodation to a performer for 18 months but rather aims to get him out of his home voluntarily as soon as possible. And for this reason, I think that the solution that is currently in the law is simply not good because the goal of such a solution is unfortunately just to speed up the evictions, means that people are voluntarily moving out, and when it's 18 months, they're going to find themselves again in the same situation that they don't have the money, they don't have the means to live and they're going to have permanent agony. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46532	Let us vote on an amendment that neither the Government nor the Proposer accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. So we move on to amendment number 17 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46533	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46534	The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 18 is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, so the proposer himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46535	Thank you very much. The government doesn't accept the amendment. In its proposal, the Proposer proposed provisions enabling the implementation of the EU Regulation. 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a procedure for a European account blocking order to simplify cross-border debt collection in civil and commercial matters. That Regulation does not know... the blocking of accounts and that is the solution that applies throughout the EU. The proposed amendment is completely contrary to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law, as it introduces double rules i.e. one rule to be applied in cross-border cases and another to be applied when there is no cross-border element.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46536	I'd like to ask for a statement from my colleague Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46537	We, as a proposing, remain with our amendment. We think this is one of the amendments that would very much help the blocked, which is very logical and which has reason to be accepted. It is that in those procedures and in those who have no inflow and take-off at the end of the year in their account, we want to unblock them. In addition, we want to introduce an absolute limitation period of ten years because we think that our citizens should not and should not be blocked for life, which is what the current Implementing Law does not allow them to work but is very, very unfortunately working successfully. So we call on all MPs to support this amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46538	So let's vote on the amendment of the motion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Please, let's vote. This amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes either. So we move on to Amendment 19 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46539	We do not accept it because without objective need, it would particularly protect the perpetrators with above average salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46540	Government of the
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46541	The government doesn't accept the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46542	Thank you. And a colleague of the coat of arms on behalf of the SDP representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46543	Well, this amendment shows all the level of demagogy of respected bridge colleagues with solid assistance from the government. So when this law was passed, there was a constant talk that three-quarters of the salary, beware now that three-quarters of the salary will be excluded from the charge. And then the bill comes in first, the bill comes in second reading and what it says, that three-quarters of the salary will be excluded from the exercise provided that those three-quarters are less than two-thirds of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. With all due respect, the amendments which say that three quarters of net wages in the Republic of Croatia are excluded from the exercise mean not just any of them, not my colleagues or your colleagues Simic, but the average salaries in the Republic of Croatia do not protect those who receive the average wage but rather protect all those who receive below the average salary. So let's explain once again the notor truth is that by adopting this law in the proposal as the Government or the Most says three-quarters of the salary will be protected because it won't. There will be two thirds left for the vast majority of citizens, and only the average, and that should be said out loud and clear. Of course, given everything, we insist on voting on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46544	I ask that we vote on an amendment that neither the proposing nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts. The amendment didn't get enough votes. So we move on to Amendment number 20 of The Living Wall and SNAGA's Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46545	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46546	Please show the government's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46547	The Government shall not accept the amendments, the income of the independent work shall be subject to the provision of Article 173(4). Official law which is unnecessarily amended because the existing provisions of the Implementing Law are in accordance with tax regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46548	Apparition of the proposed colleague, Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46549	The Government shall not accept the amendments, the income of the independent work shall be subject to the provision of Article 173(4). Official law which is unnecessarily amended because the existing provisions of the Implementing Law are in accordance with tax regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46550	Apparition of the proposed colleague, Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46551	Thank you, Your Honor. These are the proposals that came from the HOK, which want to be further protected by craftsmen who are natural persons who carry out their registered activity. Therefore, I support this proposal, and I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46552	Let us vote on this proposal which the applicant accepts and the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. He didn't get enough votes, so we move on to Amendment No. 21 Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46553	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46554	That amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 22nd Regovernment of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46555	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46556	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 23. Government of the
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46557	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46558	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. No. 24, re-government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46559	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46560	It becomes an integral part of the law. 25th Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46561	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46562	It becomes an integral part of the law. 26. The government of the
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46563	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46564	It becomes an integral part of the law. 27. It's a "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46565	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46566	Please show the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46567	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The proposed amendment is not enforceable because the Agency cannot distinguish the personal obligations of a natural person from the obligations it has assumed from its activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46568	Please be advised. My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46569	I'm not happy with the explanation, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46570	We then vote on an amendment that the applicant accepts and the government does not accept. I find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so we move on to Amendment No. 28. Government of the
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46571	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46572	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 29. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46573	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46574	I'm asking the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46575	The government does not accept there is no need to change the existing legal framework for criminal punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46576	And I'd like to ask my colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46577	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask that this amendment be accepted, so I demand a vote because it is necessary to reduce the penalties for natural persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46578	So we are voting on an amendment that the applicant accepts and the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We're moving to Amendment 30, The Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46579	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46580	The Proposer accepts. The government's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46581	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46582	I'd like a proposal from my colleague, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46583	Thank you. I'm not satisfied with the government's explanation, we're looking for more fines for banks as written in the proposal, thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46584	We would like to vote on an amendment accepted by the promoter and not accepted by the Government. He didn't get enough votes. Moving to Amendment No. 31. Government of the
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46585	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46586	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. Thirty-two. It's a live wall and SNAG rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46587	We do not accept, we believe that the draft law and the intervention of the Government's amendment are in an appropriate way determined which provisions of this law will apply to procedures in progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46588	I'd like a representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46589	The government does not accept, the proposed solution would not be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46590	And I'd like to ask the promoter if he wants to be obvious, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46591	Well, it's very simple, so we've had, like, seven years already over 25 thousand real estate executions and the essence of the whole story is that it's said that this executive law is going to help the perpetrators. However, the truth is that unless it applies to the tasks that were launched earlier and not yet completed, it means that all people who are currently under the supervision of whose real estate are in the executive procedure this law will not apply to them. In other words, a thousand perpetrators will not benefit from these amendments to the Implementing Law unless its provisions apply to the performances that are already under way. So what, we will apply this law only to the performances that will be launched I don't know eight days after its passage to the Parliament or whatever. I think this retroactivity is important because if the new law is better than the old one, then why not apply a law that goes in the interests of the perpetrators to the performances that are not ready? I don't see any reasonable explanation for his refusal. Also the ruling majority, the ruling majority must know that they perform demagogue if they tell people that the new Implementing Law will help them if it is a trick in not applying the new law to them. So what, then, what, for whom? Well, it's already 330, 340 thousand are blocked by citizens, thousands of real estate are pushed into that executive machine, so you say that doesn't apply to them. I find the explanation inconclusive and demand a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46592	We then vote on an amendment that has not been accepted by the motionor or by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Another amendment has been tabled between the Living Wall and the SNAG Club, but it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure as regards Article 172. A law of law so we won't even decide about it. And this is where we finished the amendment debate. I would like to stress that the adoption of this law requires half the majority of all MPs, 76 in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure. We're going to vote on the law itself. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act with the amendments adopted. Please, let's vote. I also find that this law is unanimous with 127 votes to be passed along with the amendments adopted. We're going to the new agenda now. And that is: - The proposal for a decision on the selection of three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system based on Article 126. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Rules of Procedure, and in relation to 6. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The material was delivered to the boxes. I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, Zeljko Rainer, to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46594	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me pass on the committee's position briefly, I've got a little bit of paperwork mixed up, I'm sorry... No, no, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, but I wanted to see an explanation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, in accordance with Article 9(2) of the basic Regulation, The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Constitutional Court of the Constitutional Court, announced on 14 October this year that on 13 April, the term of office of the judge of science of Miroslav Šeparović, and on 20 January, this year, the President of the Constitutional Court, according to that provision, informed the Parliament that on 20 July, the next judges of the Constitutional Court, the doctors of science, Mati Arlovic and Antun Palaric. The Constitutional Court judge, Dr Miroslav Šeparovic, has been extended in accordance with the provisions of Article 126. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, thus extended, expires, but no later than 14 November 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Constitutional law of the Constitutional Court, prescribed that the procedure for the candidate of the Constitutional Court judges and the proposal for elections in the Croatian Parliament be carried out by the Committee of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the Constitution, i.e. the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. That committee referred, in accordance with Article 6. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court, calling on all competent institutions, judicial and legal colleges, the Bar Association, legal associations, political parties, other legal persons and individuals to propose candidates for the selection of 3 judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The invitation also requested the relevant documents on the basis of the provision of Article 6. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, following the expiry of the deadline for the application, established at the 20th session held on 20 June that 12 candidates had arrived at the invitation to propose. In doing so, one application is found to be invalid, since not all the necessary documentation is included in accordance with that call. And 11 applications were valid. On this basis, the Committee has drawn up a list of candidates and as provided for in Article 6(4). The constitutional law, prescribed by the board to hold a public conversation with each candidate, called for the discussion of all 11 candidates, whose bids were established by the law and during the public talks, the board members came closer to meet the candidates. After that, a public vote was also held as a result of the public vote, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, proposes to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of three judges in the order set out in the list of candidates, namely the Doctor of Science Miroslav Šeparović, the Doctor of Science Mato Arlović and the Doctor of Science Goran Selanec. I should say that the provision of Article 6 of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court stipulates that I quote the list of candidates "generally contains more candidates than the number of judges elected" which means that there may be less, there may be more. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Committee decided that the candidate list contained exactly as many candidates as the candidate is elected, and I presented them to the candidates proposed by the Committee. Their résumés or explanation of why these three candidates you have received in the materials and the committee proposes the selection of those three candidates for constitutional judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46595	I thank the board president. We have one replica, dear colleague Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46596	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Reiner, I must say I am pleased with the choice of candidates. I must say that I am extremely pleased with the work of the Constitutional Court under the direction of Judge Šeparović, I must also say that I am very pleased that the doctor of science Silanec has entered the selection. I read his legal opinions before he even became a candidate for a constitutional judge sometimes I asked him for his opinion because you know that I do things, and I'm not a lawyer, so I used to ask him for his opinion and that helped me with what I do. The Doctor of Science Arlovic also participated in some important decisions of the Constitutional Court and I am extremely pleased that the opposition authorities have chosen to tell the right people to continue working in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46597	Thank you. There's no need for a replica. Now we're moving on to the debate. The first reported on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague named Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46598	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to withdraw a short parallel with the Supreme Court at the beginning of this debate, although we will talk about it later. Unlike the election for the Supreme Court president, we received a proposal Monday, and this procedure began several months ago. For a month there was a public call on the front page of the Croatian Parliament and however any candidate for the Constitutional Court came, it was automatically published on the front page of the Croatian Parliament so that all citizens could have insight into who they are and who are the judges of the Constitutional Court and who are their résumés or references to become today or tomorrow. We also talked to all candidates during the procedure, with some more, with some less, asking them questions and the public was constantly and transparently informed about who, who, who and why he chooses. In this context, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, which is also members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, participated in the vote and proposed these three candidates who were the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and vice-president of the Croatian Parliament a few minutes ago and read it. In that context, we support the choice of these gentlemen as judges of the Constitutional Court. However, contrary to something that one of the HZD's representatives was talking about about half an hour ago, 45 minutes ago, we really are an opposition, we are not really a government, but where we can try very hard to condition the government or the ruling decisions that will be made. And we don't have much of those rights. The decision to elect judges of the Constitutional Court is one of the few decisions taken by full law by the two-thirds majority and therefore I will repeat just one more position that we made yesterday. Due to the importance of Agrokor's investigation committee issue, because of the importance that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia learn not what is hidden but whether something is hiding behind the Agrokor story, the SDP cannot accept participation in the vote on the election of Constitutional Court judges until we reach an agreement, we fail to reach an agreement and decide to form an investigative committee for the situation on Agrokor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46599	The second debate, dear fellow Robert Podolnjak, was held on behalf of the Alliance of Independent Lists Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46600	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Somehow it became common for me to speak on behalf of the club in relatively late hours, but I must say that today it is still relatively early in comparison to the debate I had in the proposal for a law on the Ombudsman for children. Last year, the Croatian Parliament elected 10 constitutional judges out of 13 numbered by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, the issue of the continuity of the work of this very important state body has been resolved for a long time, i.e. At least eight years since 10 constitutional judges can always make a quorum in his work. At least, in our opinion in the Most, there were certain compromises, poor compromises justified by the necessity of concessions, in order to enable the Constitutional Court to survive at all. We then voted in the MOST for 6 out of 10 proposed candidates. We have then established the composition that is proposed and agreed by the largest parties does not correspond to what the Constitution states that the Constitutional Court is elected from the order of prominent lawyers, particularly judges, state lawyers, lawyers and university professors of legal science. We expected that the last three new judges this year would fix that picture and composition of the Constitutional Court, but since two out of three candidates from the old composition did not happen. The choice of Constitutional Court judges has not been reformed as we have proposed, it remains quite intransparent with insufficiently clear criteria of excellence for candidates, allowing the re-election of judges for which we in the Most are not inclined. The general public perceives it as a simple political trade, a political party dominated by the principle of accepting my candidate and I will accept your candidate. In principle, we have an example today. If I'm not mistaken in the SDP, they said in principle that they would not like candidates who are current judges and who bear the burden of the Constitutional Court's decision in the Sanader case, that a few days later two of the three candidates would be just the judges who carry the burden. It doesn't seem principled to us. In order to get a more objective picture of our Constitutional Court, which will now be completed in the next seven years, I will present some comparative data and comparisons to our judges and judges of the German Constitutional Court. In fact, the German Constitutional Court in the world is considered one of the most prominent and influential. And there are certain parallels between Germany and our Constitutional Court. It is chosen there by parliament, two 8-judge parliaments, by two-thirds, so in the same way as we do, as these, all the judges we elected last year and this year, and in the process are undoubtedly dominated by two of the most important political parties in Germany, the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats, and the fact is here in us. So there are in principle great similarities in the way parliament is elected by a two-thirds majority. But what's the difference? So in Germany we have 16 judges, here at 13 judges. In the German Constitutional Court of 16 judges, 10 are professors of legal science from prominent German universities, impressive résumés. Many were deans, visiting professors at foreign universities, especially the United States, especially public law professors and European law. In the Republic of Croatia, if candidates proposed today are elected, none of the 13 judges will be a professor of legal science. In Germany 10 to 16, none of us from 13. So neither one of them is a professor and has any of the characteristics characterized by German colleagues. Why isn't there a professor? Because independent, legally, extremely well-educated, they know comparatively, constitutionally, European law, they are used to free judgment. As judges in the Constitutional Court, we could certainly judge very independently and professionally any law or other regulation that comes under the light of constitutionality. In Germany, 14 judges have a PhD in legal science only 6. In Germany, 6 are judges of the highest courts of 16 quotas prescribed by a special law on the Constitutional Court. In us four judges who in some part of their careers have acted as one of the Supreme Court's judges. In Germany, 7 out of 16 judges are women. In our Constitutional Court, only 3 out of 13. An important segment that greatly distinguishes the German Constitutional Court from ours. In the German Constitutional Court, only one of the 16 judges came from the political sphere. Only one among them was the Prime Minister of a federal province, the rest had no and no contact with politics, were not party members, I told 10 professors, other judges of the highest courts. So extremely low politicization of the German Constitutional Court. In our Constitutional Court, meaning, of course, that candidates on whom the HDZ and SDP's apparent consent exists, 613 came from the Parliament or from the executive authority, some of them being ministers, state secretaries, part of the MPs. Part of the MPs who, now when deciding on certain legal rules, must be excluded because they participated in their adoption, in discussions whether they were for or against, part of the parliamentary majority or part of the opposition. One interesting thing when you observe the age of the Constitutional Judges, there is a limit in Germany until you can be the judge of the Constitutional Court until 68 years of age. We don't have a problem with you choosing someone, the Constitutional Court when it's 68 years old. Or when it approaches that age limit. Obviously, there is some reason that has led German legislators to prescribe that age. And of course, German constitutional judges can only be elected once, have a full mandate in which they make their decisions and generally come to the Constitutional Court at the peak of their legal career. Or at the height of his fateful career. So when they are strongest, when they can give the most in the assessment of the constitutionality of the law or other regulations. And that's why the German Constitutional Court is so highly appreciated. Like no other Constitutional Court in the world. Did you happen to find any major similarities between our Constitutional Court and the German Constitutional Court? Why has our Constitutional Court never enjoyed such a reputation, uncontested public reputation as the German Constitutional Court enjoys? Our Constitutional Court has the same name as German, and it's called the Constitutional Court, but it's a completely different kind of animal. It is a court which, by its composition, is much more of a political constitutional court and which absolutely lacks the academic dimension that enables free reasoning, better-quality embodies, the insignificantness of earlier political engagement and membership to the political party. And that's why the German Constitutional Court is so esteemed everywhere in the world. And that is why we in MOST expected and appealed that now, in the election of these three judges of the Constitutional Court, the political party would consider including at least at this stage the academic community and choosing for some professor of legal science. Because what's the message that you don't have a single professor of legal science in the 13 judges of the Constitutional Court? What kind of message is that? I don't think there's a Constitutional Court in a world that doesn't have any legal science professors. Even in the Constitution he says and lists professors of legal science. We had the presidents of the Constitutional Court who were professors of legal science, and even for a long time if we were watching Professor Smiljko Sokola and Professor Jasna Omejek, so for many years. Now from all law schools, from all the departments of constitutional law, couldn't a professor be found worthy of being in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia? What message is that? Understand me when I talk about it, as a professor of legal science, which is a message that I will convey to the leadership of the 13-member Constitutional Court, none can be a professor of legal science? But neither. And we find that really not acceptable. And that to that extent the court must be told I will be free, politicized. Unfortunately, in this political agreement that compromises the agreement between the biggest political parties, HDZ and SDP, we did not participate in the Most. We've been on an informal conversation where we've been informed of who the candidates are or will be. In principle, it is well known that the SDP voted in its club to determine a candidate. They neither asked us for an opinion nor we participated in any way as part of the opposition now in which candidate might be proposed from the ranks of the opposition if she then proposed a candidate. So that's how we couldn't even participate. We've only been notified that a candidate has been proposed on their part. On the side of HDZ, another candidate. In fact, even today, we don't know how there was a third candidate who was first not accepted by the SDP, so it became a proposal that had reached an agreement that I believe tomorrow, to have more than 101 votes, but we at the MOST will be abstentioned because, as I said, our basic demands that in this Constitutional Court, we get professors of legal science, to get more judges of the highest courts, and that should be in the light of the composition of other Constitutional Courts in Europe. That's why we have to be abstentions. It's not the Constitutional Court we'd like to have. I hope that this Constitutional Court will not jump out too much in public as the Constitutional Court can bring quality in its decision, perhaps with the honorary exceptions of judges who will write some separate opinions, here I will say Judge Andrej Abramovic, whom I have observed in some of his opinions, but one of the owners does not make spring. Unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46601	We have four replicas. He's the first respected colleague, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46602	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Podolnjak, I've already replicated with you a year ago when we chose 10 judges of the Constitutional Court on a similar subject. You claim it's bad that there are few legal science professors in the Constitutional Court. I can agree with you, but we made a public call. And no one has prevented the professors of the Faculty of Law in Croatia, especially those of the Constitutional Law Department. Why didn't they answer? But one of them came forward, and then I expected to see your statement that you would support it. You were against it. So, one single professor of legal science signed up for this public call and now you're telling us there's not one, and against the one who applied you were against. I'm not saying it's your right to assess which of the candidates reported is good. As far as the candidates are concerned, the question needs to be asked why the candidates, primarily the judges of the Supreme Court, do not apply. You know why? Because they're much better at the Supreme Court, because they're judges up to 70 years old with better conditions, with better pay. They are not officials, but fall under the criteria of judges, they have their own special laws that give them one, I would say, a more favourable situation than the officials, and when it comes to the reduction of salaries and other fees, etc. etc. So we are for career judges, but you can see they're not answering.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46603	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46604	I thank you, but let me remind you then that in last year's procedure we had judges, we had professors who responded to a tender that was seriously discussed, who were at some point very serious candidates to be in the narrow, the most important choice to vote on in this Croatian Assembly and at the end of the story were not on the list of 10 candidates, and even among them here I will now say here publicly Professor Sanja Baric who, two before that, had not received that two-thirds majority that appeared last time in the competition. And when there was no place for her among the ten judges who were then choosing which message was actually sent to her? What was the message there was no place for her among 10 judges. There was no place for example for Professor Žarko Potočnjak from the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. But why the big parties having a crucial impact on the election, which is you in HDZ and SDP. If you had contacted any of these professors and said we'd like a legal expert like you to be in the Constitutional Court and we'd be happy to support you as judge of the Constitutional Court. Then I'd believe and report to the candidates, the professors of legal science. But in this way, when they have passed completely non-transparently, not taken into account and have not been found as candidates among the 10 candidates of the Croatian Parliament, so the message sent to them is not acceptable, you are not similar, you will not be selected You can pick up anytime you want. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46605	Another replica, dear colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46606	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Podolnjak, I may not have quite understood your debate, but three colleagues are all doctors of legal science, and I would especially like to point out Dr. Selance who doctored at the University of Michigan which is the top university in the world for legal sciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46607	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46608	Let me say that here in the Croatian Parliament we are now not talking about individual persons and individual candidates and it would not be correct and it would not be common. You can always talk about individual candidates when at a committee meeting or at consultations. Of course I appreciate my colleague Selanca, he was also a scientific recruit at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb at the Department of European Public Law. He's a doctor and he's not the only one and he's certainly a good doctorate at the University of Michigan. But my colleague's still young. In the German Constitutional Court, you have teachers who are professors there at that university. So they were probably teaching him there while he was at the study, at a doctoral study to doctor there. I'm talking about one quality at the German Constitutional Court, so these are teachers who have reached the height of their academic career. They are professors from the highest, most respected universities that are decants, visiting professors who truly know absolutely public law, European law, and who as such may be in such a court as the German Constitutional Court. Our constitutional judges, a few of them did doctorate, but trust me, it's far to the degree of a professor, a doctor of legal science. We who are in that branch know what a big difference it is from a doctorate over a doctor, an extraordinary professor to a regular professor. So there are several degrees that, at this point, are very much sharing, for example, and a colleague of Selanca from his colleagues in the German Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46609	Thank you. Third replica, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46610	Thank you very much. Professor, you're saying the Constitutional Court should be an institution where scientific experts in constitutional law are the most invaluable in Germany and in other countries. However, it is enough here to be from fellow Bačić from the place, to be Vladimir Seksa godfather, to be in the Assembly as Mr Davorin Mlakar or here Ingrid Marinovic from the Assembly Drito in the Constitutional Court named. And their proposal is the only one of those godmothers, and by that all these people have made a decision, these people have made a decision, i.e. a solution that killed Ivo Sanader in the INA MOL case that caused Croatia to lose its arbitration. Because if that verdict, which was a powerful verdict, had remained in force, but the fact is that the INA was committed to MOL in an enemy way, today would have solved this problem for me. But it's much more important than these, godfathers, than these academic titles, it's more important to be here in the bench, from the drito bench to the Constitutional Court or be best man to Vladimir Shakespeare. It's not a small thing. And be a colleague of Bačić's. And that's a big deal. Or be at the SDP Club who will agree with them and that will support it. That's why legal uncertainty is. That is why Croatia has suffered huge damage due to INA-MOL. As a result, the Law on War Profits and Privatisation and Conversions has been declared void. That's why today, the same reason 56,000 went to Germany alone last year. Legal uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46611	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46612	I thank my colleague Bulj, you mentioned, here's that verdict in the Sanader case. Two things are just about it. I'll do it again. The SDP colleagues publicly said so, publicly, so, according to the media, they communicated, so they wouldn't, they wouldn't want to see the judges who took part in the decision. It wasn't solved by some secret informal consultations. That's public speaking. There's a lead in the media. Then how do you explain that 2 out of 3 proposed candidates do not meet that criterion. Not one, but two out of three. And another thing. We still don't know who the judge was, the reporter in that case. Look, you don't really know who the judge was, who was making the decision. And when the media asked for the basis of the right to access information, they never got from the Constitutional Court about it. And that decision, in some ways, always comes back and we always call back on it and always hovers above us because of the consequences that we are now aware of. And that decision, which can be discussed from a professional point of view in one way or another. And a lot of people were discussing it about professional spheres. He has, of course, his own political dimension. But we'll discuss it in professional and scientific papers. But what's certain is the fact that this kind of agreement that goes towards the lowest political denominator, as I said, accept our candidate and we'll accept yours, is the worst way to fill the Constitutional Court. That's what we at the Bridge don't approve of.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46613	Thank you. Four replicas, distinguished colleague Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46614	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Podolnjak, as counterpart Bacic said, was indeed a competition, so anyone could have answered. I really can only conclude that many things are different with us than, say, in Germany, so there's no difference just in what you've analyzed. I want to know you're the same, you're moving around a lot in the professor's circles. You may know the reasons why none of the professors ran, and perhaps you could have motivated them to report to the competition and run. So, here's what I'm saying, I think people who really have competences have come forward, who are good candidates and that we chose between them who are really the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46615	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46616	Allow me now, esteemed colleagues, I still have some things to say that were the subject of conversation and consultation. We were already at the time of last year when I was chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and when we were actually conducting consultations in which we were in some way discussing that a number of quality persons could be in the Constitutional Court. And we've really talked to these people. Yeah, and talk to those people. Unfortunately, in the end they did not enter the narrow selection and were not chosen. In this year's procedure, I didn't participate because I wasn't chairman of the board. So, just as an ordinary member, I didn't even participate in those informal consultations anymore. So when they were, they simply crystallized the candidates, and in the process of a public call that lasted, were there obstacles, as I said, that representatives or board members from the largest parties would not contact those professors. That would be to be expected, but obviously from the beginning was the intention, that, now evident, the re-election, 2 or 3 members of the Constitutional Court who have been so far. It is now evident that the consensus was established at 2 and I know that it was also about that third current judge being a candidate. So, actually from the beginning, it seems to me that the concept was, to re-elected, the 3 existing judges of the Constitutional Court to which the term of office expires. And that's why you weren't looking for anything else. Two of them passed the third one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46617	Thank you. Next debate of the HDZ Representatives Club and distinguished counterpart Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46618	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Club supports the proposal of the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to elect three judges in the Constitutional Court. I support a part of the presentation of colleagues of Podolnjak and colleagues of Peja Grbin in part of the procedure and the procedure that preceded the election of Constitutional Court judges was transparent, available to all those candidates who met the conditions to report for a public invitation to elect judges of the Constitutional Court. And I believe that the choice of the Constitutional Court judges on the one hand respects the fact that they must meet the conditions laid down for the Constitutional Court's election, but that, on the other hand, given the fact that they are elected by Parliament, that they are elected by a political body, that the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court is a kind of political consensus that must be reached in order to be elected by judges of the Constitutional Court. And in this regard, there was a consensus between the largest political parties and a large part of the clubs on those ruling ones, there were oppositions reached on the Constitutional Court's election, which was eventually confirmed by a vote on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And in that sense, I agree, and I think it's a good choice that really selected great candidates, that maybe that choice was different and probably would have been very good too, but I said that constitutional judges are chosen in part clearly and by the fact that for their choice it is necessary and necessary consensus. It is very important and I appeal to our colleagues from the SDP, out of opposition, to choose, or to choose three judges tomorrow, so that the Constitutional Court has a full assembly, i.e. 13 judges. Namely, the fact that without three judges is difficult work of the Constitutional Court, since the Constitutional Court also works in six judges' councils, and then clearly that 10 judges can't serve properly, solve cases as 13 judges do. And that thus confirms the fact that since we filled out the full assembly of the Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Court has resolved several cases, that it is up-to-date, and that if it does not normally suffer from citizens of the Republic of Croatia who seek their rights if their constitutional rights are violated. It is therefore very important for the Croatian Parliament to elect three judges and thus complete the entire assembly of the Constitutional Court. For us in HDZ, I have already said this many times, the unacceptable blackmail that has been expressed for this SDP speaker that the election of constitutional judges will be tied to the position of the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament to decide on the establishment of an investigative commission. We believe that the Constitutional Court, with this Parliament, with the President of the Republic of Croatia, with the Government, with the Supreme Court as the highest part of the judicial authority, is one of the most important state institutions and the fact that it can work, that it is enabled to do quality work, there can be no reason to be blackmailed here in the Parliament of any club, any ruling majority for a certain decision which is not at that level the need for all judges to be elected by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, we also call on the HDZ Club when we have already achieved the most consensus between the ruling and the opposition clubs that, regardless of the fact that one point in the Assembly was less or more important, it can stop that choice. This is very important to us because it may be an impression that it was not also a decision to set up a commission, that perhaps another item of the agenda that we are deciding tomorrow... I would not now be guessing which one might be the point, but it could be, not the President of the Supreme Court is determined by another majority, but it is possible that another point would be a turning point in order not to go into the choice of constitutional judges. We therefore hold that it is necessary to raise above these party differences, that it is necessary to overcome this party's colour and that it is worth learning, to know the importance of a state institution such as the Constitutional Court and, in that sense, to select the judges of the Constitutional Court as well as to know very well how difficult it is to achieve a two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament, how it is necessary to find out among the candidates of those who satisfy both the left and right sides of the Assembly and that it is precisely for that reason that the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and to choose the judges of the Constitutional Court should be supported. Therefore, in this sense, the HDZ Club will support such a proposal to elect judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46619	Four replicas, first distinguished colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46620	Dear colleague Bačić, I didn't mean to take part in this debate on the Constitutional Court, there's Professor Bacic. The bottom line is much more competent, but I was encouraged by my colleague Jelkovac, but I haven't had a chance to replicate it, so I'm replicating you, so the candidates why my colleague Podolnjak didn't encourage the teachers to apply. So what happens when everyone knows it's a matter of some kind of political agreement and political preferences and, above all, some godfather's connections and friendships. So we have Mr. Sheparović who is the godfather of Vladimir Seks, he is together with, his wife and your wife are co-owners of the second largest company in Blato in 1902, so these are the ways in which constitutional judges are chosen. But while you're already calling for constructiveity, I've now seen the culture minister mentioned here during the debate on the Executive Law. It seems that all the ministers are here, the prime minister of the government has received one delegation today. There is no reason to show constructiveity, that all these amendments that are much more important to our citizens than this one here now are debated because it is even questionable in view of how much we have to discuss such an important topic, whether this is really appropriate, that the government meets and that the amendments that have been given during the debate on the Executive Law so that all that goes in favour of our citizens and that the President of the Republic has agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46621	Comrade Grmoy, you are aware that you have violated the Rules of Procedure and I ask you not to do so. This wasn't the topic we're talking about right now. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46622	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Grmoy, you are wrong, first of all, if you are alluding to the President of the Supreme Court because you did not mention the name of one of these candidates, then I must tell you that Mr. Šeparović has a brilliant legal and judicial career. That he became a minister of justice, a judge, was a great lawyer who defended our generals in The Hague long before he became the best man of Vladimir Shakespeare. So, yes, he defended General Markach. So Mr. Sheparovic had achieved his career long before that. You're not right either that we are, that my wife and his wife are owners, but that my wife and his daughter are shareholders in a company that has 280 small shareholders who are mainly employees or former employees of that company you mentioned earlier. Thus, independently of that, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system supported, together with one abstention, Mr. Šeparović and Mr. Selanec and Mr. Arlovic regardless of who is best man. And I think his choice had absolute support from the SDP club the same way he had from the HDZ club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46623	Another replica, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46624	My colleague, you have also said about certain criteria, and before the professor talked about certain criteria, it really turns out that the criteria are enough to be best man Vladimir Seks, the best man, to be there in the Chamber, and directly from the bench, last time we had Mr. Mlakar and Mrs. Ingrid, directly from the bench in the Constitutional Court. And Mr. Leco. If that's the criterion, if that's the only criterion, then we're wondering, we Parliamentarians are chosen as we are in a still unfair law by me because there should be more votes for an individual than just one. But the fact is that so much damage and legal uncertainty that the Constitutional Court has made this decision, I repeat to you the same thing, by a decision, by a solution that killed Eve Sanader's judgment in the INA MOL case that it was a disaster. Everything turns out to be fine. With this, even a law that should always be in force, means the Law on the Non-Aging of War Profits and Crimes in Privatisation killed. Now imagine the damage to the Republic of Croatia. And I will honestly tell you from the heart, the Constitutional Court is a body to which the people should trust, and for this reason they do not believe, for all these things, they do not believe. The key problem is, the people don't trust the Constitutional Court because of this kind of choice. Well, it can't just be a best man's relationship, so it's not "Cosa Nostra". Well, Bozo Petrov didn't hire a single man who was best man in his company somewhere, and this is about the Constitutional Court, so it was an affair, you got on your feet, it was thunder. And here's exactly a complicated best man's relationship, and I'm not going to list further parliamentary representatives who are godfathers with constitutional judges, but the fact is that it's a godfather's relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46625	Comrade Bull, please! Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46626	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know if you need to explain again what you've heard from me many times. First of all, when you mention the godmother, you forget that you tried to change the statute of Croatian Waters in Split to place the best man of the president of the Most. And from that position when you mention someone's godmothers, then be a little more careful. I told you earlier that Mr. Šeparović, long before becoming best man to Vladimir Seks, had done a great and legal and political and judicial career and for these reasons was appointed Judge of the Constitutional Court and then later became President of the Constitutional Court. But I don't need to defend him, he's protected by his career and everything he's done. And as for the concerns about who the Constitutional Court judge is, I'll repeat that the public call was open to everyone but the fact that career judges I think would be better off if they weren't in the Constitutional Court because it's better to be a Supreme Court judge, you have better terms than a Constitutional Court judge. The Constitutional Court judge has a term of 8 years, a term of 8 years, after 8 years, if he can't retire, he has the same problems that we officials have after we carry out our mandate and when it comes to conflict of interest and when it comes to returning to a new job, shares the same fate shared by other state officials. Therefore, this is one of the reasons why several career judges are not in the constitutional court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46627	Thank you. Third replica, esteemed colleague Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46628	Comrade Bačić, here I am from this debate so far can only be familiarized with this call by Professor Podolnjak, which among the constitutional judges we do not have a professor of constitutional law. Because if we compare this current debate, we see that the painful difference between those who should protect constitutional categories is constitutional judges and politicians. Politicians can use terms like you said, it's about blackmail. Politicians can use it even though I'd be glad not to use it and move within categories belonging to genealogy, that I find out some kind of genealogy tree, to learn about the social potential of individual parliamentary representatives, and that's not a constitutional category. And it's clear to me that you are neither responsible nor guilty of the fact that the professors of constitutional law have not come forward, but I hope that you agree with me and Professor Podlnjak in order to be extremely useful, it is necessary that at the Constitutional Court they be a professor of constitutional law, and not because of anything else, even though they have knowingly differed with the Constitutional Law, which was an integral part of their traditional apparatus as we discuss blackmail and two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46629	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46630	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Vučetic, so I can agree with you that it would be good for a part of the Constitutional Law professor to be in the Constitutional Court. However, to compare the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Germany with the constitutional court of the Republic of Germany, which is if I am not mistaken by one of the best constitutional courts in the world. It's a little pretentious, we're in a lot worse than Germany, so I guess we can be worse when it comes to the Constitutional Court's assembly. But let's not even measure ourselves with Germany because it's not only a problem that the Constitutional Law Professor is not a Constitutional Court judge, let's say my colleague Podolnjak, which I have no objection to is a professor of philosophy who is a professor at the Department of Constitutional Law. And I don't see anything controversial here, I think Professor Dolnjak is a good professor, but he's not a lawyer. And he works as a professor of constitutional law at law school. Maybe it couldn't have happened in Germany either. But I don't honor the professor. Well, then it would be good if maybe neither of you when you look at it, you see that we are not yet Germany, I hope that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Germany will eventually become quality, just as it is the Constitutional Court in Germany, but I have reiterated, therefore, the fact is that no teachers have come to the competition except for one for which we all call on the need of the Professor of Constitutional Law, interestingly no vote has been received by that professor. I do not think the professor is bad but I repeat that the choice of constitutional judges is except for the conditions that must be achieved, and that they have achieved a certain quality legal career because they are part of a political agreement in Parliament and therefore these judges are state officials and have this political position on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46631	Thank you. The fourth replica of the esteemed colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46632	Yes, we are actually constantly returning to this most common argument that we need this political consensus, that two-thirds majority that is difficult to create and which was first reached last year, now again and now for a long time we will have the Constitutional Court as we will, practically for the next seven years when the 10 judges of the Constitutional Court will be re-elected. So, for a long time, we'll have a constitutional court like this and that's why the sadness is that political agreement, a consensus that I don't dispute is difficult. The year after 2010, they spoke when the constitutional provision was found in the Constitution, so in a change to the Constitution, it would be impossible to reach such a consensus. Of course, it makes me happy that this consensus exists, in which it is to say that it is so difficult to create it. But what you need to say is, unfortunately, it's not just the lowest common denominator. That some more standards of excellence were to be incorporated into that consensus, so I say that there are some segments of these legal professions that should be found in the Constitutional Court for the pluralism of the Constitutional Court. There are judges and lawyers and professors, and there are people who built a legal career in the Croatian Parliament. That's missing, so there's no balance, and that's what we resented actually in this consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46633	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46634	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, I appreciate you, but I don't understand you. You're talking about something pro futuro. You speak and follow and I read what you wrote. When we last elected Judges of the Constitutional Court, I read what you wrote about the way constitutional judges were elected, and I can agree with that. I also think it might be better if a number of career judges were in the Constitutional Court, a number of professors, lawyers, lawyers of other sciences, etc., but at this point it's not the case. In order for this to happen, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court should be amended and you are aware of that. I can agree with you that it can be one mandate, that a date can be chosen for 12 years. I can agree with you, but if you don't have it now as an argument because you don't have it, you don't support those who responded to that competition that can only be in Croatia. So you're not going to choose judges because we don't choose them by some law that doesn't exist. I think you're absolutely contradictory. You say are they bad or are they good? If they're bad, don't support them, if they're good, support them, but don't say I won't, I won't support them because we don't choose them by that model that I think would be the best. That model's gone! We agree to initiate the procedure, make this model that may be good and I believe it is good, that a certain number of judges be of one piece of legal science, the other part of the legal profession, etc. etc. Well, maybe even if their mandates didn't match, but in a certain way, at some point in time, they weren't chosen at the same time, so that at some point, we wouldn't have to choose 10 judges to avoid the problem of constitutional and legal order in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46635	Thank you. We have an individual discussion. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46636	One but worth it! Your Honor, Mr. President, I was on the phone in five minutes but I was so inspired by this debate that I had to extend to 10. If it's not enough, I'll be in touch in five. Namely, first of all, what we heard. So, as far as Germany and the Constitutional Court are concerned, I'd say it like this. When HDZ is like CDU, then our Constitutional Court will be similar to the German Constitutional Court. We're already at this level of the SPD, so that's one thing. Other as far as the lawyer is concerned There are social Democrats in power, and here are some who have been on our list of powers. [[Intruder President: They are in power.]] He's got them! Secondly, as far as the Constitutional Court lawyers are concerned, I think there are too many of them, i.e. I don't think a provision in which only lawyers can compete for constitutional judges is good. Although it doesn't say anywhere in the law and the Constitution that you have to work at the Foreign Ministry to be president, prime minister or president of the Parliament, so it's our brother's fate lately. So, this and as far as I am concerned, the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, since I am also a member of that committee and that I voted in favour of all three judges, then I will also vote once in favour of the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. And since this has become a little complicated for daily political reasons right now, let me tell you President-in-Office of the Parliament we won't be angry if you don't put this item to the vote tomorrow, and no point of investigation unless you intend to accept an investigative commission, then you can put both of them together. We won't object to you. [[Intruder President: You can explain it a little, you won't be angry.]] It would be rational not to do that, because you would reduce the space for a deal on this second point. But good. It's an official position until it changes. [[President: This is the official position?]] You know that changes are common You've changed your position on the investigation committee, we're on constitutional judges, so now until someone changes again. [[Break president: Let me know if it changes]] But we'll let you know about the change of attitude so you'll feel better. This concludes, therefore, the Constitutional Court's choice under the provisions of the Constitution adopted in 2010 on the need for the Constitutional Court to elect members of the Constitutional Court to be elected by a two-thirds majority after we were frustrated as the opposition at the time that the HDZ had each managed to assemble 77 to configure the entire composition of the Constitutional Court in 8 years. It was then done in the assembly of the Croatian Parliament from 2007 to 2011 under the conductor stick of then-President of the Assembly of Mr Sheks. And he did it every time, and so does Mr. Stazic. So each time he managed to get 77 votes for constitutional judges, although every time it was a drama. It happened once that 79 MPs participated in the election, and they all got those who were supposed to get 77 or 82, but they were numbers. We assessed when it was a debate on amendments to the Constitution to make it a condition for the election of constitutional judges and thus prevented ourselves from choosing in 2015 almost the entire composition of the Constitutional Court with the majority we had then. That's not bad. Secondly, all objections to the Constitutional Court by the Most for one decision, I would remind, however, that the Constitutional Court did not make the decision that we chose last year in the composition, but the one chosen by the old provisions. And that these provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the two-thirds majority as a result, in my opinion, have so far the highest quality composition of the Constitutional Court in the history of an independent Croatia, where me and my colleague, Grbin, are discussing whether the composition under the chairmanship of Mr. Crnić or this one was better now. We can have this debate. And quite certainly, when we choose these three judges, then we'll have some better composition of the court than it is now from our perspective, because in fact, one judge that we consider to be better quality than I want to hurt the current judge who's going to stop the mandate, and it's not proposed. Secondly, as far as decisions of the Constitutional Court in the new constitution are concerned, I believe that the judges we then chose are justifiable, that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are good. I personally disagree with only one decision, and that is their assessment that the provision of the Constitution on the prohibition of conduct is met, that because of the condemnation of serious criminal offences on the prohibition of the conduct of certain duties, so-called. Lex Vlahusic, I think that's where they misjudged it. But that's why they're judges, not me. Therefore, they have assessed, received the Parliament's trust and it is our job to respect that decision. Since this is when we declare these three judges, this story with the Constitutional Court will temporarily end for the next seven years, and counterpart Bacic said it is difficult to achieve a two-thirds majority. But it seems to me that in the last year it's been harder to achieve a half-way than a two-thirds majority. Less drama was about achieving two-thirds than the overhalf majority in the Croatian Parliament. That this is an opportunity to think carefully and discuss whether this constitutional law on the Constitutional Court is good. And not to be burdened by daily political relations, we change it in a way, perhaps in the direction of what Professor Podolnjak said, to try to reach consensus about it, and certainly to bring it into line with the existing Constitution, because Article 6 which speaks of the election of constitutional judges is not in line with the 2010 amendments to the Constitution. For Article 6(7) states that judges are elected by the majority of the votes of all MPs. And after that provision has been amended, it is doubtful whether it is necessary to remain in force to vote for each judge individually in such a procedure of agreement on judges of the Constitutional Court, so as not to discuss in the 9th month the order in which we will vote, because of who knows what it may be. So he would urge that the provision be applied or amended in a way that votes for such a proposal by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system in a way that all three judges are voted upon at once. When these judges were proposed in the number in which they were elected and when they were all proposed with 11 votes and no one else got one vote, those 11 MPs, members of the board who voted for judges, except, I think, Mr. Pupovac, voted for 1 constitutional judge more than 11 of us. Professor Podolnjak voted for three constitutional judges, he was the only vote for it. To conclude, I think that the change in the Constitution in 2010, the composition of the Constitutional Court, which was elected under that amendment in 2016 and which I hope will be elected in 2017, has justified that change, that it has increased the need to agree on large or major political parties, that the composition of the Constitutional Court is well balanced, that after a long time and an isolated opinion, which is not bad that we have an opinion, I personally like the isolated opinions of Judge Šumanović, not because I agree with them, but because the other 12 disagree with them. Because obviously that's what the court was discussing. And I think, therefore, that with this story, when we're done with it, that we're going to be able to devote ourselves to reconfiguration, that's the popular word of the Constitutional Court law, because it's been in force for a little while now and maybe it's more or less outdated. And once again, since there's a replica, I'll get a chance to move on. So, at some point, we're going to vote for this proposal by the Constitution Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46637	Thank you. A colleague of Bacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46638	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bauk, for three reasons, I answered the line. The first thing you're saying is that we're not in the CDU, HDZ isn't in the CDU, HDZ to say Ciro Blažević doesn't want to be in the CDU, but rather a little better than them. So, even if we were so good, we also show in this particular example, the election of the Constitutional Court judges that I don't elaborate much, and you know how much we have shown this democratic breadth and need to complete the Constitutional Court's call, but I will tell you that you are not the SPD, unfortunately, the Croatian SDP is not at the level of responsibility of the German SPD, because I don't think that the German SPD, because of some decision in the Bundestag, would not undermine the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Germany. The second thing, here, was the talk about the need to reconfigure and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, in order to partially respect Mr. Professor Podolanjak's remarks, and I would also remind all of us, and especially the respected professor, that his colleague from the Constitutional Law Department, however, the judge at the Constitutional Court, is Professor Mario Jelusic. Therefore, the Department of Constitutional Law and the Zagreb Faculty of Law is represented in the Constitutional Court, through co-worker and colleague of Professor Podolnjak, Judge Marija Jelusic. And I agree with you, colleague Bauk, that this Constitutional Court is doing well, we follow because the verdicts that have been made have been widely accepted in the Croatian public and in the case of francs and in the case of abortions etc., etc. There were a lot of difficult judgments, but I would remind all of us, I didn't comment earlier that the previous council had made a number of decisions, so, for example, if we were to mention Eve Sanader's decision, I remember and I followed that professional public, did not dispute that decision of the Constitutional Court, no matter what I or you thought of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46639	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46640	Okay, as far as comparisons with sister parties and other countries are concerned, so your sister's party is this and Vukichev's, and yet, you're better than them, here's what we have to give you. And as far as the CDU is concerned, we'll keep an eye on that. So, and otherwise when you mentioned Judge Jelusic, if memory serves me well, at the last minute the HDZ leadership tried to change him with a gentleman, as he was called, from Vinkovac, yes. So let's say we vetoed the SDP on it, so HDZ returned that decision to Mr Jelusic. So when Professor Podolnjak talks about the smallest common denominator, mathematically, it's not true. Still, there's a multiple in that, not the least common denominator. And on the other hand, and now HDZ during the debate on judges, so we were inclined, that is, to predict that Mr. Šeparović would be the choice of HDZ and we were right. We democratically chose our colleague Selanca as our choice and left room for about 3 judges to agree on, we did not accept one proposal from the HDZ, the second proposal was accepted. However, if it had been the other way around, maybe they wouldn't have accepted one of our own, so they would have accepted another, but had a full proposal, the court would have full composition and, in that sense, I think that as the Croatian Parliament in the past and this meeting, we have completed one job which is or will end one business that is above the daily political calculation, and the circumstance that this court system can work for a total of 3.5 months gives us room for some other talks about some other points, so we use that space and that is legitimate right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46641	Thank you. Another replica, dear colleague of the Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46642	Thank you. I see, in the end, that my presentation and the comparative comparison of the German and our Constitutional Court led to the fact that there was a colleague, Bauk, who found this comparison between the CDU and the SDP, in fact, two key parties in the German parliament, who decided to elect judges of the Constitutional Court to what he said when HDZ would be CDU, and then we would be the SPD. But I have a proposal for both parties, since this is what you belong to these European parties or the general party or the Social Democratic Party, to go to your colleagues from HDZ to the CDU and ask them why you choose such constitutional judges as you choose, why you in the CDU propose professors and those judges, according to which criteria, why you don't propose your colleagues from Bundestag or someone from the ministry. The same should be asked by fellow SDP colleagues from the SPD in Germany, why they propose respected professors, regardless of what they may be looking for and some ideological closeness with the professors they propose. And then maybe that would be the best way to come to the conclusion of what kind of person you would suggest next time because I don't think we should change the constitutional law but just adopt some standards of democratic political culture that would actually lead to such candidates for the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46643	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46644	I think you'll be thrilled with your HDZ colleagues when I tell you that at least we and HDZ have someone to go to Germany. And who are you going to see at the Bridge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46645	Okay. This concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'd just like to recapitulate now, please, my colleagues from the SDP are important to me tomorrow for the vote. So this decision takes a two-thirds majority, given the SDP's position, we won't have that two-thirds majority and we won't vote then, but we'll leave for the fall session, for the start of the autumn session to go with the vote on this point. At the same time, if I understand you correctly, the SDP as proposing a point on the Agrokor investigative committee also believes that since it has tied the SDP president to leave that vote in the fall. I mean, tomorrow we have a vote I'd like to be clear about is that okay? Okay. Thank you. We now move on to the proposal for a decision to elect three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the applicant submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Please, let's vote. I find that with 124 votes in favour and 5 votes against, or voted to hold a debate on amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, we will then hold a debate on the amendments to the committees. And I would like to ask the proposer's representative to further explain the amendments, i.e. the amendments. It is the respected Željko Reiner, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46647	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. For the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, the Committee tabled an amendment, i.e. amendments that are logical in nature. Namely, on the occasion of a decision on the election of 3 judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, three elected judges are ordered to take office on 21 July 2017. As of course that date has passed, then the Committee has given two amendments to point 2 which is amended and reads: The elected judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia will enter into office on the date of entry into force of this decision, i.e. point 3 which is amended and read as follows: "This decision shall take effect on the first day of its publication in the National Journal." Here are these amendments, so please accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46648	I thank my colleague Reiner. We have a discussion of a club, it's a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar, on behalf of a living wall representative and a SNAGA. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46649	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have found ourselves in a unique situation because the Agrokor case exposes all the corruption of our political scene. And why is that? Because the problem is not Ivica Todorovic, you are from HDZ and SDP and everyone who supported each other because you created it. The institutions you ran have also failed the system that has led all of Croatia to ruin both monetary and economic, so you have created it. What you're trying to do by blaming Todorovic is take the blame off yourself, take the blame off yourself, say here he is Pedro, he's guilty of everything, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46650	Comrade Pernar, just one second, I'm sorry. So we've changed the agenda point, now we're talking about selecting judges of the Constitutional Court, not more about the Agrokor committee, so here I'm just drawing attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46651	The Honorable Chairman. I appreciate your intelligence, I do not question your judgments and opinions, but I am sorry that you do not notice that the debate on the election of constitutional judges was directly related to the Committee on Agrokor or conditionality on the establishment of the commission and that without establishing the commission of this let us say other points of the agenda or vote there would be no. So to talk about the second wheel, first I have to look back on it, and that's the first point. So it's not the second point separates from the first point, and I don't understand why you came into my word during my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46652	My colleague Pernar, esteeming your intellect, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46653	Thank you, Chairman. So the summum of the whole story tax control, tax supervision in Agrokor did not exist, audit reports were faked, criminal charges were raised, Todoric I remember when the grain from Đakovština disappeared. There have been countless criminal charges against Todorovic Ivica, you all know that, and all these criminal charges have been gathering dust in the DORH drawers for 20 years, so in the DORH there are criminal records from drawers that there are against Ivica Todorovic nothing is being processed. They were employed in Agrokor by all possible HDZ and SDP personnel, starting with the wife of Mr. Greek to the son of chief state attorney Dinko Cvitan who works at a company composed of Agrokor where there were most crimes, so in Konzum and who was the manager there to Željko Rohatinski's former governor. So what do I mean by that? Master Ivica Todorovic has been infatuating your wives, mistresses, friends, party colleagues, etc., perhaps even lovers I don't know, and you have protected him and walked into his hand in return. So I'll never forget when a colleague here in the Parliament told me Ivane all the assistants of the economy minister before me were employed after going off to Agrokor, and I didn't because I didn't do what the boss wanted. What they're going to say is that those who were employed in Agrokor were not employed because of their intelligence or expertise but because they were doing what the boss wanted them to do. And now you're starting that commission, the same people who worked with him, the man I forgive, Mr. Maras Gordan, I have nothing personal against you, but you were the Minister of Economy, you were the Minister of Economy. Said Maras, he said he wanted to be, but he didn't. You know what I'm going to tell you, you've all been with Todorovic, all of you, you've all been with him and you've defended him. Not only did you defend him, but you did censorship on HRT, none of his affairs, no criminal record of him on HRT could be debated. Why couldn't it have been discussed on national television? She wrote state television about me going to school and taking pictures with my students, and it was reported to all the bells.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46654	Comrade Pernar, you give at least a little connection to the Constitutional Court, this is really going away from the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46655	But you see, now you're my esteemed chairman, and your colleague doesn't interrupt time, time is running out, and you're to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46656	But don't stick to the subject, it's just a problem. I'd really leave you alone, but let's stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46657	Mr. Jandrokovic, I've already had a fight with your predecessor who ended up taking me out of the Parliament. I won't bother with you. Please let me talk all the way. Thank you. So, this commission would only make sense in case it could be members of the commission who have not worked with the boss so far, those who have had nothing to do with Ivica Todorovic, those who were not in power at the time of his criminal operation. But the members of this Living Wall party in this commission are not welcome. You ever wonder why they're not welcome, why they bother? They bother because they're the only ones who will point to all your hypocrisy, all your double criteria and all your corruption, that's the essence of the story. So the role of this committee will not be to reveal the truth about how the institutions were corrupt and how they worked with the boss and how the politicians sitting in the Parliament and in those parties who worked with the boss were working with him, but the aim of this commission is to be all laid on him and eventually ate the wolf donkeys, nothing. No one, ladies and gentlemen. And I repeat once again, the problem is not Ivica Todoric but those who made it possible for him, which is you. The choice of judges of the Constitutional Court or the condition of establishing a commission as a prerequisite for selecting constitutional judges means farce, farce whose purpose is to show the people, a show for the citizens that the SDP cares more about the truth. So if they cared about the truth, they would process Todorovic when they were in power, the DORH would function, etc. Oh, my God, they were choosing the attorney general, but of course that didn't happen. And thus, this election of constitutional judges is a continuation of the policy of continuity, a policy that frees a criminal organisation at the highest level, which liberates Ivo Sanader, who liberates all political crime all of his responsibilities. With this election of these Constitutional Court judges, this policy will continue. Croatia is the only country in which the rightful convicted party for crime, or that it functioned as a criminal organisation, is in power. Of course, you will say, the verdict has fallen, and the rulings against HDZ always fall, always the processes go on forever, always go on against HDZ's criminal charges in antiquity, etc. Well, that's what we had a chance to see. After all, ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand how after all this you have the courage to go among the citizens and look them in the eye. If I were you, I couldn't look the citizens in the eye. Because what you did to them, this where you brought the Croatian state, you led people to the edge. Yesterday, a man blew himself up with a bomb in Split, says this judicial system is not working. I remember Ivan Hadjasia, a milkman who also blew himself up with a bomb because he was left without a house because of a loan he took to encourage the state. You've ruined the village, people are running away from the country, they're running away from the country. 200 thousand people have gone from Croatia minimally. You're the one who led to it. And Einstein said that those who caused the problem couldn't solve the problem. Ladies and gentlemen of HDZ and SDP, who brought this country here where it is? Who brought Agrokor where he is now? Well, it wasn't someone else who did it except you. And now you claim to have a solution. So which solutions are we talking about? What kind of solutions are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? You'll get Croatia out of the crisis? You will, as Colinda said, say Croatia will be the richest country in the world. I mean, they're your fairy tales. Sad is he who trusts you because he will be disappointed. The sad one is the one who trusted you because you already let him down. And unfortunately, all of what you're doing is the biggest tragedy in all of this, this wrinkling of the people. You work with his silent support. For the people do not only support you because they go to elections and votes for you, but also because they do not go to elections and thus agree to the status quo, or agree to the continuation of this debauchery policy that leads to the disappearance of themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46658	We have two replicas. Dear Greek fellow, you're the first, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46659	Thank you, Mr. President. So this isn't because of you fellow Pernar, I mean you and by picking up the papers, whether it's true or false, you're doing it here and it's your job, it's OK. However, for the sake of the public and the citizens, so since the topic has appeared several times already where the Greek wife works, I guess you shouldn't be working anywhere, that would be best while I perform this function. So she's an employee of the Press, a company that was outside of Agrokor until a few years ago, so over 20 years ago she works in the Press, and then Agrokor bought the Press a few years ago, and then she became a member of Agrokor group. And the other thing that's important, so never a colleague of Pernar, we're 5 meters away here, so you could ask me if you were interested, so she never performed a single management function, not a top manager, not a middle manager, not a lower manager, but an ordinary employee like 30 thousand, 35 thousand other people in Agror. Is there still work to be done because I'm sitting here? Come on, buddy Pernar, be serious next time and at least ask me what the situation is. I'm going to be very happy to tell you the open truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46660	The answer to my colleague Pernar's line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46661	Dear Mr. Greek, your expertise and ability is best spoken of by the time you were dean of the Faculty of Economics in Split and when you have the funds of that university, a multimillion-dollar tool at the expense of a bank that will soon fail and the university has lost those funds. That's what you know. And I'm at the Adriatic Bank for a couple of months, i.e. on the TV Adriatic, a few months before the bank went bankrupt, etc., warned that it had no capital adequateness. So much for expertise, etc. And as for your statements, you said at this point it was crucial not to spread bad news about Agrokor and watch out for another thought that Agrokor must survive. In the context in which you spoke, it could actually mean only one thing that Ivica Todoric must survive. And what function your wife is in, I'm not attacking her because or because of you because she works in Agrokor, I'm attacking you because you said you shouldn't spread bad news. And what you thought at that point under the bad news were basically true news and you were bothered by the truth because you wanted to cover it up and you've been doing it together with HDZ for all these 20 years. And while you were a minister... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46662	Please don't throw it away. The second replica is the esteemed colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46663	Comrade Pernar, you were right when you spoke, no matter what you were interrupted by the President of the Parliament, because simply this point of the Constitutional Court was conditioned and the whole public knows and that there was a circus here on Friday in the Parliament, that it was conditioned by most, i.e.. or from the SDP and that these two majority parties were in opposition because the opposition essentially brought these things together. And that's just a reflection of the situation where we're talking about the Constitutional Court, about people who should be key people, key institutions of the Republic of Croatia, in which they tend, i.e. how it is traded as in towels or markets around constitutional judges and this is the result of today's situation in Croatia. I agree with you that, at the very least, it is incorrect, unfair of the majority of both the SDP and the HDZ, the SDP of the proposing SDP and the majority of the HDZ parties, which has not contacted you and which one of you is not in the commission. That's why I voted against this committee. But I really thought that Mr. Ivan Lovrinović was your representative because you were on the list together, but obviously the truth is different, and obviously you've been bypassed by colleagues from HSS, which is ultimately incorrect, and you rightly have to boycott until the end you've been elected and the representative and your club has the right, has representatives in this biggest economic crime in Croatia's history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46664	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46665	Dear fellow Bull. We can outwit each other on a personal level, but that personal outwitting, political bickering, that's the second-row issue now. What is crucial is that HDZ and SDP are not working on an investigative committee to shed light on the truth, but are working to hide it. That is, to transfer guilt and responsibility from yourself and insinuation to one man. So I ask you, how is it possible that one man is above all institutions? How is that possible? How is it possible that no institution can do anything to him? From the tax administration to the property management office to the state's attorney's office. So it's obvious he was protected, but on these topics, about who was protecting Ivica Todorovic, who allowed him to do what he was doing, who made it possible for him to buy off companies in debt, then write off his debts, etc. This is not to be discussed on this committee. There will be a stretch of that let's say bear capital, with consciousness, beware which, so that bear capital, the question is when will it come to Croatia. So he left Croatia, not because it is better for him to live, but in the castle, in the mills. He left Croatia because he knows that he's being arrested here and the question is when are you gonna put him in there for a chair and talk to him? The question is, even if an APB were to be signed, the extradition process would take a long time. You will see that in the essence of this political farce, the creation of a vision in society, that HDZ and SDP together want to shed light on and solve problems, but it is as we all know far from the truth, that is, the truth cannot be further from that than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46666	Thank you very much for this replica regarding the selection of three judges of the Constitutional Court. And now, on behalf of the Advocacy Lists' Club, the Honorable Representative Robert Podolnjak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46667	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the choice of 3 judges of the Constitutional Court and according to the announcements, there is a consensus, the 2 largest club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, that this choice will be made and that the Constitutional Court will be fully completed and that it will count 13 members. We know that 10 members were elected last year, from the current 3. So the Constitutional Court will be able to function fully for the next seven years. It is a long period of stability for an extremely important institution that will be able to decide on full composition for almost two full parliamentary mandates. Let me say what I think is right first. It is good that the Constitution prescribed 2/3 of the majority to elect judges of the Constitutional Court passed the exam. So what many thought would be impossible, it proved, however, that consensus could be reached and that it was possible to select all 13 constitutional judges by that demanding qualified majority. But what we think in the Independent Lists Bridge is not good, that's the fact that there's been a consensus, we would say on the fundamental lowest common denominator. And this will say that they have been elected, that they will be elected candidates who, in our opinion and last year, and even now for many things, do not meet those fundamental criteria of excellence that should characterise each elected judge of the Constitutional Court. We believe that this is an ideal opportunity, when the Constitutional Court is complete, when a full 7-year-old is assured that it can function in full composition. That this Croatian Parliament, especially the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, should proceed in the procedure of amending in particular the constitutional law on the Constitutional Court. Perhaps in a smaller part of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which will make the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court such that at the end of the procedure for 7 years, we can choose the best and most excellent candidates for this extremely high duty. Now, unburdened, possibly candidates in some recent period in this term, even the next parliamentary term, I think it's an ideal opportunity to open up a public debate, open round tables. That the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, indeed takes this time seriously into the business of changing the way judges are elected by the Constitutional Court. Let me point out in this sense several important topics that we would like to see as the subject of debate. First and foremost, we would like the Constitutional Court judges to carry out their duties during a term of office without the right to vote. Unfortunately, we are now witnessing that part of the Constitutional Court judges is re-elected and that in the new composition of the court we will have 4 out of 13 re-elected judges. However, this shows that it would not be impossible to agree and amend that provision in the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, that the judges of the Constitutional Court have one non-repealable mandate in order to absolutely guarantee their independence and that at any time during the course of their term of office they would not have to calculate how their decision on a certain law on the assessment of the constitutionality of any regulation would be reflected on whether they would be re-elected if they were to run for a new choice for judges of the Constitutional Court. It's just not good. Examples of modern constitutional courts show that the best solutions are that judges do not have a new mandate and are chosen only once. The best Constitutional Court in Europe, the German Constitutional Court in this regard, has also changed the election procedure. German constitutional judges were elected and could be re-elected, but by changing the law they have an unrepeated mandate. Your example is also the European Court of Human Rights, in which judges also have only one single mandate precisely because of their independence. Secondly, we would appeal in this regard if a mandate were accepted unrepeated, that it could be somewhat longer. A range of between 9 years is the mandate of judges of the European Court of Human Rights and the maximum 12 years of office of judges of the German Constitutional Court. We leave this to the public debate. What is particularly important should be laid down very clear criteria for candidate excellence. It's not enough as it says in the Constitution now that they have to be prominent lawyers. We are witnessing that this feature, this feature, that description of the prominent lawyer served unfortunately to elect candidates who met only one condition, which is that they had a minimum of 15 years of legal work. We would like to seriously reform the motion procedure for the Constitutional Court judges. So it is also clearly stated in the profession in the public several times, that it is not good for candidates to propose themselves, that the least we can do is to be proposed by certain important institutions, that they be institutions such as the Academy, the Faculty of Law, that it can be, for example, from the law of their association, that they can be political parties, that they can be the highest courts, such as the general session of the Supreme Court, that it is in this way that we amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. Because proposing the most important institutions should be one of the guarantees to propose the best candidates. It should also be thought seriously about avoiding the choice of candidates who were members of this Croatian Parliament immediately before the elections, because in the event of their election, situations occur that these newly elected judges must often be exempt from deciding on a particular one, the constitutionality of certain laws in which they have decided for themselves. If you will now watch the Constitutional Court's practice in recent years and in the last year you could see that in a series of decisions of the Constitutional Court you have an exemption from the decision of two or three judges of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, they must be exempted precisely because they participated in the adoption of a single law whether they were part of the parliamentary majority or part of the opposition. You've practically got a situation that we shouldn't have, and that the Constitutional Court decides in the brittle composition. In some situations, therefore, the Constitutional Court decides with 10 or 11 judges, not as many as it should be. So this is one of the reasons why we appeal that there must be one period between the conduct of the legislative function and the candidacy for the Constitutional Court judge. We expect that these and similar ideas, which will be presented by the constitutional and legal profession, will be presented by individual associations in the public debate, the Academy of Legal Sciences, the Faculty of Law and all others invited in this regard, will result in one better Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, which will have one of the best procedures of choice that we will all be proud of and after which we will truly be in a position to choose the most excellent candidates for the Constitutional Court. This is our sincere appeal to, primarily, two major parties without which consent and we cannot establish relevant conclusions in the Committee on the Constitution. We in the Most Independent Lists will not participate in this vote, because these principles for which we stand are not yet respected. We're not talking about individual candidates, but the selection procedure is the one we didn't accept, in which we didn't participate. When it is changed according to what we have stated then we will surely get the most excellent candidates and then we will vote for the new judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46668	There are four replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Glasnovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46669	Dear colleague, we hear a global mantra from tickal to Nepal in Croatia everywhere that politics without morals has no future, etc., and what about us? I wonder this, by choice of constitutional judges, is it possible that we have chosen for how many years left, right wing of the party, where are the security checks? We have indications that some of them will now be selected, the original one's document worked for... the code name Vrbik, one's been released, he stole the money. Where are these people's files? Some in the SUP in Belgrade, some in GNI, I repeat it here as a parrot. They're a threat to national security. It looks like the same to me as this commission here, the parliamentary commission we had before there, we now have a similar scenario in the commission facing the past as if the Sicilian mob were investigating the Sicilian mafia, what we expect here. But this isn't the past, it's the present. How many people here were co-workers. I have a document here that says that these people cooperated, that's how they cooperated, that code name they had, that expert cooks an informant, and 90% of them volunteered. They had these three here material benefits, very little... were compromised... What now is the Justice Committee, yet they made a questionnaire for those judges were in the party, they cooperated with the State Security Service, how much money they transferred outside. We tap in place, and we haven't solved the biggest corruption cases in DUUDI, etc., where the money was transferred out to bank accounts. You have 14 families with 17.5 billion kuna. And this is just another play, and the point of politics is human policy. It's said mentor here these heads with... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46670	A fellow Glasnović has run out of time. Thank you. There's no response to the replica. We're moving on to another, dear colleague, Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46671	Thank you. Dear colleague of the afternoon. In 2010, the Croatian Parliament amended the Constitution and determined that the constitutional judges were elected by a two-thirds majority. The larger parties have greater responsibility and they demonstrated it last year when we agreed on the biggest clubs, and di was the share of the vote in support of the part at the time of the ten constitutional judges participated in the Most, when we prevented the blockade of the Constitutional Court's work. And that is what we witness today when we choose three judges of the Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Court can work in full composition for at least 7.5 years to come. I believe that in seven years, whoever is then in Parliament will also be negotiating constitutional judges. Whether some procedural rules will change and adapt to new constitutional provisions should be seen. But I think and I am convinced that by completing this Constitutional Court with three new members, this composition of the Constitutional Court will be the best composition of the Constitutional Court we have had in the last 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46672	Answer to the replica of my colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46673	Thank you. Comrade Bauk, about whether this current council will be the best, that time will show. What I admitted to you in my presentation was only one fact, that there was this consensus of two-thirds, two big clubs that would allow their votes to choose, but I said it was a choice with the least common denominator and that you did not choose the most excellent candidates but only about those that you could agree on in political trade, especially last time. What I expected from you now in your replica to say will you as a representative club support these changes that I made in the presentation of the club of representatives, you just said you'd see about it in some future period. I would expect that in principle now you will take advantage of the opportunity when you said in seven, seven and a half years we have a complete composition of the Constitutional Court to go into these changes because otherwise you consider the current provisions in the Constitution to be good. I don't think they're good, and I'd expect you to say the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46674	Third replica, respected counterpart Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46675	Thank you, Mr. President. I just called to say what you just said to my colleague, Bauku. I am pleased that you, as one of the most recognised constitutional experts in the Republic of Croatia, have delivered this opinion on the work of the Constitutional Court, which I fully sign. So the Constitutional Court at this point is completely disproportionate to the reputation it should have as a Constitutional Court precisely because of the way it works in the past period, because of the way of elections, because of the résumés of constitutional judges, because of the affairs of the plagiarities of constitutional judges, because of the decisions that were in the doubtful conflict of interest, let's just say in the area of higher education and science. Therefore, this is a really good opportunity and I will, if I have any opportunity through my club, support your initiative to change some rules in peace over this period of seven years and to choose the most excellent people who will then have the highest reputation in the Croatian public for the Constitutional Court. Perhaps you were wrong that as a club you did not decide to support at least one of these three and thus show that among these three there is someone who meets all the criteria of excellence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46676	Answer to the replica of my colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46677	I thank you for your support, and I expect that this will be a full support in the future because we are going to launch the initiative very quickly to proceed in the procedure of amending the Constitutional Court Act. What I'm trying to say, and here I share my opinion with you, is that the existing composition in many things will not meet the expectations that lie within them and what your club president said. In fact, there are a series of judges now elected who, in a year to date, have not shown in any way that they belong in the Constitutional Court, not in any of their opinions, not in any separate opinion, in any step relevant, which we would notice and notice. Some of these judges did not point out anything at all except that very often they had to exclude themselves from the decision and actually do not participate fully in the work of the Constitutional Court. But the honor of the exceptions that I have observed, I will mention, for example, Judge Abramovic whose opinions I have read, particularly the opinions I have read, and I must say that it is a very good choice. I know it was a choice from the SDP and I congratulate you on that, but if there were at least a lot more of such choices, we would really have a quality choice of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46678	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague of Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46679	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I would have directed my word and determined that this form is satisfied, but this form represents indeed the continuity of a policy that is simply based on trade and not on the excellence that we seek. I just want to find out that this convocation and this choice can't possibly lead to that crucial role of the Constitutional Court, it's to be the guardian of the Constitution. And that's what we are, I'm sure everybody's aware of. Some elected members should not be at all in anything called a bound legislative authority, my deep conviction. In no structure, let alone in the Constitutional Court. So let me say it again, this is really a form that's satisfied and that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46680	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46681	Thank you. I am well aware of your bitterness with the composition of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and the fact is that we share that belief in the Most. In fact, we expected that last year, and now candidates who really don't have absolutely any supporting points that are truly the most excellent lawyers we can find in the Republic of Croatia will be elected. Those who are often praised for the media, those whose opinion is sought, who are prominent constitutional lawyers, but for a wonderful miracle, there is no room for such ones. For example, my colleague, Professor Sanja Baric, whom everyone will praise as a prominent constitutional lawyer whose opinion everyone will ask for, which opinion is highly appreciated but when it should be given a place that belongs to her in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, then there is no consensus for a wonderful miracle that such a most excellent person is elected in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. And I have given only one example that is completely obvious, unequivocal, which shows that just such persons who are prominent in legal knowledge, independent, free in thinking, will not be chosen in the Constitutional Court because they will never be subject to such an agreement. Unfortunately, this is the situation now and this shows that all those who are far less excellent or who do not have a single feature of the excellence we are looking for for the judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46682	Thank you, too. This is what we've exhausted the debate and I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to vote, first we're going to vote on the amendments. I am voting on the amendments to the first committee, please let's vote. I find that by the majority of votes, 113 votes and 13 votes against, we accept the amendment of the first committee, and it becomes an integral part... and then I will repeat myself. I find that most of the 118 votes in favour of, 13 against, we have accepted the amendment of the first committee and it becomes an integral part of the proposal for a decision to elect three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. I am now voting on the amendments to the second committee, please vote. I find that, by a majority of the 118 votes in favour, 13 votes against, we have accepted the amendment of the second committee and it is also an integral part of the proposal for a decision to elect three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Now we're going to vote on the Constitutional Court's election. Here you go, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46683	Dear Mr. President, in accordance with the inter-party agreement, we are proposing, therefore, by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, we are proposing a name-named vote on judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46684	Thank you. So we'll vote by name. Thus, I stress that the choice of Constitutional Court judges requires 2/3 of all MPs, so 101 MPs, this is in accordance with Article 126. The Constitution of the This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that representatives of the Croatian Parliament vote individually on each proposed candidate, so we will hold the vote in a way that the secretary will be given a plenary call and then the appointed representative will vote specifically for each proposed candidate to be read by the secretary. I'm asking the secretary to call the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46685	Alexic Goran. For Miroslav Šeparovic? For Matt Arlovic? For Goran Selanca? Yes. Grandma Ante. For Miroslav Šeparovic? For Matt Arlovic? For Goran Selanca? Yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46811	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's the final count, and now I'm going to read the decisions. I find that with 118 votes in favour, 7 against and 0 abstentions, Miroslav Šeparovic received the necessary majority of votes and thus elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. I find that with 116 votes for, 9 against and 0 abstentions, Mato Arlovic received the necessary majority and thus elected Judge of the Constitutional Court and I find that with 118 votes for, 7 against and 0 abstentions, Goran Selanec received the necessary majority of votes and thus elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hereby declare that we have chosen three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. I thank you and congratulate you all on that decision, but of course I most congratulate the elected constitutional judges. I wish them a great deal of success in their work and that they are responsible and honorably carrying out this responsible duty. Thank you again, everyone. That's what we're done with the vote and we're moving on to the agenda now. I suggest we take a 15-minute break because there won't be a break from half two to three but we'll continue to work, so it continues at 12:30. It's 12.15 o'clock. We move to a second point, which is: - Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the president of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal was submitted by the President of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 119 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Constitution is prescribed that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court and the competent board of the Croatian Parliament, shall, on a proposal from the President of the Republic of Elections and resolve the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The report of the Justice Committee is an integral part of the draft decision, so I would ask the Vice-President of the Justice Committee to give an additional explanation or to further explain the report. I'd like the vice president of the Committee of Mark Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46813	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament held at the 20th session held on 12 July 2017 and the continuation of the session held on 13 July 2017 discussed the proposal for the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by the President of the Croatian Parliament by the act of 10 July 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Constitution of the Republic's Republic President submitted a proposal for the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic. The Committee held a debate on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Croatia in the jurisdiction of the proposed candidate, Mr Djura Sess. Following the debate, the Committee, with seven votes in favour and one abstention, established a preliminary opinion supporting the proposal to elect the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46814	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first to answer for the word is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Robert Podolnjak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46815	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. If you will recall perhaps you who were here earlier in mid-June then I took a break on behalf of the club and warned that the Croatian Parliament had not yet discussed the election of the President of the Supreme Court in view of the deadline which was about mid-7th month and where we had no indication that the President of the Republic would propose a candidate until the end of the term of office of the current President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Hrvatin, who also functioned as president of the DIP. A constitutional article that defines the election of the Supreme Court president and is not very transparent. No, no, Article 119 states that the President of the Supreme Court, with the preliminary opinion of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the competent board of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Elections and resolves the Croatian Parliament. We now have a proposal from the President of the Republic, to get a few days before the end of this spring session. The proposal came in the light of a candidate who is proposed. The constitutional provision does not say anywhere whether the President of the Republic can propose more than one candidate. This proposal came without any particular explanation why this very candidate is proposed. The fact is that we were able to read in the media that talks were held, consultations with several candidates and at least 4 names were mentioned as potential candidates for the Supreme Court president. Why the 4 and not the other one, of course, is not clear. According to the constitutional provision, the President of the Republic has absolute discretion to propose one person, one candidate of his own choosing, even without a particular explanation. However, that is the fact, that is how it is defined by the constitutional provision but we must say that we at the Most would like to go along with the proposal for a candidate for office of the Supreme Court president and a specific programme of work proposed by the candidate for the 4th annual period. It is enough to say that candidates for lower courts when elected by the State Judicial Council must provide a specific work programme for the period for which they are elected. We actually choose the President of the Supreme Court without any work programme, and we don't really know how the President of the Supreme Court sees this duty, whether he sees the need for certain changes in the structure of the judiciary, in which he thinks. Unfortunately, we have not discussed either the report of the current Supreme Court president, nor for 2015 or 2016, and it is quite certain that if there is an election by the President of the Supreme Court tomorrow that we will not even have the opportunity to listen to the previous president submit those reports. What we also think is not good is a fact and of course it is a matter of constitutional provision that the President of the Supreme Court is elected by a simple majority rather than a qualified one, at least most of all. Since a very late proposal from the President of the Republic came to the meeting of the Committee on Justice, certain questions were asked to the candidate, I am not a member of the board, was our colleague Vučetic, but what remains most noticeable in the public are certain issues related to the property card, with certain properties, candidates etc.. And there have been some unresolved issues related to these property cards from an even earlier period from, I think, in 2008 or some later years. And our member also felt it would be good to, given the duties of the Supreme Court President, who is extremely important in the principle of justice to be absolutely and unequivocally clear. There are no tails, any disputed question that could in any way question the integrity of a person who is elected for such a high duty that it is necessary to clarify to the end whether there are any objections related to the property card, the situation, with the application of certain assets or certain funds from the candidate for the Supreme Court president. And the question of how much we at the club were informed after today's session of the Justice Committee has not been resolved because the members of the board who asked for this information have not been received. I don't know why because I think anyone can also request the basis of the Law on the right to access information from the Ministry of Justice where they are now stored and property cards can request the property card of any judge. So from a certain period that is now stored by the Ministry of Justice. And what if that's what the media is asking for, individual citizens, associations, anyone? So within a certain period of time, a property card will be requested, therefore, as information. Even if it were also denied by the Ministry of Justice, which I doubt is a question of public interest, especially if it is the President of the Supreme Court, even if the Ministry would not accept and accept such information, there is a Commissioner for Information who, on the basis of a test of public interest, can judge that it is information of public interest. If that is the case, why should this information that is so relevant to individual clubs of MPs, including the Club of Representatives of the Most, why should this information not be made known to the competent committee and representatives of the Croatian Parliament in order to remove this opposition which, at this point, as some worm of doubt has surpassed the candidacy of a person who may otherwise be absolutely indisputable in his legal knowledge, the progress of the Supreme Court and everything else, ma and all the duties he has been acting? That one detail, the property card, led to the fact that MPs, members of the opposition committee, left the session and that the decision was actually taken by the parliamentary majority. I believe that we would not want in this Croatian Parliament, to elect the President of the Supreme Court, only by the votes of the parliamentary majority. I don't think that would be a good message. To be an overvote and to be, for example, with some kind of minimal majority of elected candidates. At the same time, I say, by duty, by law and by the president of the DIP. Why not remove this possible dispute over the property card that I believe will surely become available to the public in a relatively short time under the Law on Legal Access to Information. Why not remove that detail which is currently prone to the elections in order to remove any doubt that there is something that may have at some point been contrary to the law at the time, which required that certain government officials hand over their property cards and certain changes in the property situation that took place during their term of office. So we think that before the election, it would be good to remove it, because otherwise all MPs from the opposition ranks can be restrained in the election, which I don't think is a good message. To elect a Supreme Court president, a very good message to the public would be to make it as consensus as possible. If there is one doubt and property card from 2008 or 2010 or I don't know which year, which they discussed on the Justice Committee and if it exists in the Justice Department, it could be divided here tomorrow morning by all MPs and then any doubts would be removed as to whether there is any opposition in this regard or absolutely no doubt in the correctness of the candidate's treatment for the Supreme Court president. In this regard, I appeal to the parliamentary majority. If we don't get that information until the election, which I suppose will be tomorrow, we at the Representatives' Club would have to be held back during that election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46816	Thank you. Two are replicas, the first respected colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46817	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Povoljnjak, before the Justice Committee sat down and received Judge Sess for the hearing, I had the view that I would be abstention in the vote. And I was restrained because I told the media, I couldn't betray the media. I say something to the media, that's what I do. However, the controversy took place, and the controversy will remain until the property cards are placed on the table. They'll probably put themselves on the table someday. In these two days on the Justice Committee, I've had a certain little debate with Judge Sess and Judge Sess has assured me of my position. He made an impression on me that he might be a good Supreme Court president. The other thing is that the Supreme Court is currently in a difficult situation, there are a lot of cases that need to be solved, probably in some way and reorganized, and I will therefore vote for Judge Sessu, President of the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46818	Professor Podolnjak, you're a little late, but I'll do it. And yes, I haven't seen, I'm sorry. [[No, no, I've done it before.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46819	Yes, I did. Thank you. I have not spoken in any way about the right of any other agent and any other political party, you have personally attended this conversation with Mr. Sess and I have not in any way questioned his expertise, career, you do not come to a Supreme Court judge with all that is stated in the résumé, so it is absolutely not disputed. I believe he also made a good impression on you in that conversation to answer questions. But the fact is, it's not just about Mr. Sess right now. We are not talking about a matter of trust for any official and trust in the sense that he will report any property or not. That's why there's a law. The law requires all of us to fill out the property card, when we step on duty, when our duty ends, when something important happens, with our property, we have to report it. It's the law, the law doesn't count on our trust that we're going to do it and that we're going to be transparent. A clear obligation has been prescribed that we must all comply with certain legal deadlines and that is correct. The legislator doesn't count on trust. There are even sanctions. So we're simply saying, which is logical, that each of us has to transparently subscribe all the data on our assets and all the changes in that property and only what the MPs asked, including the representative of the club MOST, that this property card from that year is being substantiated and to see what is really the situation at that moment and the real state of property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46820	Second replica, dear colleague Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46821	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Podolnjak, when I picked up my plate, it was at the beginning of your presentation because I didn't expect you to actually dedicate three-quarters of the exposure to the property card story. I raised her inspired by the fact that you in some way disagreed I would say so with the way it was prescribed to elect the President of the Supreme Court. So you have actually expressed one position on which this is the President of the Republic, on which it proposes the presidents of the Supreme Court, and then, of course, it comes before the parliamentary committee, etc. Since you like to compare the systems then if we compare our system to the system in the United States where the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court are one though, it is difficult to compare it completely of course. Because their Supreme Court is also serving as Constitutional Court, but you know very well that there is also a president who is also proposing actually the President and members of their Supreme Court. They are, of course, going through the same hearing procedure in Parliament as they call it, that is, the talks. But no one is asking why the president suggested person A or person B and by what criteria did the President of the United States suggest it. So if we're doing some comparisons, then we can make that comparison. I reiterate the fact that their Supreme Court is, at the same time, the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46822	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46823	Now that you mention it, I think it's very difficult to compare the American presidential system where the president really proposes all members of the Supreme Court to what the Senate agrees on. But it's a completely different presidential system. It is our parliamentary and I really don't know why we gave the President of the Republic the sole authority to propose to the President of the Supreme Court and whose inspiration it was. We, for example, included the President of the Republic in the choice of constitutional judges. Interesting in neighbouring Slovenia, the president of the Republic proposes constitutional judges. We haven't done it in some other countries either. We have therefore not done so, we have only given the President of the Republic the right to propose the President of the Supreme Court. I didn't just say here why some other judges mentioned in the media didn't end up choosing the president, and he was the one who spoke to the public with his letter and said that he was giving up even though we didn't officially know he was a candidate. But I say, this parliamentary system wouldn't change anything in it if the President of the Republic, or the President, had no authority to propose the Supreme Judge. We could have handled it differently, but we don't have a presidential system like in the U.S. That's the key.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46824	Thank you. We are going to the second debate of the SDP Representatives Club and the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46825	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. I won't be long because there's not much to say here. What is the fact is that the ruling Croatian Democratic Union refused to allow the Committee on Justice and the entire Croatian public to make an insight into the property cards, i.e. reports on the property status of Judge Djura Sesse. In such circumstances, no one in his or her right mind in the Committee on Justice can accept, participate in a measurement decision. If we don't have complete information, then we can't even make an important decision like the President of the Supreme Court. However, this must not prevent us from saying a few words about Mr. Sessa. First, I'm going to refer to what the esteemed colleague was saying yesterday during a hearing with the Justice Committee. The esteemed colleague said that at the time of the disputed purchase, which he calls the transfer of the right of Agrokor for a total of 2 million kuna, there was no obligation to submit property cards. But that's not true. Another 2006. The Rules of Procedure of the Minister of Justice introduced the obligation to submit property cards. This obligation also existed in 2007 when a new Regulation was adopted and in 2010, when that Regulation was amended in 2011 when the authority for the receipt of property cards was transferred to the State Judiciary Council. But we didn't get those property cards. And if we had gotten them we would probably have seen what Mr. Sesa said yesterday and that is, perhaps some have forgotten in the spirit of those legendary challenges of the esteemed president of the former Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia that money is not property. That's how Mr. Sessa said yesterday that his claim based on a purchased apartment of over half a million kuna is not something that should be included in the property card. Oh, come on! I bought an apartment, I didn't sign it up for land books, so I'm not signing it up for a property card. Let me ask you all of you sitting here in front of me how long the procedure would take before the committee to decide on a conflict of interest, to have any of us try something like that. Very short and would end up with a nice fat and completely deserved punishment. But with Judge Sesse, that's a little different. But let's go back a little further to the past and remember that this is not the first presidential duty that the distinguished judge Sessa has run for, or is elected to. Somewhere in the mid-90s, when the judge in question returned from Australia, where he was on consular duty, he became the President of the Municipal Court in Zagreb at the same time. And what happens under its chairmanship, the largest court in Croatia, but also wider, because the Municipal Court in Zagreb at that time and later until it began to part in the Municipal Civil and Municipal Penalty, etc., was one of the largest courts of the first degree in Europe. What's going on in the '90s while he's the president of the municipal court? The biggest stalemate in the resolution of land and book items in the history of Croatia. Which certainly showed Judge Sesse's ability to work and chair a particular court. And today, as President of the Supreme Court, he will have to solve a part of the problem he created while he was President of the Municipal Court in Zagreb, but there is no end. She will remember HRT a few years ago reporting on the case of a Zagreb lawyer, who bought an apartment, tomorrow morning was the first in line for the grantovnica, to submit a proposal for a book, to find out a few days later that someone had come before her. And look at the wonders, and in this case comes the judge of Sessa as the person she was uraging, that this other land-book case be carried out. Asked for such treatment, then-President of the Municipal Court in Zagreb said that the procedure was written in such a way as to urinate for the implementation of a concrete land and book case, something that the President of the Municipal Court in Zagreb should not do. Not to mention, the election procedure for the Supreme Court president was conducted in a completely non-transparent manner. You will recall my debate over the election of the Constitutional Court judges, where we have seen a transparent procedure unfold. This is all the opposite of that. The President of the Republic doesn't have much constitutional obligations. In the campaign, she talked about everything and everything. She talked about the economy, she talked about moving, so none of it happened. But one of the constitutional obligations she has is to postpone the president, i.e. candidate for president or president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. And look at the wonders, he's known for exactly four years when he has to do it. And what does she do? I'm gonna need you to put this on the table at the last minute. On Monday, he suggested that we conduct the whole procedure by Friday and vote on it. And of course, in this process, we can't metrically discuss all this stuff. The more a political party, the more it makes it impossible for us to access the information we are entitled to. And I'm going to ask you one thing. After all I've told you, what other position might be the SDP's Club of Representatives, except to make it clear that Mr. Sessa's election as Supreme Court President would not and could not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46826	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Marko Šimic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46827	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, once again I warmly welcome you to the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, I will remind you of the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which in Article 119 indicates the conditions for selecting the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the President of the Republic of Croatia has the duty and obligation to postpone the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, on the proposal of the candidate, the General session of the Supreme Court, which is therefore delivered by the proposal to the Croatian Parliament, namely, the working body that is superior to the previous opinion, which is the Committee on Justice. At the very beginning, we heard what was the position, that is, of the opinion that the Committee on Justice gave on this issue. So, today, when we have previous opinions of the Justice Committee, when we have a proposal from an authorised applicant and when we have a previous opinion of the General Court session. When fulfilled by the Constitution, indeed all of the Constitution set out the conditions for selecting the President of the Supreme Court, it is essential to discuss that the procedure of proposing, the way of proposing is non-transparent and that it is not complete and that it is not carried out for this by the Constitution in an overlooked form and manner. I will also remind myself of the conclusion of the Justice Committee, from 12 July, so from yesterday, where the board with 5 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 1 v, reached the conclusion that the State Judiciary Council is requested to deliver all property cards, judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and that the attached candidate for the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Đura Sesse, and no later than 13 July 2017 to 12 hours for the continuation of the session which will take place, therefore, at 13 o'clock. This conclusion was tabled by me as a member, i.e. the Vice-President of the Committee on Justice, in order to bring together, in a peaceful debate with a truly sincere and sound intention, all of the issues and issues raised by the committee in the debate. After the Committee, therefore, and the HDZ Representatives' Club, who are involved in the work of the Justice Committee, received the property cards of the judge or candidate for the President of Mr Sesse. Once these cards really show the property situation from these property cards, we can be very sure that what Mr. Sessa was showing and giving information in his answers is that it fully corresponds to the state shown in the property card on the other page, to be more accurate and more precise. So after receiving the property cards, we felt that there was really no need to question and determine or search for other property cards of the Ministry of Justice for the reason why what we could read from the material we received really was a complete answer to Mr. Sesse's questions. In this proposal and all of its work on this subject and on this matter, the HDZ Representatives' Club is only one, it is truly unserious of all of us if we should elect the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia for the fall. I believe that it is our responsibility for the citizens to choose us to make difficult decisions and to act responsibly at the most difficult times. This is not the most difficult moment, this is just one of the political moments when the opposition has one position on one issue, and the other's position is trying to politicise it, but the election of the Supreme Court president is certainly not a subject for the politicised. I therefore believe that tomorrow we should approach this vote and the HDZ Representatives' Club will be for this proposal. In one part of my presentation, I must say that I agree with my colleague Dolnjak about the report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2015 and 2016. However, I would like to point out that Đuro Sessa, the Honorable colleague of the Supreme Court, has been a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia since 2008, and I am sure he is well aware of the situation of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that if the report is elected President of the Supreme Court, it will be submitted in one correct and transparent way and we really don't need to doubt that. After all I've said, all we have to do is discuss trust in the institutions of the rule of law. After hearing that authorised applicants on this issue, it is the President of the Republic of Croatia that their previous opinions give the General Session of the Supreme Court and the Committee of Justice that property cards have been delivered by the State Judiciary Council, so do we really not have the trust in the highest institution of government in the Republic of Croatia? For me as a young person, as a young politician, it is unacceptable and unacceptable. So I will personally, and I believe my club of representatives listen to my own conscience and my own reason, and tomorrow we will surely support this proposal by the president on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46828	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46829	We are now going to vote as announced in the announcement we gave you. The first item we vote on is the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal is the President of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. And I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of Đura Sesse as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. ... Well, we'll see the quorum from the vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I find that the decision was made by a majority of votes, 84 votes in favour, 14 abstentions and 33 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46830	We will now move to the next item, which is: - (a)The proposal for a decision on the resolution of the member and president of the Council for Electronic Media, - (b)The proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Council for Electronic Media, - (c)The proposal for a decision to appoint a president and part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media. This act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 68 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on electronic media. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, their report was received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed Kresimir Partl State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46831	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear fellow MPs, fellow MPs. The Law on Electronic Media provides for a procedure for the appointment and resolution of members and presidents of the Electronic Media Council. According to Article 68 of the Law, the Council has seven members, one of whom is the President of the Council, the President and the other members of the Council appointed and resolved the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the process of proposing members of the Council, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall publish a public invitation to propose candidates for members of the Council. The President and members of the Council shall be appointed for a period of five years and may be re-appointed. The Council currently has six members, since the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 25 September Alenka Lisinski has been dismissed from the duties of a member of the Electronic Media Council on its own request and no new appointment procedure has been carried out. Furthermore, the President of the Council for Electronic Media and the Director of the Electronic Media Agency Mirjana Rakic submitted a request for a resolution, while the mandate of the Council for Electronic Media, Vesni Roller, expired on 15 June. In accordance with that, but the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 2 March 2017. The Ministry of Culture shall, in accordance with Article 68(2). The Law on Electronic Media published a public call for the appointment of three members of the Council for Electronic Media and collected candidates' applications. By considering the above applications, the Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament to relieve Mirjana Rakic of the duties of the President and member of the Council for Electronic Media, and Vesna Roller, member of the Council for Electronic Media, and appointed Damir Hajduk as President of the Council for Electronic Media and Anita Malenica, Mr.sc. Davor Marić and Vanju Gavran for members of the Council for Electronic Media. Mr Damir Hajduk is currently a member of the council appointed by the decision of the Croatian Parliament, the Deputy President of the Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, given its expertise and successful work so far, he proposes to appoint him as President of the Council for Electronic Media. For the three members of the council, the government proposes to appoint the three candidates previously mentioned who made the public call and fulfil all the conditions prescribed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46832	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, will be spoken by the distinguished representative Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club is on the board today, we have had a lot of discussion with colleagues and colleagues about this and in principle of three proposed candidates and candidates with one candidate, the SDP's Club of Representatives disagrees for reasons that I will explain to you a little later. For one candidate, we had a delay for which the Secretary of State had actually assured us during the debate on the board, that is, he promised us and we decided to believe that it was a matter that should be resolved before the person was appointed to the administrative council. And for one person, we didn't actually have any objections. Before I move on to our comments on candidates and candidates, it should actually be said here that nearly a year and a half ago, Mirjana Rakic waited for the government of the Republic of Croatia to resolve her on the basis of her own request after what happened to her, a violent event that came to her as the leaders of a single institution, savagely offended her, and eventually no one was subject to any sanctions. I should say, I would repeat the words of my fellow Stazic, this morning from the board, which is that the character and the work and what Mirjana Rakic in her professional career has achieved over decades of her work will actually remain carved into Croatian history and in the history of journalism in Croatia. These people who came to her at the door that day shouting Ustasha passwords, handing in more spoons, these people are already forgotten today and in some future they will indeed become, in fact there won't be a fusce in history. So the SDP club is grateful to Mirjana Rakic for her service and here, we had to say that during this debate. As far as candidates and candidates are concerned, I would have come from Mr Matic, so the SDP club made an observation during the debate about the possible conflict of interest of Mr Matic, who is co-founder and co-owner of Radio Dalmatia, is also an HRT employee. And our question was actually addressed to the secretary of state during the debate whether it was appropriate and whether it was something that should be resolved. We have received an answer from the Secretary of State that such questions, therefore our understanding that the Secretary of State has admitted that the matter is actually justified but will be resolved until the appointment. So in this sense, Mr. Matic has conditional support, but I say a conditional SDP club. Our problem is actually with the candidate for the board member, Mrs. Anita Malenica. So, the objection we have is the Court of Honor ruling of the 2001 Croatian Journalist Society in which, in which it is considered an objection to Milanka Opačić, a colleague of Opačić for an interview that Ms Malenica had at the time with Ljuba Cesic Royce in which Mr. Royce actually made serious insults at the expense of various persons. So, here is clear not to mention that Vesna Pusic is an orjunasic, as the Stazics think that Nenada Stazic was on the side of the Chetniks, that Ivica Racan wants centrals to be re-established in Belgrade, how the government employs Serbs, Croats lose jobs, etc. Then how in the interview there are also truths about how, say, colleague Opačić was secretary of Jovan Raskovic, that part of SDP's representative works for UDBA KOS, etc.... I mean, that interview really did a lot of things that from today's perspective and from the perspective of what we've achieved in terms of journalism and public communication really wouldn't be correct. The one where the problem with Mrs. Malenica is that at that point she, in that interview, and I would remind here that the author of the text, was that interview or text of the answer for what was written that was not in that interview any delay and no fence showed according to what Mr. Royce was saying, however, she actually represented him as the star of the session. So no one immediately during the interview showed up against what he was saying. Because of these factors, the Council respected the objection of counterpart Opačić and in some way condemned the interview Mrs Malenica signed. I have here a wish to say that, of course, it was 2001, I believe and that it was Mrs. Malenica herself and I said that on the board and on the basis and mine at the end of the communication with her, I believe that we all change in a much smaller time and 16 years is really a lot of time and I believe that today from this perspective she would and she would do things differently. However, the fact is that in her C.V. there is this document, it has been signed since then by the President of the Journalist Council of Honor Sanja Modric. And we believe that a person who, from that moment on, is the only Association of Journalists and of their Council of Honor has such a verdict, that is, the procedure that could not have been a candidate and is not an adequate candidate for this function to which it is proposed. What is also important to say is that during the debate on the board, we found that for the start of the committee president, he was not informed about the existence of this. On the direct question of the Secretary of State whether it is personal and whether the Ministry of Culture has been informed about this, we have not received a definitive answer. The question is also whether they knew because if they knew, they might have decided differently. We would therefore suggest that someone else instead of Ms. Malenica, although I would like to point out again, this is not about the omni ad hominem, so this is about thinking that the person who has such footnote in his CV unfortunately simply has candidates and candidates who do not have such footnotes and that HDZ could have suggested someone else instead of Ms. Malenica. That's what I mean to make a very important point. So, in particular, the more the board president, in his own words, did not know about this during the debate, and I say I would not prejudge but it seems that perhaps such information was not available to the promoter at the time of the proposal. Well, we can't support Mrs. Malenica, and the other candidates, one on parole, and the other we'll support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46834	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46835	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The representatives of HDZ and coalition partners supported the proposal for a new appointment of the Electronic Media Council. We didn't mind this finding we discussed on the board. It was a little weird for us, I have to admit it was weird for me, that someone didn't mind, let's say, putting up for HRT director Goran Radman, whose ideal was television in the '60s and '70s. That didn't bother him running a public television service. They didn't mind forgetting to book a hotel in the property card, it was an adequate moral condition to run the HRT. And I have here a report from the Ethics Commission that many colleagues, and Mrs. Malenica herself, deny that it was an authorized interview. I'd be a very rich man if you'd sue all the press for authorizing interviews where people criticized me or attacked me. We have to make a distinction here. There's a journalist, and there's an editorship some time in a very difficult situation. I'm sure that each of us, each of us, some of us, some of our actions and some of our words after 15 years of experience, would have made us different, softer, smarter, more meaningful, but that's why we label someone not to be able to perform a post in the Council for Electronic Media after 15 years, and at the same time, until yesterday, we put in place a director of HRT a person who forgets to sign up in the property card of the hotel and then that Peja Grbin gives us a lesson on property cards for judges of the Supreme Court. Really consistent, so it's kind of weird for me. In this appointment there will be a problem over which I cannot overcome and understand and try to understand one finding of the Ethics Commission 15 years ago if I am not mistaken for years, and in the next point we are going to discuss it will be very important for the four judgments of different courts. That won't be relevant, and this is relevant, four convictions, that's not relevant, and this is relevant. I'm waiting for you. I have to ask what we're discussing here at the point. And speaking of the Council on Electronic Media, HDZ opposes every hate speech I have said on the board and will continue to oppose the Media Committee and all other committees led by the HDZ and has also debated in this assembly and outside this assembly. But esteemed colleagues and colleagues, this is a unique opportunity to evacuate a little memory of the appointments you've arranged for us about media houses over the past few years. You traded the Board of Directors in HINA so that you could install leading people, so you changed the Law on HRT so you could install the director, so you pissed on the Council of Electronic Media people who are three classes behind Ms. Malenica, three classes both by knowledge and by current résumé, so if you want to tolerate others, three classes. I don't want to name names now if they're not here, but we can talk about it. Please really try to turn to the future, that's what I always say when I talk about the media, always, always try to end it. Why am I saying this specifically at the Electronic Media Council? Because media images, legislation, media services in the world and in Europe are so rapidly changing and developing that we are really falling behind. And that we need peace, harmony and a common debate about this committee. You're going on demand, Internet providers that are completely out of the sphere and our legislation and knowledge, which we haven't processed at all, and we don't know how we're going to control. That's what's happening. TV acquisitions are happening on the Croatian market, TV acquisitions are happening. It's something I'd like to see in the future that the council takes care of. That's something I think we all need to take care of together. It is also a topic for the Parliamentary Media Committee to hold a quality discussion as it was about the Executive Law. It's something you should... That time will come, it's around the corner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Internet providers are already doing such unifications, takeovers and everything else that you no longer have control over what is happening in this media sphere. Not to mention new platforms and everything. It's something we have to think about, and that's how we look to complete the council. Indeed, we really think at the HDZ Club that insisting on this one finding is good that this has been warned, well, we accept the relevant document. Let's point out, say it may not be good, but at the same time look at the portals of how many distinguished fellow journalists and journalists exactly give support to the lady in question because of this attack, precisely because of this attack. Well, these aren't the people of the auto mechanics profession. Well, the same are people from the press profession all the way if you want the social and political spectrum that we have in Croatia from left to right. So let's not ignore it so easily. And let's not sort of talk about the Council of Electronic Media Consciousness always debates a few names. It's wrong, it's not taking us anywhere. That leads us to political rematchism. Because the political clan actually goes left, right, forward, back. It's just a matter of time. The government will change in democracy, and it always comes to the fact that in the end only names are cracked, and these topics that are waiting for us remain forgotten. It's wrong. When we come to that, it'll be too late. That is why the HDZ Club will support this decision and will ask the Electronic Media Council to cooperate regularly with the Assembly Committee on Media, Reporting and to discuss exactly what I said. We expect this support of yours, and we expect your support with due respect for the law that we have written ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46836	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, my colleague Mesic, you have this one style that's marked by one of the extorted pathos I would say that, but without, so I don't mean it offensively, I would say it like that. But when you talk about how HDZ has always condemned hate speech, but that's not really the case. I mean, where were you when Mirjana Rakic was the person who was convicted of paying cocaine for the services of a prostitute who regularly had that hate speech. So, his name is synonym for hate speech in Croatia, she's been handing out a spoon, followed by people, a huge group of people that the police have said were too many to be arrested by everyone who yelled "for a home ready" to come to a person who was headed by this institution that I say you're talking about explicitly and about her future. Where were you then? Where was HDZ then? The thing is, all right, I think I agree with you completely that the future is what we have to look at, but damn it, we can't get rid of these names that we're nagging at, which you're talking about, which brings us to the future all the time. There's one, maybe you've seen has that cute image of that montage that the time zones are actually fascinating. While in London 12 hours and 30 minutes in Croatia is 1941.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46838	The answer of the honourable representative Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46839	That's what I said on the board. I was here and now I'm in the exact same chair, the exact same chair. So, really, after 15 years of my senior career, you can't find me a stain, that I was, that I was, and that I probably didn't judge any hate speech. You can't find me a stain, I listened very carefully, a stain. I've shown extraordinary sensitivity to these things on all the duties I've performed. And I have 30 witnesses from your club to confirm that. How many of you are in the club together? Almost everybody who knows me. That's what I'll tell you if you want in all the other clubs that way in a secret vote, so don't ask me if I was. Where were you? HDZ has condemned any intolerant behavior. Therefore, we condemn it all the time. I'm letting the board discuss this, and you're labeling people for one. Where were you when you put Mr. Goran Radman's principal who forgot to sign up for the property card? Did you protest anything? No, you weren't in Parliament, it's true. I don't think you've been to the Parliament, exactly. Did you protest at the SDP club or the SDP bodies?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46840	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46841	Dear fellow Mesic, I will not get involved in this debate over certain names and the transfer of guilt where the SDP was when he named Radman because of some of his controversial situations, nor do I think that some kind of criminal is determined by journalists that someone in an interview said something, many of those who had an interview with me might get hurt, but I disagree with you, that experience and years bring some thought that it should be in some terms and words softer. I'm always on the side of the truth, I think you should tell the truth. I may never be an ambassador to Italy, but I will always tell the truth. And I've been offered a replica of your statement that new technologies are happening to us, the future is happening to us, we don't know what's going on next to us, nor are we ready for it. That's what's happening to us, but there's a media dark happening on HRT where you played a big part, and that's why I had to react. We have a situation that we will now have a point, where the HRT Supervisory Board is being replaced and the man you brought in and you lobbyed on HRT by Mislav Stipic and you, a colleague of Kosor, is described in this report by the Supervisory Board, so that is, one amount that was paid to him as very controversial, is that perhaps the reason for that supervisory board's replacement? These are things with this future that you are so pathetic about, these are things to talk about and I think that regardless of your position to soften words, you should tell the truth to your colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46842	The answer of the honourable representative Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46843	You've been lobbying your colleague Grumo... on HRT, you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You met with Director Bačić when he was elected, in cafes and you pressured him to appoint on HRT. You lobbyed for appointments on HRT. You were just talking and making suggestions which of them should have what functions to perform, you, you. So, you're a colleague of yours lobbying on that, you. And I'll remind you of our conversation in four eyes. You tell me when you tell me I've been lobbying. We'll have a debate about HRT. I'll tell you what it's about. I'm not letting anyone insinuate, I'm covering anyone. That's why the conclusion and committees are going to be launched if an investigative committee needs to. To establish all the allegations, all the allegations. Have him run by a colleague from the Bridge, whoever you decide. A colleague of Vuntic, who is a member of the board. We won't let anyone insinuate in any way that anyone from HDZ, and I certainly won't allow it to be an esteemed colleague of Grmoy, imputed to me, to cover or protect anyone who's done something wrong. That's not gonna work. That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46844	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Honorable representative of the Grmoi. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46845	238. Article 5 insults MPs, MP Mesic. So it's a clean lie that I've lobbyed anything, and neither do I have any influence on choosing anyone on HRT. And my colleague Stipic is your best man, and you have now replaced the HRT Supervisory Board, after unfavorable information has come out of your godfather and that is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46846	It's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because if we were to assess who's telling the truth and who's not telling the truth, who's telling more truth or less truth, I'm afraid it would be quite complicated. A colleague of Mesic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46847	That the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in 238, Mr. Grmoy brought up one, along with another series of untruths, one fatal untruth. So, I'm the best man for Davorin's Mlakar. That I have 300 witnesses. And with the gentleman in question, I have no family, no godfather, no tribal, no party ties. And it's so easy to prove, you're mistaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46848	I'm asking you nicely don't and you've abused as well as your colleague Grumo, the institution of violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so, please, let's not go into the middle of the 11th now with the abuse of the breach of the Rules of Procedure to say something to each other. There are plenty of opportunities for others. I conclude the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46849	3. (a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Member and President of the Council for Electronic Media (B)Reference for a Decision on the discharge of the Member of the Council for Electronic Media (C) Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and part of the Council for Electronic Media. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. (a) In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of Mirjana Rakic, member and president of the Council for Electronic Media. Please, let's vote. I note that the majority of the 118 votes for and 16 abstentions have been decided on the resolution of Mirjana Rakic, member and president of the Council for Electronic Media in the text as proposed by the Proposer. (b) In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Vesna Roller as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. Please, let's vote. I find that, by a majority of votes, 117 votes for, 17 abstentions, a decision on the discharge of Vesna Roller was taken on the role of a member of the Electronic Media Council in the text as proposed by the Proposer. c) In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Damir Hajduk to the President of the Council for Electronic Media and the Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the Council for Electronic Media, namely Anita Malenica, Davor Marić and Vanja Gavran. This is my colleague, Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46850	Mr. President, if business is possible, we suggest that each member be voted individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46851	It's possible and I agree with that. So first, we vote on the appointment of Damir Hajduk, President of the Electronic Media Council. Please, let's vote. I find that 113 votes for, 21 abstentions, a decision on the appointment of Damir Hajduk to the president of the Electronic Media Council. We now move to individual then vote on members or members of the Council for Electronic Media. And that's what we vote for Anita Malenica first. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour, 19 abstentions and 30 against, Anita Malenica has been appointed a member of the Council for Electronic Media. The second vote is Davor Maric. Please, let's vote. I find that with 106 votes for, 24 abstentions and 2 against Davor Maric was appointed a member of the Council for Electronic Media. And the last Vanya Raven. Please, let's vote. I find that with 97 votes for, 21 abstentions, and 5 votes against, Vanja Gavran has been appointed a member of the Council for Electronic Media. Thus, I note that the decision on the appointment of the president and part of the members of the Electronic Media Council has been made in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46852	And now to the joy of the obvious works of the audience, we move on to the following point: - Proposal for a decision on the resolved part of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radio Television appointed by the Croatian Assembly The Proposer of Acts is the Committee on Information and Information of the Media under Article 22. The Croatian Radio Television Act. The material was delivered to the boxes. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Information and Information and Media, the esteemed Jasen Mesic, to explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46853	So, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, here on behalf of the board, I will briefly report on the subject and how the debate has taken place. So, the first thing the committee accepted on my proposal is that all the documentation from the HRT Supervisory Board's report is delivered to USKOK and DORH and that the memo warns them to proceed to an emergency check of how much power they allow and to urgently investigate all possible allegations and irregularities, an urgent memo. It is then proposed that when this is done, if the Assembly Committee is not satisfied with what the relevant services decide to launch the establishment of our investigation committee which can also discuss these matters and behind this proposal we are standing. What was the problem and the reason for the resolution of the HRT Supervisory Board is not the report of the HRT Supervisory Board whether it is impossible to bypass it, it is in the procedure and it will have to be discussed today, tomorrow or the day after. What led to the resolution of the Supervisory Board is the decision of the Trade Court since July 2016, which warned the Supervisory Board that it had sinned in the law. So the August 2016 Trade Court's solution, which again explained that the law was being violated by the Supervisory Board. So on August 29th, the High Court of Commerce warned the supervisory board for the third time that it was breaking the law. So, in October 2016, then, Minister Hasanbegovic already submitted a proposal with the opinion that the Supervisory Board broke the law in two articles, and then in February 2017, the Supervisory Board broke the law when it sent... to cancel the tender, which is in complete contrast with Article 19a(3). HRT law. And for the fourth time, the Supervisory Board ecldently broke the law, after three times being warned about the findings of the council, which is that he called on candidates who were not elected as chief director and that, in accordance with the Law on Institutions, he complained to the Administrative Court, which, of course, the Administrative Court said that it was nonsense for me to cut short, which is of course whether the Supervisory Board must adhere to the Law on HRT which is bad. We didn't write it, it was written by colleagues from the SDP. And finally, when it's all done, when someone does it four times past the law, and I'll remind you one more thing this supervisory board was elected in July 2015, you know in what situation, to protect Radman because before that, the HRT supervisory board was disbanded because he asked for Mr. Radman's resignation, disbanded. And a new board of directors has been called. Do you think anyone has thought to discuss the report, and this will be debated? When the Supervisory Board found out that this was going to be discussed by the courts, not me, not anyone else on the board, the courts, when they found out about it, called a phone session and released the report and released the PR fog to protect crime. I'm not gonna let that happen with me and the board members, and I'm gonna deny it with all my weapons, and I'm gonna stand firm in that attitude. When it happened, I was motivated by this debate, I am prepared to stand before everyone and fight with all legal means, my argument in front of all the Croatian authorities from the USKOK, the DORH, as I have told ten journalists. Come out, let anyone who dares tell me that I'm protecting crime, give up parliamentary immunity and go with me to court. I'm ready. Who dares? I'm ready. In... For 15 years I've done, whenever you want colleagues with all arguments, whoever wants to give up immunity, there's a court of law. So let's not play. The HDZ Club will, of course, put this on as soon as it comes to debate on the council. I'm not going to allow a populist pump to have someone ask us to close the eyes of a court in four convictions, and I'm going to give them to you, a fellow from the Bridge wasn't on the board, I don't know if I apologized, I'll give them to you, in every explanation the Supervisory Board is not acting according to the lex specialis. They were already scheduled to be resolved in the 10th month of 2016. We had a government formation, we had the principal's election, and about lobbying, I can say the same for some places, and that's what I'm at your disposal for, and I'm not lying to you. This is about the profession and the law, and I very, very rarely make mistakes, very rarely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46854	I thank my colleague Mesic. We have a few replicas. First for the replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46855	Dear colleague Mesic. I believe that all MPs received an e-mail from Anja Sovagović Despot in which what you are presenting is being challenged, I will not enter now into what is legal, which is neither an expert, which is true of that, but the fact you say is that it is a PR fog because it was known about the intentions you have as chairman of the board, the fact is that some information came out a few days ago regarding the operation of HRT itself. So that's what we have, so in that report that appeared in the media that you say is PR fog, I'm curious whether it's true or not. So the secret part of that supervisory board report contains the amounts outside the court settlements that HRT employees who sued that house have concluded with it. It shows that Mislav Stipic, who is working on HRT today, has sued HRT in high office claiming to have been the victim of political discrimination. He claimed that Radman's administration had removed him from the programme's production manager's post and deployed him to a less-paid job as an independent expert because of his political trust. I've been sneezing in this replica before, he's Darinka Kosor's best man, and he's a good friend of yours. And you said that your best man means Constitutional Judge Davorin Mlakar, you're there to deploy your best man and your colleague Kosor means Stipić on HRT. So my mistake, so it's not you, it's my colleague Kosor. Although, then, I can only finish my colleague Shucker, if it's not a problem? Although not the main debate was completed in the process, Sinisa Kovacic, in the first days of the directorial mandate in March 2015, made a deal with him on which HRT paid 85 thousand kuna in compensation for political discrimination. So 85,000 kunas a colleague, Stipic, put in his pocket, even though it doesn't mean what it says here, is not even finished with the main debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46856	I would like to thank my colleague, Grmoji, for the replica and reply of my colleague Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46857	It's Mr. Honorable Grmoja, Mr. Grmoja, it's one of the 40 deals that was made at the time, all at the BOOK and the DORH. Let them wait for everything, from Stipic to Hlorke Novak-Srzic to the new ones that are now being prepared and guessed. Point. Point. The board and I are behind it. That's our conclusion. The report, what you're saying, we're not arguing, we're going to discuss it in accordance with procedures. It must now go to the government and come to the parliamentary board, no one can hide it. No one. He needs to be discussed, he has to be voted on, according to the law. ... Because the reason I'm changing the board of directors is because I'm telling you, not the report. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why the report will be discussed on every quote from the report, every honor, hat down, so I can say a word and shed a tear. But you can't watch this from one side and ignore four convictions and already two shift requests. You can't. I can't. I can't. Absolutely what you're saying is that every settlement contract, every settlement contract, every contract for the production of a respected colleague, every contract for the acquisition of fellow technical equipment, every contract for the equipment of the HRT premises. Well, to come up with what you and I have long dreamed of, we can cut the subscription for our citizens who find it difficult. Absolutely, support us in this, join us in an investigative committee if necessary, but don't tell us that we're hiding something, God forbid. If I was allowed, I'd publish it all in every newspaper but I got an e-mail saying it's a business secret, so I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46858	I thank my colleague Mesic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46859	Thank you very much. Dear Mesic, congratulations on theatre, congratulations on persuasion, we'd be a good actor, too bad you didn't miss the profession, that you weren't on the theater boards, or maybe you have experience. Is it true that anyone in Croatia at this time in this House suspects that you didn't skim everything? So at the last minute, you named those principals, you were the one who was the one who was the one who was running to the Prime Minister, you raced to Stipic, you raced to Bačić whom Nikola Grmoja didn't know at all, never sat down with him or contacted him. You mean you publicly deceive the public that, that Nikola Grmoya has influenced the director whom you've set up that he doesn't know. The only thing that was required, it was a public MOST requested with you mentioned it, the only thing that was the condition and could show Nikola the message he sent to be as a condition, it was a reduction in the subscription. And so theatreically, in front of the cameras, in front of people to tell the truth, so he doesn't know, after the appointment, at that moment, he didn't know it at all, and you know it, you're misinformed by the public but you're a human being, you're a liar, you're a liar, but you're simply a child's smile, your persuasion, and the theatre you want to show and leave an impression of persuasion simply can't go through it. I'm not saying you're not telling the truth about Radman that he didn't do his job, that he was being protected politically, but the same thing you do in a similar way. Or let's say Radman didn't plant a hotel, put it on an estate card, ask God how many rooms. Therefore, I believe that you have deliberately offended Mr. Grmoy in order to put yourself first in this debate, but the fact is that the public service does not meet the purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46860	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Mr. Mesic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46861	Dear Mr. Bully, dear colleague, I'm telling you the truth about this. I've been in this subject too long and you're very politically naive if you think Jasen Mesic is that HRT humanist, you're very naive. After all, you know that life carries me in a different direction. What do I need this for? I could have put this in a drawer, maybe I'd be gone tomorrow. What do I need, if you want to do it in person, when we bring our noses down to the level? And Mr. Grmoya was the first to leave with a personal level, that I was the one to frame someone. Then I reminded Mr. Grmoy of our mutual conversations when it came to the election of directors because then we were in the coalition and it was agreed, and it was agreed. We also negotiated a coalition agreement where we talked a lot from HRT, the subscription, where we were asked to abolish the secret annexes, and we agreed on that. So I wasn't the first to go, I was defending myself, and I'm going to defend myself, and I'm going to defend myself very hard until I get out of here. And I called very Decedede, from the pay phone, in front of the cameras, in front of the people. This has some doubts about me. People take off our immunity, the court's across the street, one of the Constitutional Courts, so it's not someone of their own interest, it's a nice court that's in charge, and I'm ready, and don't give me the theater. This is not a folk-freeness theater. I can recite well. But I'm ready, all this stuff I'm saying, it's nice to come to justice, so let's see who's telling the truth and who's in the theater. I'm ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46862	I thank my esteemed colleague Mesic for his reply. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46863	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this agenda point is extremely problematic for us. And first of all, we know some kind of chronology of this. So, about a week and a few days ago, when the session was scheduled, it seems to me that last Friday was about a meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. We have received information that there is an initiative to resolve four members of the HRT Supervisory Board. What was particularly worrying at that moment, is the fact that this point was not at all... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46864	Dear colleague Shuker, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would really like to ask you not to step in on your colleague Glavasevic as he discusses. And please stay away from such behavior in the future. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46865	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, a week ago, there was an initiative to do this. I'd add quite an intransparent initiative. So at that point in the materials that were delivered to us by these agenda points, there was no idea at all, so the idea was that this point should be included on the committee itself. So, as a complement to the agenda or, perhaps by various means, I don't know. But at that moment there was a problem, and when we warned about it, informal, some channels, I'm actually glad that it was removed, that this committee was delayed. Today, this point has appeared in the Committee's agenda and I am glad to see it in this sense, however, the first question that the SDP's Club of Representatives has to ask here, which is why this is done 2 days before going to summer break? So, within such a short time, ad hoc, the control board of the Christ Clubs is not disbanded, not the HRT Supervisory Board. Two days before going to the summer break, without practically any notice, without any procedure, which would be necessary here, in order for this debate to be properly and informed, not only for us who are on the board, but for and for all of you sitting here and who tomorrow will raise your hands to vote on this. So, we believe that the first big problem, which this decision is actually made, by force, is made at the last minute, and it's justified, so when he transferred it, he argued it as he himself stated, by saying that the Supervisory Board, violated Article 22. The law on HRT, in a way that wronged himself, that he violated the HRT Act. As arguments for this, he offered, so at the committee itself, he said that there are three solutions to the Trade Court and 1 solution to the Administrative Court, which shows that the Supervisory Board has been warned that it violates the law. On the board, we warned my colleague Mesic that the materials we received on the board had not been accompanied at all by the 3 solutions of the Trade Court that he was talking about. So, we on the board, we didn't see those solutions, and we looked at the committee, that these solutions from the debate and decision-making were excluded, which Mr Mesic at that time accepted, but later on, on the committee itself, and here in the debate, he constantly referred to them, although if we said we didn't see those materials, I had them until today, so until this moment, when we were discussing this, I didn't see those solutions, I didn't have them. We had no insight into them. We couldn't decide to take that into account because we didn't have the materials delivered. That's not how you do it. The only material we received was that solution of the Administrative Court, in which therefore, not exactly counterpart Mesic said earlier, saying that the supervisory board had been warned that it was breaking the law. That solution states that the Administrative Court is declared not to be competent for the complaint. Here is the complaint by Josip Jurcevic to the Administrative Court, because he was not elected head of the HRT. counterpart Mesic, talks about how some letter went to candidates and candidates, but we still have no record of it, namely the Supervisory Board, allegedly calling on the candidates and candidates to appeal according to their right, to have the legal remedy to the Administrative Court, according to the Law on Institutions. I'm telling me there's no record of that. What we have and what we have discussed is a solution to the Administrative Court, which says not that the Supervisory Board, therefore, is not mentioned in that solution at all in that solution only states that the Administrative Court is not in charge of deciding on it. Therefore, since the arguments that the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board has violated the HRT Act, three solutions spoken by counterpart Mesic's board, therefore members and members of the board have not seen because they were not delivered, and one solution simply does not mention the Supervisory Board anywhere. Nowhere! So there aren't any of these arguments we've heard, so there's not one of them. None of them stand. In this procedure, therefore, which I have said goes by force, goes at the last minute, goes in shadow at the end of this report, which my colleague Mesic mentioned at the beginning. We find it really very, very difficult to take away the impression that there is no direct link between what the report says and the reason for it to be done now. I would like to mention here that, given the letters we have seen in public today from Anja Šovagović Depot and from the branch of the Croatian Journalist Society on HTV which is the same, therefore both of these letters publicly invite representatives and representatives in the Croatian Parliament not to take off tomorrow, so that they do not resolve members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television, that they do not leave HRT without any supervision until the end of the competition for new members and members. In both letters, Public counterpart Mesic was mentioned by name and last name. And I understand why he's upset today, but it's not the subject of what we're talking about today. I can sympathize with my colleague Mesic because I know what it's like to be implicated and blamed for what you are and what you're not. It's not pleasant to never be under an increase in the public. But we are not discussing my colleague Mesic here today, but we are discussing how it was done and whether tomorrow we will resolve members and members of the HRT Supervisory Board or not. I'm also worried about the SDP Representatives' Club. The fact that we haven't had a chance to listen to the people we have to decide about tomorrow. So, why we couldn't have another session of this committee where Anja Šovagović Despot, the chairman of the Supervisory Board and these four people we want to resolve, which is what HDZ wants to resolve and confront. For what? So we have here literally so that we believe on the word of the promoter that, indeed, they have broken the law into three materials that have not been delivered to us, in one where there is no mention of the Supervisory Board anywhere. There is no real procedure here for colleagues and colleagues, and what we are exposed to is leaving a Croatian broadcaster with a budget larger than the Ministry of Culture, there are mechanisms to make these funds available to Croatian taxpayers' money incomparably more non-transparent than it is in some other institutions without supervision. My colleague Mesic is constantly in his discussions, so he talks about how we should go into the future and look into the future, but he keeps coming back to the past, constantly. So he mentioned a colleague of the former director of the Croatian Radio Television Radman. He's absolutely right when he mentions things that weren't right. He's absolutely right. There's no reason not to say that. However, I thought that we here intended to do better than was done before, not the same or worse. So if you're doing something for which, mentioning as you know you are, SDP was doing something bad, like why is now the problem that we're doing something that isn't great? Because you have to strive and I thought it was some idea. Therefore, to be better than your predecessors, not the same or little one, not quite as bad. So it doesn't hold water. So, the reason you say that before the SDP didn't work well is no excuse or any excuse that you're doing the same or worse. Says Mr. Mesic, do you know how long it's been four months since the Board of Supervisors has been resolved to come new? Four months. Like this is just going to be two. I mean, do you know what's wrong with someone who's dishonest, someone who's a thief who's two months out of control and has millions and hundreds of millions? It is an opportunity that is not missed for such dishonest people. The position of the HDZ Representatives Club, the SDP, is sorry, it's too late, you know. It's the SDP's club's stance that this decision could have waited until autumn, there's no reason. And I know that you and many of you agree that we didn't have to break this over our knees. We don't have to. If you've been waiting with, here's when your colleague mentioned that these three solutions to the Trade Court have never been seen coming since 2016. So why didn't we solve this Supervisory Board in 2016? So, on three occasions in 2016, these three solutions as they arrived not a single time and my colleague Mesic says he was sitting right there sitting right there, and now for what reason have we not raised the issue of resolving this Supervisory Board? So, if it could wait since 2016 for autumn, not two days before going to summer break, not calling the board at the last minute, not frantically looking for solutions from various courts in which the Supervisory Board is most often not even mentioned or a solution that you haven't been able to deliver to your colleagues and colleagues from the board in time to make informed decisions about what you're talking about. Otherwise, I have to say that this idea of fellow Mesic being delivered to the Board of Supervisors at USKOK is warmly supported, warmly. So despite the differences we have on this issue and different aspects, it's certainly a good thing. You just know what? A fellow Mesic is a dispute. And as for the fact that over the summer, if we get rid of the board tomorrow, HRT won't have a supervisory board, I don't think that's good. And the SDP counseling club, because of everything we've said, can't support the resolved members and members of the Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46866	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bojana Glavasevic, for this debate. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46867	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm not going to replicate to you my colleague Mesic. So since a colleague before me has expressed his position, that practically the HRT Supervisory Board has not been heard at all, that these people could not say their version. I'll just read the email that I got at the club by Anja Sovagović Despot, and then let the public draw some conclusions. I'm not a legal expert that I can claim whether you're right or not about these judgments, but surely the way this is happening and the fact that we now have six points in one day. If we had points that were very important to most Croatian citizens such as the Executive Law and various other points from constitutional judges to the Supreme Court. If this were happening before the summer break, be certain. So I'll just read this email I got. Of course, it is the right of the majority of parliament to resolve the HRT Supervisory Board in accordance with all the political reasons that the majority represent. However, it is not usual for the Parliamentary Media Committee to not have called on the Croatian Supervisory Board for reasons of resolution. It is even more absurd that the Supervisory Board is not invited to defend the 2016 Croatian Supervisory Board's 2016 report, which raised the storm in public, and on the same day after the meeting of the Croatian Supervisory Board, which unanimously voted on the official website of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Allow, therefore, a few further explanations of the procedures of the HRT Supervisory Board during work in 2016, which are the reason why our resolution is proposed. The law of the HRT prescribes that HRT has a head director, and that the Director-General is a responsible person, representing and representing HRT in legal traffic with third parties. In a situation where, due to the expiry of the term of office of Sinisha Kovačić, and because of the disbanding of the Assembly, the HRT threatened to be left without the Director-General and responsible person, the Supervisory Board was asked by the Commercial Court to appoint a temporary administrator. The HRT Supervisory Board has never filed a complaint with the Trade Court, but has asked the competent court, in accordance with its powers and duties, to appoint a temporary administrator in the situation of the HRT crisis. Let me conclude, that we didn't do it, I guess that's exactly what our solution would be. I remind you, esteemed MPs, that HRT was almost 2 months old last year without a responsible person at the head of the house we reported in our 2016 report. As far as the first-degree solution of the Administrative Court is concerned, one of the candidates registered in a public tender, Mr. Josip Jurčević, the Croatian Supervisory Board has nothing to do with his suit, nor with a solution declared by the Administrative Court in Zagreb in charge of resolving the case. Namely, after being appointed by the Parliamentary Media Committee, Ivica Zadar, as a valid candidate, registered in a public tender for the appointment of the Chief Director of the HRT, despite the fact that the Supervisory Board, found that this candidate had not proved a 10-year working experience by the employer or former employer, the Supervisory Board reacted, by letter to the President of the Croatian Parliament, and had postponed the cancellation of the public tender for breach of the provisions of the public tender by the Parliamentary Media Committee. The President of the Parliament sent a proposal from the Supervisory Board on the cancellation of the public tender to the Parliament's press committee, to a competent procedure, which was not even discussed. When taking into account the tender documentation in the premises of the Croatian Parliament, Josip Jurčević, I suppose, with the agreement of the chairman of that committee, submitted complete tender documentation, including our letter to the President of the Parliament, which Mr Jurcevic used in his lawsuit against the decision to appoint Kazimir Bačić as head director of the HRT as evidence of infringement of the competition rules. As far as we know, the Administrative Court has declared itself incompetent in handling the case of Mr. Josip Jurcevic, but the decision is now being used by the court as an argument against the Croatian Supervisory Board, although we have nothing to do with it. All the documents I'm talking about on this letter, the HRT Supervisory Board has been stored in its archives, and I'm keeping at the very least an odd, amateur act of the chairman of the Media Committee, who is talking and not supporting them with facts and evidence. So this is what I got. Is it standing or not standing, I can't claim it, but here's to hearing that side, since these people didn't have a chance, to tell their side of the story. And what I would warn my colleague Mesic, I was confused about his godfather, Stipic is not his best man, but Mr. Kosor's best man, but he also made one mistake, because he accused this supervisory board of being installed to protect Radman. And now I've got a message, I don't know, if it's true, here you can, I've seen that you've replicated me, so you can correct me, is it true, that right now, this supervisory board, has denied the recall, the shift of Radman, which the Parliament accepts. So now we're in one contradiction, so I'd like you to correct me if this message that I got is incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46868	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Grumoja for this debate. We have a replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46869	Thank you very much. My colleague Grumo, what you have read from Anja Sovagovic, as far as I understand it, means there are many ambiguities here, and surely it should be made clear that the other side of the truth is heard or that someone here who is responsible Mr Mesic has said that he knows this matter and for a long time he has been in this about the media and he is dealing with it and the chairman of the board so he can know what's going on with this, what about these illegalities that harm HRT and many other things and the fact is important to hear this side and to clarify it. Well, it was about Darinka Kosor Stipić's best man who manages everything, or it was about Bačić who obviously doesn't run anything. I don't know what to say, but I'd like to hear the other side. And I am sorry that my colleague Mesic did not replicate that this matter was clarified, but during the debate, I see that while my colleague Mesic is also in the debate that he will clear out the damage done on HTV as he said earlier and during Radman, it is huge damage, let's see what about work contracts, contract annexes, millions, as much as 40 million kunas of contracts that are secret annex contracts. They have secret contract annexes, they have employees' salaries and they have annexes and they have annexes that at the call of politicians do the show and then when they see within a minute that Nikola Grumoja will be a guest or Miro Bulj that they will be a guest on HTV from these same ones receive accurate questions, targeted questions and journalists are obliged to fulfill regardless of the journalistic profession and influence on journalists. That's what this is about. It's a public service, controlled by contract annexes, millions of kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46870	I thank my colleague Bull. My colleague Grmo's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46871	Dear fellow Bull, we are absolutely to investigate everything. What I do not want is to manipulate the facts so that now, in front of his electoral body that is known, he does not like Mr. Radman. He says that this supervisory board was protecting Mr. Radman, and I saw that my colleague Mesic repulsed me if it wasn't true what I read that this supervisory board had just launched a shift and recall of Radman. So it wouldn't be right if what he put out in his replica, he corrected me, I accepted this godmother thing, it wouldn't be right if what he said had simply been denied by this message and I wanted my colleague Mesic to know about it. And as for these shows, well, that's clear, I, on several occasions, flew into the classic jackals, even once left a particular show where I was with my colleague Bošnjakovic. More HDZ stances are advocated by a journalist than by a fellow Bosniak who is a decent, moderate man. And I said I had to quit the show because I don't want to be involved in something that's already been prepared. But it's not that reporter's fault, and you know it, and we had a situation the other day when there was one asked question for you. But we have our own informants, too, so we get some information when we're getting ready to wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46872	I thank my colleague Grumoja for his reply. Replica, dear fellow Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46873	I always tell the truth about this subject. This Supervisory Board has launched a request by the Council for Electronic Media, which has repeatedly warned that they must act on the law and initiate the procedure. Technically, then, the supervisory board that we're talking about really at one point triggered Mr. Radman's resolution, that's a fact, on the request of the Council for Electronic Media. It was a colleague of the so-called. double accounting, you know well what this is about because of the subscription, etc., etc. However, I was actually replicating it because of a letter to Mr. President of the Parliament, then it was a respected colleague of Petrov's. This is illegal, it is against Article 19a(3). The law on HRT and I will give it to you now. The Supervisory Board has no right to do so under the law, no. The supervisory board there is explicit in that article in that article, so I quote you an article to listen to the whole public, writes what he does. And normally President of the Parliament a written man when he saw it immediately was a hot potato... and the parliamentary board has nothing to discuss except to warn the Supervisory Board for the 75th time to choose to uphold the law. Is it so easy to read, it's you and me that we historians figure out in 30 seconds, that's one thing. We have reached a conclusion on the Assembly Committee, a colleague of Grmoja, all members of the board we have voted both SDP members and colleagues Runtic from the Most we voted that it is a parliamentary committee that has the right to contact any parliamentary committee who will. Well, it can't be determined by the supervisory board, so it's past the law. What a memo to the President of the Parliament, what's the matter with you? The supervisory board that... the body writes to cancel the competition. No, please. Where'd they get that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46874	I thank my colleague Mesic. My colleague Grmo's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46875	My colleague Mesic, it seems to me like some kind of debate over some procedure was supposed to be referred to the President of the Parliament, what I'm worried about is what was in that letter is that correct? It's not true. [[Intruder Mesic: No.]] You're behind this? Okay. [[Intruder Mesic: Yes.]] And other information that's interesting is that the current culture minister at Radman was headed by the HRT Programme Council and that's interesting information. Well, it is not necessary to share that information with the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46876	I thank my colleague Grumoja for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Comrade Mesic, please, when you get the word then you can speak. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46877	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on HRT is always extremely important for the Parliament and for the parliamentary representatives. And that's how it's gonna be until there's public television. But I'm afraid, as I said in one of the last speeches that if we continue to treat HRT like this, that public television will soon disappear. So I'm going to say two words that made me decide to stop at this late hour for this pay phone. First, the ruling coalition has the right to change what is good for public television when on Wednesday its institutions include one of the most important such as the Supervisory Board. With the Supervisory Board not only in this composition but also in the previous one, there was difficulty. There was no consistency between the management and the supervisory board. And it's not the specifics of this supervisory board, it's the one before it. And we have to learn a lesson in some way when it comes to it. We can learn the lesson in a double way, first in selecting members of the Supervisory Board and second in harmonising relations between administrative and supervisory components on HRT. Sometimes there's a problem with the principal, sometimes there's a problem with the supervisory board, sometimes there's a problem with a third body. Our concern here of the parent board and the tide is to help them do it as well as the government. And when it's Wednesday's decision to change this composition to the board of directors, then of course it's the right of the majority to do so. And it's going to happen just like it did on the board. However, there are two obligations behind this, at least I feel that way as a member of the ruling majority. The first question is who we're going to do and how we're going to hold the election for that new band. And whether or not we're going to bring in people who are really going to be able to do a proper job, an important job of the Supervisory Board. And secondly, we already have at least 10 if not for more than 10 years we know that business as a key component on HRT is not the best set, I mean a mild formulation, not the best set. And that the decision to change the composition of the Supervisory Board at the moment when we have some elements of the business report comes at a time that makes us an obligation not only to watch that we choose a new composition but also to take measures that will bring business into a state that will end the continuity of bad governance and management by representing public money from any subscription, any of the funds that come from the Government, any of the funds that come from other sources, or profits. It is clear to all of us that there is a large amount of money on the one hand, on the other hand there is no large number of employees. But also that it's both a crisis point. But it's clear to all of us also that there are people on HRT who for years de facto represent the key management mechanisms of that house. And they're not the board of directors, they're not the director. And I'm not even sure that's what the current director is, like no other. And that there are some gray eminences that actually rule that house. And they don't master in a good way, not financially or otherwise. I speak as a member of the ruling coalition. And they're not since yesterday, but if they stay, then this shift and decision to change the board will be under a very, very serious questionnaire. And as it should be avoided that the institution attacks the institution in a way that is not regulated by law at the same time should absolutely do everything necessary to ensure that gray eminences protected by these or those mechanisms, weak leadership on one side, political prosthetics, lobbys of different kinds seriously endanger the survival, professionality, financial stability of the public service of the HRT. I won't talk about names, we talked about them where it's needed and where coalition partners talk, and we'll talk more. I've had so much to say tonight because when we take this job and we take criticism and we need to receive it both when we deserve it and when we don't deserve it, because it's part of the political business. But, God, when it comes to public enterprises in general, especially the public service of HRT, then that condition should be changed in the vital segment. And the vital segment, I am a long member of the Committee on Human Rights, and I remember a good joint session of the Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Media and Information, where it is concluded that this is a crisis point in business. Look at the cameramen coming in and the cameras coming into this House. From a public service that comes from private services. So you'll see generational differences. Look at the speed at which N1, to mention now one medium, not because I'm stretching it, which HRT does. See who gets before interviewing the leading people in power, either the head of state in this case or the Prime Minister, whether it gets a private or public service. Why? Because there's no business philosophy that would be dynamic, and it's not and it can't be. Because it's bad in its core. I'm not gonna use another word, I'm gonna use a bad word. If private people get rich, based on private logic and profit, but then public service is our duty to keep it safe. As we need to protect every other state institution. Then we have the right to change the Board of Supervisors. And if we don't do this second step. Then we'll be unworthy to change this monitoring committee. And that's why I'm saying that we from the ruling coalition are having this conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46878	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milorad Pupovac. We have one replica. Dear fellow Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46879	Dear colleague, the great majority of what you said, I would sign. We'll meet again, you and I. But he would especially sign one piece, which is respect for institutions. It's no accident that you came in a later hour to turn it around. Because you know it's from institutions moving and fixing the situation and the problems you've pointed to. From the institutions. And he'll forgive you. My duty is one of the first when I'm on the Committee in the media, to protect the Board's institution and what I've been tasked with by law. No matter how well you know I've always been extremely critical, according to the current HRT Act. And I hope we see the new law soon. I really hope so. And I agree that we can go right through the institutions, not by misquoting the Law on Institutions, the Commercial Court, again and again and again and again and again, giving someone the right to initiate administrative action, calling for administrative action against the Parliamentary Media Committee. Then we don't have a chance to find ourselves in what you said. Chances. Because whatever you say, someone will be able to press charges. And you won't be able to follow the situation ever. And I agree absolutely with you, and I'm going to end up with that as a first step. Step one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46880	I thank my colleague Mesic. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46881	So, I'll say it again, thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll repeat my colleague, Mesic, what I said. In a regulated state, institutions do not go to an institution. But everyone does their job and in accordance with the law and regulations co-ordinate and act on their activities. That's what happened in the case of the board of directors, this one, as it was the last one. The extent to which it is necessary. But neither can anyone be protected in an institution if they behave and act uninstitutionally. And business, as well as programme, are two of the key things that are the intelligence of this House. So, including the board. And if we know that it's not getting better, but unfortunately it's getting worse in different aspects, it's our job as you say, in the next step, to do what we have to do. To the extent that it's realistic to do that. And all politics is like you said an unpopular name in human policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46882	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Pupovac. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46883	Thank you very much. Given the late hour, I'll try not to repeat myself. Therefore, there are clear reasons why the Board of Supervisors is being changed and called off. Of course, it has nothing to do with the 2016 report. The report will be discussed. The first sentence I said today on the board is that we're going to send it to the relevant institutions to investigate everything and what the colleagues of the SDP said, what the colleagues of the Mosta said, and what we are saying in HDZ already has a lot, a lot of years. I will ignore the judgments of the Trade Court. I'll only be back for the moment since I've been in this meeting with the Parliament Media Committee. There is a very clear memo that the Supervisory Board came out of its frame when he invited people to comply with Article 42. The law on institutions has the right to press charges. That's inadmissible. And there was a solution to the Administrative Court. And many colleagues here know that it is a dissatisfaction with the work of the Supervisory Board as well as some other parts of Croatian broadcasting that the distinguished colleague spoke of before me was present. And we know that, too, at HDZ, and they know it well in the SDP, and they know it well at the Most. The report will therefore be discussed by the Supervisory Board, and will be discussed if the Committee also has to attend a special thematic session. There won't be a single piece of paper to hide. We won't have a mistake that happened to the SDP when they didn't resolve the catapults of the Supervisory Board within the time frame of the cookie. What kind of discussion about the report? What suggestions? Not on the radar. To this day, no discussion has been made because a new government opinion is awaiting, to this day. But as long as this Croatian Radio Television Act is in force, we've criticised 500 times. All those who are obliged to hold on to it, starting with the parliamentary committee, will continue to hold on to it. The Law on Institutions 42, which clearly states in Article 42, in Article 38, does not apply to the Croatian Parliament. It's eclectic legal ignorance, eclative ignorance. And when it happens to you again in four judgments one after the other, then it's more than ignorance, then it means you haven't read it or you're doing it out of malignancy initiatives. That's not gonna be allowed by the Assembly Committee. He therefore concluded jointly with his colleagues from MOST, colleagues representing national minorities in the Croatian Parliament and colleagues from the joint conclusion. If simply that letter had been sent to Parliament Speaker Petrov, it had far come out of the legal framework. I repeat Article 19a again. Paragraph 3. di clearly writes the Supervisory Board proposes to the Board of Directors to be elected by the Parliamentary Committee. The Board of Supervisors should choose to deal with their report. And when it comes to debate and then we're going to discuss the Supervisory Board and that detail whether the report is well-assembled, detail whether everything is put inside what should have been put together. Because I will meet you dear colleagues and colleagues, there is a proposal to resolve this Supervisory Board in 10 months 2016, with a warning that the Supervisory Board is not performing its function properly, so we can discuss it as well. Therefore, we won't make a mistake again. We will keep in mind what awaits us in the future, we will stick to what we talked to MOST colleagues a few months ago to improve the situation, to look for and ask the new principal to show what he's done in rationalization, to improve the programme, to keep the ratings of the information program up with private TV, to show what's going on with the secret annexes, to show how the production funds are spent, to show who signed the biggest contracts for recording individual series or movies with HRT, to show who signed them and why and how it was made. To show how the settlements were made or the contracts were made 40. We'll look for it. But we won't let it end, and I'm glad that the debate didn't continue in that direction, that neither HDZ nor any of us here dare call to protect crime because in this college it's not true, it's not true. And we'll know how to protect ourselves by all means. Thank you very much. The HDZ Club will, of course, support the decision of the Assembly Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46884	I thank my esteemed colleague Mesic. We have replicas. Dear colleague of Nikola Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46885	Dear counterpart Mesic, it means how controversial I have come to understand this letter to the President of the Parliament, which the Supervisory Board has come out in your opinion and public interpretation beyond its powers. But I would like to ask you if the HRT Supervisory Board has done its job in terms of reporting and identifying irregularities and whether any future supervisory board will do its job in this regard. And that's what we all care about. It shouldn't have happened that there was some reason for the Board's shift, so that people who won't mean HRT's business all these annexes and all the things that happen are properly monitored. And that's what's in my interest, not just an investigation. And that's where I absolutely support what's been happening so far. We want everything investigated, we're on the same line. And of course around rationalization and here we expect because it was also our joint agreement to go to a reduction in HRT subscription. And that's what we agreed together independently on what happened later between HDZ and the Most. We agreed on this and on these foundations the government was formed and I now expect it to continue in this direction. But what I'm interested in is whether the HRT Supervisory Board will continue to monitor HRT's work in the way he's done this composition so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46886	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. My colleague Mesic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46887	Yes, the report of this Supervisory Board will be discussed, it must be, it cannot be missed, then it will come into the parliamentary procedure as soon as it has the government's opinion. So whoever it is has to be discussed it can't pass either the committee debate or the plenary debate. I say before that, we'll send it to the competent institutions to see that they're investigating everything. Hold our word for it, I repeat. At this point, a new invitation to tender for members of the Supervisory Board has been proposed on the parliamentary committee, 30 days of application must be selected. One is chosen from the ranks of employees, it is customary in the Parliament that the position always suggests one member. So was the case with the current Minister of Culture, Obuljen, who was proposed by HDZ to the programme council, and that's why she was there at the time because, by the grace of our SDP colleague, we were allowed to propose two out of the nine members of the opposition, so that's how it happened. I absolutely support this replica of yours, I almost have nothing to say to you. And this, I think, is right that a billion and 300 million collected from the subscription can be saved annually by 50, 100 million with a little smarter business, a little more consideration, a little more abolished secret annexes, and you're already close to reducing the most vulnerable people in this Republic's subscription to what we agreed on and when we talked about how to develop it in the future, and to maintain your public service function.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46888	I thank my colleague Mesic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46889	You told your colleague that you wanted to clear things up and I support it on HRT, that all things should be cleared up in the most transparent way that everything should be opened. I'm going to remind you one more time, and you mentioned it, so we're talking about the salaries of people who have a contract, but there's often an annex contract. I'm interested in what you know about it and whether you have information as chairman of the board and whether the Board's supervisory board has informed you about whether it's really a secret is protected from knowing secret annex contracts on pay contracts. It's a very important thing to see if someone is controlling these secret annex contracts by a certain structure within a public service, it's important because of these things that happen in the public that politics controls and such is perception and if there are annex contracts, and secret are meant to be something amazing. It is very important to resolve here and the things about what you said about buying foreign production from these foreign productions that are often shown on our public television, and in fact not investing in domestic production and very little. I'm sure you could invest a lot more. But this first part is very important. It's basically what degrades public television and creates perceptions in people that it's exploited, and since it's true everyone says it's true that we have annexes that it's a politically controlled institution and everything that comes out of your HTV means that 90% of things is strictly controlled through those secret annex contracts, so here if you can answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46890	I thank my colleague Bull. The answer to my esteemed colleague Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46891	I agree with you. According to my information I failed to verify at the moment of the new administration's arrival, there were over a hundred secret annexes. Their annual amount on information that is not fully verified is more than 11 million kuna per year. The annexes have started to clear up, and I expect that when the first official report is submitted, the new director of the annex will no longer be. It's my personal... Anexa report that at that moment, if it requires a certain procedure to stop it, I completely agree with you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is inadmissible for public media service, it is death for public media service. It is also death for the public media when these days you can read through portals and in preparation for this debate various unnamed sources, articles about this, articles about where some journalists turn into dactylographs. You just have an article that says I don't know what, some kind of disorder, what, you have unannounced sources of no quotes and a journalist just who knows whose warrant he writes as a dactylographer. If we had the courage to publish a quote, then you and I would easily hang up, but they're nowhere to be found. Let them ask me I'll easily deny it, dear colleague, only I'm waiting and we're waiting for them to come out with a quote, so we can unmanage them so if we need all the data. There's so many colleagues staring.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46892	I thank my colleague Mesic for this answer. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote on this item on the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46893	2. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television appointed by the Croatian Parliament. The draft act shall be proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision to resolve Katarina Baki, Miroslav Grgić, Shenu Selimovic and Anja Šovagović-Despot from the duties of members of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board appointed by the Croatian Parliament. The decision requires a majority of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 votes for, 8 abstentions and 47 against a decision on the resolution of Katarina Baki, Miroslav Grgic, Shenu Selimović and Anja Šovagović-Despot from the members of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board appointed by the Croatian Parliament in the text as proposed by the Committee for Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46894	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local, regional and regional self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 161. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the committee responsible for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You also received reports at the session. Representative of the Proposer, Mr Darko Nekic, the Honorable State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I welcome you all. This proposal proposes, therefore, to supplement Article 8e(1). The law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authorities and local, regional and regional self-government, in such a way as to establish that voters, on their own behalf and last name, when declaring the need to apply for a referendum, are also being registered by the OIB. It was prescribed by that provision that voters who declare themselves on the need to apply for a referendum with their name and name should also enter JMBG. However, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 27 September 2016 repealed the provision in the part prescribed for the entry into force of the JMBG and laid down the suspension of the provisions in that section from 31 March 2017. According to the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia’s view, there is no longer a reasonable reason for the continued use of JMBG in the public’s declaration of the need for a referendum after the end of the transitional period prescribed by the OIB Act and with the full application of the OIB from 1 January 2011. It is also assessed that the contested provision in the section and the JMBG does not satisfy the requirement of a constitutional guarantee for the protection of personal data referred to in Article 37. The Constitution and for the purpose of resolving this legal gap has been approached right here. On Monday, the Committee on Legislatives gave two amendments, the first part of the name of the law itself, so the name of the law is changed in that amendment to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the conduct of the state authority of local, regional and regional self-government, and the second part was a supplement in Article 63, where the words of the single parent, replace the words of the personal identification and that amendment, respectively, and the two amendments were adopted by the Government. The second amendment was an amendment to the honourable representative of Mr Podlinjak who gave the amendment to add words to the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation, and in this already mentioned Article 8e, after the word name, to the OIB or the number of valid identity cards or the number of valid passports. So we can't accept that amendment for two reasons. So it is not acceptable for the signature to indicate the number of identity cards instead of the OIB because the signature check requires an identifier that all Croatian citizens have. In this connection, it is pointed out that under the Law on the ID card there is no obligation to issue ID cards by Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, so they can but also do not have an identity card. On the other hand, according to the OIB Act, the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration shall determine and assign the OIB on the basis of information on which the competent authorities keep official records immediately after the data entered have been downloaded. Given the equality of all Croatian citizens, it is necessary to select a reliable identifier that has been assigned to all and which will allow all Croatian citizens to participate in the referendum, which is just mentioned by the OIB. Finally, I would like to mention that the records of Croatian citizens who are resident in the Republic of Croatia and the records of Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia include, among other things, the OIB, not the number of IDs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46896	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State for this explanation. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46897	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Proposer, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here's another ten minutes, and we're going to say good morning waiting for this important topic on the referendum, and this is how we look at the irrelevant amendment of the Law on Referendum by observing and awaiting the government's opinion because we said that we're going to wait for the government's opinion on a very important topic that we had today, and that's an amendment to the executive law, and that in this day, in ten minutes, we're all going to change things together, at least one step at a time. I have experience and many of you know that, by all criteria, what's important is what's prof. It is very important that many people who do not have the OIB at this time, and it is collected in certain places and it is not easy to collect signatures, and the referendum is the largest form of expression of the people, and no matter what the constitutional experts here say that the referendum must be voted by parliamentary representatives no, it was in the family referendum. I know, I see my colleagues laughing and my colleagues are late hours, but it's important because a referendum is the key expression of the people in fact the greatest expression of the people in making decisions and the more we should use it if it's in other democratic states and use it. Well, for example, in collecting signatures, a number of people don't have OIBs on their papers at the time, but they have IDs and they have a passport. And that's why this amendment of fellow Downworlders is the thing that's in place. That's enough evidence that someone is that person because it's not easy to collect a number of signatures to go into a referendum because I believe that we only have the OIB and in all the documents we don't have the OIB and not even the ID card, on our ID card. Therefore, I think that we should consider and introduce the possibility of checking both through the passport and ID card because it's really hard for people to ask them to come back, especially the elderly when they collect at certain prescribed places of signatures that, that would be very important. And once again, a referendum unfortunately imposed some referendums and changes on the Croatian people during the last year, which was a referendum and a decision to join the EU. In that last year before the elections themselves, it changed that, that 50+1 persons should not go to the referendum. And for the local committee, a referendum where some municipal lighting body will go can be called a referendum, but you need to collect 50+, 50%+1 list. So these referendums are being manipulated and thus 12% of Croatian citizens voted to join the EU. They have so motivated Croatian politicians to join the EU and we see now these results solely because Parliament did not represent the electoral mood in Croatia at that time and no parliamentary representative at that time was at least the euro skeptical or not opposed because we are not against the EU but we now see what we have signed, as we have signed. These people today are the same in the governance structures from the President of the Parliament to the lower, the foreign minister because we see what is happening now with our border at sea with Slovenia as we have favored the Slovenians to join the EU, as we have arrested, located, transferred numerous generals to agree but with only 12% to join the EU and we have not protected our interests in an exclusively economic belt and many other things. And last night I asked EU funds where everyone is calling on how much money is in Croatia, how much money is in Croatia, because 500m euros is paid by Croatia to pay membership fees as much as is paid back. It is no one against the EU, in a way that we are servants but we have lost sovereignty and therefore the referendum was, in this way it was issued to reduce 50% at the last minute that it would be valid if it came under 50% of the people. That gentlemen of Parliament's representatives who were at the Parliament at the time, that was unconstitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46898	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46899	Here's a very short, honored Vice President. It is my duty only to correct my colleague Bulj as regards the allegations of a referendum on EU accession, 43.51% came out and voted 66% for if we look at the total voter entry, it is about 30% and not 12, if you thought of that information, purely for information. And as for the amendments you mentioned by Mr. Podolnjak, I must say that there has been a debate on the Committee of Legislatives and I see that this amendment is also a fruit of the debate, because in the proposals that Mr. Podolnjak had on the board, he went with the number of valid ID cards, only to be sought and not by the OIB and or passports, etc. precisely for the reason I discussed there on the board that this makes it impossible for our citizens who do not have the residence vote in the referendum and I see that it is corrected here. But I'm saying, that's where we took that attitude, so it wasn't accepted yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46900	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46901	It was less than 30%, I deliberately told a smaller number to just kick somebody's line and replicate it to me. Did a 50% plus one voter come out? ... 43.57. That is why several months before the referendum, the law on a referendum on the most crucial issue of joining entry into one, in association with the EU, has been amended. By joining the EU? And for one lighting body, a fellow Shucker now laughs out loud, for one lighting body to place a pillar for the lighting body in the village if the people two are going to be on the left or on the right should come out 50+1. And then you were unanimous with the HNS, HDZ and SDP. That's not fair, that's not fair. It's not fair to manipulate the people with a referendum. It's the greatest form of democracy. That is not what my colleague Grbin said when it was on behalf of the family and you were a signator In the name of the family, you from the CNS, that proposal, you were fierce, as well as colleagues from the HDZ on the definition of marriage when he said you can't change the Constitution, the Parliament has to determine on the matter of the referendum. You were then quite active in collecting signatures on the definition of marriage in Osijek along with colleagues from the HDZ that you're in the coalition, you're on the same track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46902	I thank you for your response to my colleague Bull. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. He's giving up, thank you very much. If you'd like, please, Secretary of State Mr. Darko Nekic, just one sentence, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46903	I'm sorry, I just wanted to add, so it's only a matter of technical amendments to the law, according to the Constitutional Court's decision of 11 months last year, and which we have now implemented. Thank you very much. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46904	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Secretary of State Darko Neka for his explanations. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46905	Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional, regional self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 161. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Robert Podolnjak. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments submitted, and here with us is Darko Nekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. First amendment of the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46906	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46907	That amendment becomes an integral part of the law. The second amendment is also the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46908	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46909	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. It's an amendment from a colleague of Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46910	The amendment is not accepted. For reasons because the implementation of the signature requires an identifier and, in accordance with the Law on the Registration of Voters, an identifier is an OIB or the home number of citizens that we exclude by this law. The proposed amendment is also not in line with the Personal Identification Number Act, which provides that the OIB is a permanent OIB obligor identification code used by OIB users in official records, in daily work and in data exchange, and that the number bonds are mandatory to use to be assigned to them by the OIB on all applications and other submissions which communicate with the users of the number. Third, the proposed amendment also does not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision of 27 September 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46911	A fellow Downhill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46912	I'm staying with the amendment, the Proposer is absolutely wrong about everything he just said. It's very simple. The proposer suggests that citizens must sign the initiative's referendum on their behalf and last name and OIB. All other laws where citizens sign their bids for elections, parliamentary presidential and local elections, citizens enter the number of valid ID cards or the number of valid passports or OIBs as in parliamentary elections. I therefore suggested that citizens can choose which of these identification numbers they will enter on their own behalf and last name in order to make it easier for them to sign the request for a referendum. And in accordance with the law, because that is exactly what we are applying to both local and parliamentary and presidential elections. And I'm staying with the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46913	Thank you. You're asking for a vote, I presume? The vote, yes. I ask that we vote in favour of an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. Therefore, we are going to vote and I am voting on the final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Referendum Law and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional, regional self-government, please vote. I find that most of the votes 118 are for, 7 abstentions 13 against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46914	We move to the next item of the agenda is: - Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2016. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The law on the right to access information. The materials were delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You also received reports at the session. The government has delivered its opinion. Reporter, distinguished Commissioner for Information, Anamari Musa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46915	Here is a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2016. The law on access to information regulates the constitutional right of citizens to the availability of public sector information which has now been several times the subject of secret contracts to property cards. It lists a whole series of obligations for public authorities, in particular to publish information on the internet, precisely certain information, to address citizens' demands including requests for various contracts and similar documents, to carry out public consultations when they adopt regulations and documents affecting the interests of the users, and to ensure, in particular, the public works by publication of agendas, meetings decisions and to enable the public to participate in or attend the work of the college bodies. In addition, we have a new obligation under the EU Reuse of Information Directive, so that information is made public in an open form so that the private sector and civil society and the academic community can be involved in the production of new products and services in the new digital European environment. These obligations shall be subject to the exercise of 5900 public authorities. Of these 5900 public authorities, 81% reported the implementation of the 2016 law, which is 5% more than in 2015 and 10% more than in 2014 which shows that the level of compliance of this obligation has increased. Also, of the total number of bodies, about 85% appointed an information officer as a concerned person who handles citizens' requests for access to information, which is 10% more than the previous year. Compared to certain obligations I will brief you on the fact that a comprehensive report is both a convenient and convenient summary you have and you have already received it earlier. So, compared to the overactive publication of information on our websites, there are clear indicators that transparency is increasing. We estimate that about 77% of the information is published and strangely, perhaps contrary to what we have heard today and what may be public perception, the most information is published about the consumption of public funds. There are public authorities and most agile if nothing else because these obligations are prescribed by the Budget Act and other laws and regulations. For example, here to give you a good example, 70% of state-owned companies publish their annual financial reports while doing so with less than 30% of local companies. We have about 800 companies owned by local units in Croatia, so 30 percent of them publish their financial reports, which is tax. The citizens most often warn of the lack of information that is important to them, means information about services they can obtain from public administration, the contacts of persons working in those bodies, information on competitions and employment, there are particularly interested citizens, and information is often lacking as well as information on agendas and decisions taken by the authorities. In view of the requirements made by citizens to public authorities, public authorities have reported that they have received 17 thousand requests, the most requirements are addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia 212, then to certain ministries such as the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of the Interior, environmental protection, finance and health, which are between 150 and 250 requests and the city of Zagreb with 210 requests. What the public authorities again find strange, unlike the perception that citizens have to resolve in 95% of cases within the deadline, so within the legal deadline. Most often citizens are looking for exactly what is said today, various contracts including contract annexes which are in principle public unless there is a need in certain parts of these contracts for a legal basis to limit access, different decisions, studies, employment information and, in particular, salaries and official travel most frequently to the head of the body. Unfortunately, journalists are making less use of this instrument, and when they do, their demands are precisely the most concerned by the body leaders and their movements and official travel and consumption. What is actually evident is that citizens often complain, so we estimate that about 60% of those negative solutions that the bodies make when they reject citizens 60% of these solutions come to us, so the appeal procedure. Most often complain about local unit decisions, so 30% of all complaints that we receive are over 600 complaints, here are the third year in a row, regarding local self-government, and the authorities of the state administration 20% while the third dominant group are local and state-owned companies, mostly HEP and so on. The main reason remains for putting up with the administration's regrets, thus failing to answer public authorities' questions to citizens' questions and citizens' demands within 15 days. So last year, so 60% of all complaints were filed for the reason that let's say some fall compared to the previous year when it was 66.67%. Obedience to requests most often when the media is looking for information, which, in fact, has a devastating effect on the ability to report because media often need urgent and rapid information. The most common public authorities rejected demands last year due to alleged abuse of citizens' rights, the right to access information. In 2015, we introduced the possibility that the demand for citizens would be rejected for this reason. However, we have not yet meant that in 2016 we have not confirmed any such decision, i.e. we felt that the public authorities' body was unjustly called for that reason. The other two reasons are here that are mentioned here again, so the protection of personal data regardless of a whole series of our decisions published in our decision-seekers and opinions, so all our decisions and decisions of the High Administrative Court are publicly available. And therefore, regardless of what we have repeatedly brought solutions that confirm the court's personal data, the majority of the data concerning the public function holder is not really protected data and still the bodies insist that they are. And second, the third reason is therefore, of course, a business secret that is used relatively non-chalantly. So when and when it isn't, there's no basis for it. What may be the most devastating is that we have found that in almost 4 out of 5 cases, public authorities are illegally deciding on the law, making illegal solutions. So 78% of all the complaints we solved proved illegal. I say most often now because of that abuse and personal rights. The biggest reason why we have established that the reasons is that the public authorities are not sufficiently educated especially in local self-government where there are weak capacities and knowledge, that they do not know the rules, that they do not understand the right of citizens to be, that they do not actually understand the principle that we have in the Croatian Constitution and in the Croatian Law on the right to access to information, as well as in breach of EU fundamental rights, which is that all public information concerning the work and decision-making of the public authorities except those which are protected by law. So, actually, it's like they still have the reverse thinking that everything is secret unless you really have to give it away. Unfortunately, we also see that the law is often used as a means of personal, political reckoning and media hash that we have seen especially in the last period through increases in the number of complaints just before some of the elections. We've solved multiple items, you've got them listed, so they've all been published. Most often we gave access to where he was unjustly denied in the contract, contract annexes, documentation from the tender for employment, CVs, like the résumés of candidates, etc. And also work contracts, copyright fees which are actually data on the consumption of public funds and are public. There are also records of meetings and records of inspections. What is the second area that is very actually just beginning to develop in the right way, which is including the public in consulting on regulation. Here's what I'm going to say is that 38% is respected by this provision, so 38% of the rule-making cases are respected at the state level and the situation is still catastrophic at local level. Given the shortness of time, I'm going to cut back on what I was going to say, given that you've already read it all. So, my general assessment that the situation in terms of transparency, openness increases because all figures indicate it. However, there are still serious problems in local self-government, in implementation, in involving the public in decision-making and thus making it possible to actually make better and better rules. Also in the publication of information and in particular in respect of the obligations under the European Open Data Directive. I therefore believe that it is still necessary to strengthen the capacity of the public authorities and we have highlighted 28 recommendations in our report to actually improve which here a little by little goes, but to make this happen faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46916	I would like to thank the Commissioner for the information, the esteemed Mrs Ana-Maria Musa. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And before that, we have one replica on the opening report. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46917	Dear Mrs. Musa, tonight we're talking about very, very much, i.e. It's a new day, it's morning. We are talking about a very important topic where our citizens are interested, and unfortunately there is no interest in discussing what we are discussing here at this hour, which is the right to information, on the same information to all citizens as you have said to all levels of government from local self-government, regional to state level, to all public companies. What citizens are interested in is also tendering for employment, it is information in public procurement where corruption is located. People personally complain to me as a parliamentary representative, rather as a local councilman or a man who dealt with local politics a very important topic. You've given a number of statistical indicators, you've stated that the information that would tribal to be a secret is basically being used, and those that would tribal to be public are hiding, so that someone humbles himself and basically stops him in noble intentions. While those information which would be public, such as employment and transparency, are mainly hidden at all levels of government, here is an example of the award of concessions. You must be good with someone in the Parliament to get with the mayor's concession and it secretly goes so, we passed and we saw the protests of our islanders and in the coast and this is really an important topic and this is not the topic exactly I see the smile it's nice to see in the MPs at midnight and 15 minutes but the topic is really important and the citizens expect from the MPs and of course you to determine your part of the job and from the Government of the Executive Authority that the information is very important. Not only can the privileged caste of this society and the political elite have information for their similars from concessions, from public procurement, from various jobs and that is so and that is the fact. That's not funny. Thank you very much... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46918	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Is it possible the Commissioner would like a final word? No, thank you very much and thank the Commissioner for the further explanation of this report. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46919	Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2016. She's an information commissioner. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2016 is hereby adopted." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 136 for and 1 vote against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46920	We move to the next item of the agenda: - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2016. The applicant shall be a lawyer for gender equality on the basis of Article 22. Gender equality laws. The materials were delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the competent Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. He would ask the prosecutor for gender equality Mrs Višnja Ljubicic to explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46921	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. I thank you for being gathered in this issue and for discussing today, or tonight, the 2016 Work Report for the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality. Respecting your time today, today's debate I will not use my 30-minute time, I will really give you a very short statistical review, and I will give you certainly prepared for this report, I will give you the opportunity to say your opinion, that you have certain questions to answer. So in 2016, our institution took up a series of activities, we worked in the field of employment, social security, family relations, the field of media, political participation, an analysis of the education system, we followed our discriminatory foundations by the Law on Gender Equality, so sex, sexual orientation, marital family status including motherhood and gender identity. In our jurisdiction we worked on more than 2700 cases and this is an increase compared to the previous year by about 12%. In this regard, the trend of increasing individual complaints by 33% was maintained, the complaints continued to relate most to sexual discrimination in 91%, and mostly to women, 76%. The most common complaints refer to the field of labour, employment, social security, in the pool of all statistics are 42%. We have an exceptional increase in complaints about the public information system and the media, which is a 28% participation, domestic violence 18% and about 5% of complaints concerning education, 5% of sports and 5% of health care. Of all the complaints we received where we conducted the examination procedure, we found in more than 61% of cases that there were discrimination, suspicions of committing crimes were reported to the competent state attorney's office in 13 cases, 5 in the field of work, 4 in the family-partner relationship, 3 in the field of media and 1 in the field of health care. There was also a report of an offence in the field of work. We have requested an amendment to the legislation in 5 cases, 2 in the field of work, 1 in the field of education and 1 in the field of family care and violence in public space. We have been involved in... court proceedings in 2016 in 3 court proceedings, 2 are still in front of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, while in the 3rd court proceedings we were involved in an unfavourable treatment of women with regard to access to incentive severances. I must say that the first-degree court ruled in favour of the prosecutor and confirmed the position of the prosecutor's office. We also conduct mediation procedures, mostly between parties and welfare centres. We have seen in our work that when it comes to parental care where there is great animosity and negative tendencies between parents who cannot agree on parental childcare to try to find a way with centres, find a modus to solve certain problems in quality. We conducted as well as every year a number of research, we conducted three studies on our own, we gave 14 analyses, we published 5 publications and we conducted 2 memorandums of cooperation on police education and related to cooperation with the students of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. This year we made two more agreements with the military and with the Ministry of Demography. In 2016, I have to say from all these five and a half years I've been a lawyer is the most fruitful. Why? In 2016, the first European project "Glass Labyrinth", 2016 launched the implementation of the second European project "Coordination of Family and Business Life" and in December 2016, the European Commission informed us that they had adopted so that we had succeeded in the competition that we had received projects related to "Comprove the building of a more efficient system of protection for the fight against violence against women". So we are proud that in the last three years we have written three projects at EU level, the European Commission has recognised them as extremely high quality, we have included in the budget of the Republic of Croatia a million and 200 thousand euros. I must point out that this is a small team of 11 employees. As I said, complaints are mostly made by women in two-thirds of cases, the field of employment is the most Turbulent thing that we do not wonder if we know that women today make up most of the unemployed, most of the working contracts work for a certain time, that they are underpaid in certain sectors, that in a 100% number of cases that address us victims of sexual harassment, the pay gap at an annual level increases by one statistical point, it is now 12% and that they are facing a glass ceiling. In addition to sex on the labour market, women also face age-related obstacles, so life-life is parallel to this extremely significant factor when talking about discriminatory practice. I'm going to mention just a question about family relations against women who are deeply affected by women. Although we have a continuing decline in the crimes of domestic violence, we have a 10% increase in criminal acts with elements of violence among close individuals. What we have been pointing out for years is that there is a trend in brutalisation of violence against women, 2016 marked with never more femicides, so women killings by close people. We recognized it as one of the problems that we need to solve together with the ruling structure, organise a conference, bring in experts, and advocated that the government step into ratification of the Istanbul Convention. I must say that I am very pleased with the government's reaction because the next day the prime minister came out with a statement that a task force was formed in which we participated and contributed, as we always do, in the working groups of executive authorities because we put our professional and human resources at our disposal. We want to act proactively as it has proved to us in the work extremely well because I do not think that responding to the post-festum has brought us good solutions. I'd like to stop here, given the number of respondents to the hearing. I'm open to your questions and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46922	I thank the esteemed attorney for gender equality Mrs. Višnja Ljubicic. We have one replica, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46923	Thank you very much. Well, here's Madam Attorney-General, at the last minute, I've decided to replicate to you just mention one segment of your report that I think is extremely good. I've also reviewed this summary and this larger part. I am particularly pleased that you have a special degree of apostrophe in your report of women with disabilities who are multiplely discriminated against, of course not only women with disabilities but also many other women, but women with disabilities, unfortunately, and men with disabilities. More domestic violence is being committed against women with disabilities, and that is what the pain is and what the Ombudsman warns about people with disabilities from year to year, so here you are in your report, and I believe that both her and your report will be a textbook. If they read it as much as possible, we will be able to act on women with disabilities at least as little violence as possible. Because here you are also warning the Ombudsman about people with disabilities I think he has worked harder and better for women with disabilities where they report their violence year after year, however, it is evident that they are stronger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46924	I thank my colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's gone, thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed attorneys with associates. The SDP Club will support your Work Report for 2016. I will take advantage of this opportunity and I will note that I am extremely glad that the parent committee on which this report was discussed this time unanimously supported the same report compared to last year's report which was actually supported in most cases but there were certain representatives and representatives and members and members of the board who had set up a certain fence according to the report itself and indirectly according to the work of your office. What is quite clear, what you have stated in your opening statement is that the office has worked on 11.7% more cases compared to 2015, it is a trend that is felt from year to year, a trend of increase. Although when we look at the structure, then we can see that most of these actually objects are your initiative based on observations, i.e. acting on the protection of the implementation of the Gender Equality Act, which is fine, which is commendable. However, you can also see an increase in the number of applications, individual applications, unfortunately still the woman talking, we can read it in two ways. So, that the situation is getting worse, that there may be more violations of the law itself. However, I read it in a way that our fellow citizens and fellow citizens still gain more and more confidence from year to year in the attorney's office alone for gender equality. When we compare a little bit of the complaint itself in its own form, basically, the area, we can actually see that from year to year, 90% of the cases are similar, so basically they refer to 90.7% of the actual sex discrimination. Men, if they are mahogany applicants, this is about cases of parental care. However, here I would ask you, since you said that you yourself are open to some answers to our questions, I would like to hear your observation, or perhaps a little more detailed interpretation which causes this biggest increase by as much as 261%, if I am not mistaken, of the application when we talk about public information and the media. What encourages is the fact that when we compare the conduct of certain institutions according to your written recommendations regardless of the warnings or suggestions, that 84.4%, in a very high percentage, as reported in the report, your recommendations are respected. This adds to this thesis that not only our fellow citizens and fellow citizens but also the institutions themselves. Citizens and fellow citizens on the one hand have more confidence in the office and its work and on the other hand the institution takes seriously your written recommendations which I think is good and I think that in some foreseeable time it might actually meet the full purpose of existence and the Ombudsman and her office. Unfortunately, the labour market remains, I wouldn't be much longer, unfortunately there is a picture of Croatia when we look at it across the EU and we're still at the beginning of our colleagues, when we talk about the domination of women and their representation, in fact, that is, the domination of the working inactive population, which, of course, drags on economic poverty, which is a lot, I mean is not a much deeper problem but the same problem as this unemployment. So then it all reflects on actually the very demographic policy because an unemployed woman, a woman who doesn't have any economic and other security is very rarely decided for, if you want to have a baby. And then all of this together as you stated in your report, we cannot independently observe the case of a growing and greater departure, not just young people, but also people in their best years who are happy, employment and security for their family looking beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. And that is a serious Croatian problem. And for this reason, I think this report is the same thing that we need to seriously observe because in order to stop this trend of leaving Croatia, we need to work on making women less represented in this working inactive population, to offer them some kind of economic security in order to keep these cells, if you want families in Croatia themselves. And this government has also shown in its programming bases, in the pre-election campaign, but also here, I believe it will also show here that demographic policy is extremely important to them, so special attention should be paid to some aspects of your report. Women are still more vulnerable to finding employment, easier to lose, if they find it again, means that we have a rapid situation, despite the increase in employment, which is decreasing unemployment. So there are fewer unemployed men and women. There are still women, and in most cases they draw a thicker end when we talk about some kind of ratio of concluded contracts to a certain and indefinite time. So women are the ones who dominate this part of the contract for a certain time, which again leads to this financial, economic, generally greater sense of uncertainty. What's not good at all is that the percentage of women are members of the management of stock companies in view of some official statistics of institutions that keep account and maintain statistics is that the percentage has fallen. So women in these roof bodies, the governing bodies are still, I will not say sub-represented but unfortunately their representation rather than that, given all the mechanisms at our disposal, given the Law on Gender Equality, this percentage is reduced and their impact is reduced in this section. It is particularly interesting and very, very symbolic in some way, perhaps even part of the picture of Croatia, the fact that a man earns $11,400 a year more gross than a woman, so he has in some way 1.5 times the salary is more valuable or more valuable than a woman for the same. And what you and yourself have stated is very likely to happen if this trend continues to this extent that we will have a situation very quickly that a man at that annual level will do nothing to cause the very fact that the other sex receives two months' wages more than a woman for the same job, which is something that simply none of us in this assembly have an objective explanation, an explanation or justification for such a thing. What you have apostrophe in your report is good that the government is thinking or already some things aren't covered by this report but in this year we moved on to maternity and parental support and I think that maybe they'll see it in some way in the 2017 report, so that's where we've made some shifts. But the question is how it will reflect on the very fact that we are actually going to continue to drop the number of men, fathers who are using maternity leave. You yourself have said an increase in the number of female murders by those close men 79% of the highest percentage in the last seven years and the frantic data that continued the trend in the number of recorded rapes and sexual relations without consent by as much as 220% among the close persons. I am personally sorry that we missed the adoption of a new law that we discussed some month, a month and a half ago in the Croatian Parliament, the Law on protection against domestic violence which, despite the fact that a good part of the opposition's representatives warned or pointed out the need to regulate and protect those persons, especially women who have partners with whom they are not in some form of an extramarital community or share a household, they remain unprotected and we have failed to define the protection of women in a partner relationship, but not as defined by the lex specialis in some way. You have been very positive in this report according to 52 curical documents, I won't have much on the curricula, here in the Parliament I keep talking about it, which, in its scale, was supposed to be among other things in this new concept of school, especially in this programme reform, to have something that would make children adopt certain values, not only adopt factographic facts, but also to be ready to be people and to build this positive system of values, culture of non-violence, culture of respect, and thus respect for human rights, but also the importance of understanding of gender equality. Unfortunately, in what state the curricula reform itself is now, these curriculative documents will not be brought to life so quickly, we will wait for some steps to be made in our education system in order to create complete people who have all the necessary knowledge, skills and competences that when they leave the education system they face all those challenges that simply exist in the 21st century and are closely related to the application of the Law on Gender Equality. Political participation, in the west nothing new, in the east of the same story, representation of women in the Croatian Parliament never worse after the 2016 elections 12.6%. Some of this changed slightly during the replacement mandates when men in most cases became executive officials, so, of course, as the first replacements, as women usually do, so that share increased by about 6%. But what worries is when we talk about the preferential vote that citizens still do not recognise women because they seem to me that only five women in these 2016 elections were directly elected to the Croatian Parliament thanks to the preferential votes. I wouldn't be too long in this terrible fact that there were some initiatives in 2016 to take us back to the right of women to manage their bodies and make very important decisions about their reproductive health. I hope that, in the 2017 report, there will be as little as possible. It's not good if we can't keep the status quo if we can't go forward and do certain steps in protecting humanity, dignity, the integrity of every person and her right to master her mind and body, it's no good to go back and put pressure on women and their right to choose. And full support for what stems from the entire report, to bring forward a new National Strategy on Protection against Family Violence for the period 2017-2022, a new national policy for gender equality since 2016-2020, which unfortunately has not yet been adopted, and we are already in 2017 and for the shortest ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Here I think we'll hopefully be able to express hope that in 2017, however, through this statistical data that I believe will be more favourable, we'll be able to say that we've made some progress on gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46926	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. We have one replica. Dear colleague Stephen Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46927	Thank you, Vice President. Just for a little while. You mentioned fellow political participation on the lists yes, exactly that 12 or slightly more than 12%, 12.6% or 19 MPs were elected directly to this House. But it should also be noted that there were 39.7% of what they're going to say we almost met that minimum gender sub-representation quota, of course. It was also decided here that 54 of the 177 candidate lists had that quota. But what am I saying? So, we are far from putting women on the list by regulation of a certain quota to meet that quota. It has to change systematically, it has to change in a sense because I think it's already in one way degradation for women themselves to be there because they're women. It should also not be in the way of thinking, because they are then placed on the lists to fill the quotas, and in fact we do not get the result of what the legislator wanted to say. Now that is involving more women in political and public action, it is absolutely what is the priority and it must be systematically done from kindergartens, primary schools and in the education system certainly distracting. Also, you mentioned parental support, compensation and leave it of course much harder for a woman to decide on motherhood in terms of career and career, and yes, whether to look at solutions there legally as regards the relief of tax extras or benefits that may be one way especially if we are talking about some demographic measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46928	I thank my esteemed colleague, Curaya. Answer, dear colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46929	Thank you, dear colleague. I'm creeping you out when I hear the finding that the odds aren't good because they're sending a message that someone's on the list just because it's a woman from history, I don't know from the beginning of the world quite naturally and normally whether there's a man not on the list just because he's a man. I know, okay. I didn't tell you that. I, in principle, might be polymizing with myself right now. Here, let me do that in this late hour. Unfortunately, at this point, the odds are the only mechanism that we can force political parties who themselves are not aware of the importance of having some percentage of the population on their lists where women make up 51%. So, if society, the parties are willing to give up the majority of their population, they should in some way represent that same population, then the quotas are the only mechanism for us to ensure that until that consciousness is working. But I don't have that much faith in it anymore with us being able to, I want to believe that we are. However, you also see in these local elections when these fines finally started to apply, fines for not respecting the adequate gender representation of some parties were consciously re-emerged, very often it was the case that they did not respect it again, they were willing to pay me not to know what kind of penalties just for that. Yet, he will not act in the way we should actually act on our own feelings, not because of what it says in a document. That's what doesn't give me any trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46930	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac for her reply. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club, the distinguished colleague Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46931	Thank you, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Advocate for Gender Equality with fellow Members, the esteemed colleague, since he is close one by night, and we are a total of 13 or 14 including the Vice President. I think I'll be very, very brief. So there's no need to repeat everything we could read in the report. And I don't know if it's symbolic that in these late night hours comes the subject of a report about how many women have been beaten, abused and raped, but how meaningful it is now to discuss it will also leave it to everyone for assessment. What is most important to say is that the Ombudsman and her office have done according to the laws and regulations and within their means. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this report, and the data most concerned by this report is that in the last seven years this largest number of women killed in 2016, a total of 15 women were killed. And that's almost 80% of the increase, but of course it's not up to the child's attorney, it's up to all of us, and hopefully by the next report, we'll try to make sure that if we can do anything to make sure that this number never happens again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46932	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46933	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here as a man who has been dealing with human rights for six years at this level I think I can responsibly argue that the reports are our attorney in this case, since all women are lacmus paper of the human rights situation, but also of the general state in Croatian society. And I'm going to back that up with one clear piece of evidence, and here's from the summary of this report that talks about birth-disphoric problems, that's a subject that's kind of marked up a lot in the last year and in Parliament's life. We also had a topical discussion about it. Namely, their complaints come to a very slow response by the National Health Council, which is very threatening to these people some of the things that we understand under normal circumstances. What do I mean by this? I would like to say that our attorneys are always warning of current problems although we are now talking about the report from last year as we say they are indicative when we talk about a general cross-section of the human rights situation in the Republic of Croatia. But what I wanted to discuss and why I really wanted to discuss is something else, one very important segment in which I wanted to highlight and who I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity, so it is not necessarily about the report, but it is very important in the segment of human rights protection when we talk about gender equality, which is, of course, the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and violence in the family that was brought to Istanbul in 2011 more well known as the Istanbul Convention which Croatia has not yet adopted, ratified in Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, we are one of the few countries in an environment that has not yet done so. Far away in 2013, to be precise January 22nd, Croatia has signed this convention, now half of 2017 has not been adopted yet. The Istanbul Convention, as you know, establishes the first legally binding and comprehensive international mechanism against violence against women and domestic violence, has made more and more recommendations for the EU to ratify this at EU level, therefore not only at Member State level. One of the key recommendations of the Ombudsman is to adopt or ratify this Convention, as was the case in the report last year in this year. It is unfortunate that in the procedure of the Assembly we have the Law on the ratification or confirmation of this Convention which, unfortunately, was refused only by an excuse, I would say, not even by reason or argument, but by the fact that another law is in the process. When are we gonna see him? I don't know. I'm sorry that Croatia is particularly important in this region we have set some new standards regarding human rights that we have failed so badly in this region. And why is it so important and why do I think it matters? In 2014, the EU's Agency for Fundamental Human Rights conducted a comprehensive survey on this particular issue, which is the topic of domestic violence and violence against women. Otherwise, you can find a report from this agency in the lobby of the Parliament, each year it is issued very extensively, very thoroughly, so not only on gender equality, violence against women, etc. but generally speaking. But there are a few things I would especially like to underline. This comprehensive research has been conducted in all 28 countries and has not been based on discussions with 42000 women from all member states. The data is actually devastating, they show that physical and sexual violence against women is very much represented, so more than we might be persuasing. That 8% of women at EU level have experienced physical and or sexual violence during the year prior to this study, while even one of the three women has experienced a form of physical or sexual abuse since she was 15. You'll agree with me that this is an extremely large percentage, too large. Data for Croatia show that 21% of women have experienced a form of physical or sexual violence since they were 15 and 5% back 12 months since the start of research. 3% of women in Croatia have experienced sexual violence from their partner since they were 15 years old and even 12% of any form of physical violence by their partners since they were 15. Also collected data show that you are watching this now, as many as 39% of women in Croatia think violence against women is very common. Otherwise, the EU average is 27% which is the same high, but you can see how much we are above the average, and 42% think it's relatively common. It's actually a devastating data that gives us all a chance to think about this problem, but also about the ratification of this convention. The prosecutor's report on gender equality, I will call for the 2015 report shows that according to the Family Protection Act and data on recorded status, movement and some characteristics of domestic violence in 2015 due to the domestic crime, police have reported 137775 people. According to sexual structure, why am I telling you this? I'd like to draw your attention to the sexual structure of the victims. According to the sex structure of offenders, 10575 men and 3200 women were registered. So the perpetrators of domestic violence are in 77% of cases men and 23% women. We also owe our colleagues and colleagues the civilization reach that we have ourselves, and then those who are victims of violence to ratify the Istanbul Convention as soon as possible, to approach the problem of violence against women and domestic violence as you can see from the Empirical data more frequently, please let us do so as soon as possible. September is already too late, September is three years too late, and for victims of violence it is too late to do so today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46934	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for this debate. The following has been registered for discussion by distinguished counterpart Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Madam Attorney-General with his associates. Well, here's the thing. I'm not gonna cut my hearing short. I'm gonna try to stretch it to the maximum of ten minutes allowed. It will be my little protest that you put such an important topic in one hour of the night, and for you, Madam Attorney anyway, you wait all day for your turn so ten minutes less or more anyway. As always, Madam Attorney-General, you have prepared a very quality report with a lot of data and a lot of trends. You point to the problems of society, you're very engaged, you're proactive, you offer recommendations, you offer solutions you offer solutions, I just kind of imagine that you should work as a lawyer or attorney for equality of affairs and otherwise lawyers. You yourself said in your opening statement that in the last year you worked almost 12% more cases than in the previous year. We're a lot of people with problems, and that's why I'm not surprised. You've been reviewing cases that mostly refer to women, and that's no wonder. There's a large number of complaints about discrimination and sex, so we can't say that's more surprising. You have pointed out trends that deserve special attention on the labour market and low employment rates or work activities among women. I would say that we have crashed again into the ambition of economic dependence on women, harder employment, more and more frequent employment for a certain time, again we see this trend of growth in the past year, continuing to increase the wage gap between men and women. So I can only hope that the recommendations you made, which relate to strengthening women's equal position in the labour market, will come up with fertile soil and deliver results. In this report of yours, it is very difficult to get around the problem that the problems had previously talked about, which is the problem of family violence. The figures clearly point out that domestic violence is a gender conditioned violence and mainly directed towards women, so many times you emphasized it in many of your actions. In the last ten years nearly 300 women have been killed, and annually we have a large number of 12 crimes and crimes of domestic violence. That would mean, once upon a time, I said 12 thousand and beaten and frightened and raped and threatened and murdered women. Some estimates say there are three times as many unreported violence, and I don't know it's scary enough without that supplement. Last year 18 women were killed in Croatia as we heard, which means that practically 20 days a woman was killed by the hand of her former or current partner. And that's a lot more than the average we had last decade. So the figures continue to point to significant and serious physical threats by close men and men. And what concerns you very much, and you have also warned yourself many times that unfortunately violence from the criminal domain is increasingly going into the criminal justice domain and in an increasing number of cases ends with tragic consequences and tragic outcomes. So the trend in the growth of violence is obvious, the state institutions and I don't blame anyone anyway, it doesn't matter who's in power, it's rare to treat violence in society as if it's a private problem, as if it's just this family, just that man and that woman. It's just not like that. Violators and murderers are the culprits, but the responsibility of the state is unquestionable. States, when I say states, I mean competent ministries and institutions that should worry about the problem. So all state stakeholders and all those in whose domain what I said violence against women should be aware of that fact and the fact that violence against women and families has been on the rise lately, and that means indirectly that we as a society do not politics, executive power however we do not do enough. Despite the trend, I will now come up with something that my colleagues have talked about, but I need to stress it once more, so despite this trend of increasing violence, Croatia has unfortunately not ratified the Istanbul Convention. Unfortunately, when we discussed the Law on Protection against Family Violence a few months ago, it was the right time that if we had not already ratified the Convention then at least that some good things, important, key things were implemented now into the law, we could do it. For example. as regards the very definition of gender-related violence. Too bad it didn't happen, I think it missed out a lot because I have to admit I'm not very optimistic about the time when we're going to ratify the convention. I think it is quite legitimate to ask the question, isn't it paradoxical that Croatia is practically the only country in an environment that has not ratified the convention along with Macedonia. The team seems more like a paradox to me if we know that the UN special rapporteur for violence against women is actually a prominent Croatian diplomat Dubravka Simonovic. There is no doubt that we need this ratification, although very often when I discuss it with my colleagues, we always get to the topic of money, so it's being determined, but it's expensive, the convention costs, the ratification of the convention costs the state tremendously. So I always wonder how much a woman's life costs? And how much is it that one child lives without his mother because she was killed by the hand of her ex or current partner? Therefore, ratification as an extremely important international document in the repression of settlements against women will help us to make policies and a comprehensive and uniform legislative framework. I'm sure of it. I am sure that by ratifying the Convention some things in Croatian society will really change significantly. And that's why I think it's too bad we're stalling. We at the SDP club, we have pointed out many times and we believe that violence against women including domestic violence is actually something that undermines the fundamental values of our society. And therefore do not ratify such an important document we are actually sending a bad message not only to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also to Europe. I would like to remind you that an emergency has already arrived from the Council of Europe in connection with ratification. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic announced a year ago, but unfortunately he only established a task force to prepare the law. I would like to remind again that on March 8th, the SDP Club actually sent a proposal for a bill to confirm the convention in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, after what, four months, we still haven't expected to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament. But it would be good if we just went from word to deed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46936	I thank my esteemed colleague, Romani Jerkovic. We have a final word on behalf of the rapporteur, the esteemed Ombudsman Višnja Ljubicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is the fact that we have passed certain areas and that there have been some questions related to our report, clarification of statistics, emphasis on ratification of the international convention, question of persons with disabilities, parental leave, compensation, issue of media information. Allow me to answer the question of the distinguished voter MPs. An increase of 27% in citizens' complaints about media information and sexism is something we face more and more frequently year by year. We are actually glad that citizens and citizens have become more conscious. Indeed, by civil society organisations, by citizens and citizens on a daily basis, we accept complaints about advertising videos, related to advertising campaigns, related to billboards, related to media advances by public figures, politicians, politicians who use rooted gender stereotypes, prejudices and most often sexisms in their public discourse. Not to mention commercials that are used exclusively by a woman's body and shown in an extremely humiliating way. Today the media has extraordinary power, they create social values for us, young people are exposed to such content. And I have to say that this institution was really open in, in every complaint we've had public statements and we've pointed to the harmfulness of certain media content that we've been working on. I have to say that it's only in the media section of our move that it's just the tip of the ice santa because we're so bombed by certain sexist ads and stereotypes that we can almost react on a daily basis. As regards the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, this is something that has since the beginning of the signing of 2013 been calling for the government and the Croatian Parliament to launch ratification because if a much poorer state in our environment that has not yet yet met the standards that we have in national legislation and through the activists of our civil society organisations or finally through the existence of independent institutions have not reached our level signed the Istanbul Convention, in the process of adapting national legislation to the requirements of the Istanbul Convention. I'm glad to see that after four years we've managed to pass a bill that I hope will be passed. What we have pointed out for the importance of this convention is, and we have also mentioned very often in conversation, violence, domestic violence, violence against women, partner violence, it is that we want to clearly process the perpetrator of violence through the implementation of the Istanbul Convention with a very clear message, a clear penalty. So far, these were very conditional convictions, fines that had no weight and to establish a system of protection of victims through shelters for which a means of co-financing of sustainability through SOS phones would be available regionally, so through the housing of victims. There are still a number of issues in this circle to protect domestic violence or violence against women that we haven't closed and we haven't finally closed that circle down to the end. And I believe that, through the implementation of the Convention and the application at a practical level, we will also open these issues. The participation of women in the labour market is mentioned, and I must say that the Institute of Working for a certain time, so that is not the rule of our positive legislation. This is an exception, it is an exception that employers use not the labour market almost unpunished. Those complaints of citizens who come to us end in such cases most often also in the case of labour inspectors, so we have good cooperation with inspections of work, health, protest and such contracts and such discriminatory practice that women usually go through at inspection level. Finally, I would like to say that this government, this state has defined itself through the constitutional principle of equal access and equal opportunities and equal benefits, and out of the results of the work of all citizens and citizens of this country and that the debate on these issues when we speak and most often mention women that they are the ones who report, that they are precisely those who are victims of discriminatory practices, are not just a question relating to the human rights of women, that this is a social, social, economic and political issue and prosperity and tolerance of this society. Here's my thanks. Once again, I would like to thank the representatives' clubs for supporting this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46938	I would like to thank the attorney-in-law of the distinguished Mrs. Višnja Ljubicic for this additional explanation. This concludes the debate. I would like to thank one more attorney, Višnja Ljubicic and her associates. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46939	Report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2016. The applicant is a lawyer for gender equality. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Advocate for Gender Equality for 2016 is accepted." Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 130 for and 3 votes against the delivered conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46940	We move to the next item of the agenda: - The report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development for 2015. The report shall be submitted to the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials under Article 10. Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The discussion was conducted by the responsible Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The government also submitted a report. Please report to the applicant the Honorable President of the National Council for Human Resources Development, Ms. Ružica Belo Lučić, to give an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46941	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Allow me to present in short lines the National Council for Human Resources Development and in the shortest possible lines to give you a report on its work in 2015. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework The National Council for the Development of Human Potentials is the central strategic body of the Republic of Croatia for the development of the Croatian Qualifications Framework. With the monitoring and evaluation of the effects of HKO's work on sectoral councils and the register of HKOs, the important role of the council is to assess, evaluate and coordinate public policies primarily in the field of education, employment, lifelong professional orientation and regional development, and to propose measures of integrated policies for the development of human potentials and their impact on achieving strategic objectives and increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and the development of society as a whole. The National Council was appointed in June 2014 to be established in September of the same year. The president and members were appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the government of the Republic of Croatia for a five-year term. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The HKO law and it is made up of the president and 24 members who have proposed ministries, agencies, chambers, higher schools and institutions of adult education, the Association of trade unions, the Association of Employers and civil society organisations. As I said, the constitutional session was held in September 2014 so the 2015 work report presents a report on the first year of work of that council in which the council was being stalked, familiarising with the performance of its function. From the constitutive session until the end of 2015 the National Council held 12 sessions, it included five thematic working groups that were still focused on certain topics and activities from the National Council's work programme. These thematic working groups held 22 meetings by the end of 2015. At the very beginning of its work, the Council produced a document "The vision of the mission of the principle of cooperation, objectives and framework programme of work" by the National Council for the development of human potentials for 2015 and of course adopted it at the beginning of that year. At certain meetings of the National Council, it developed its role to coordinate activities related to the analysis, study and projection of human potential development, to bring together stakeholders to consult and make recommendations and to direct funding from European and national funds. The following activities were held in this context in the first year of the term of office, and I will briefly specify them. A study of future labour market needs with the primary objective of developing the methodology and analysis of future labour market needs and the collection of necessary data was also agreed, and recommendations were adopted on sector-oriented approach to the definition of enrolment quotas in secondary and higher education, and then discussed the models of HKO application according to the levels of education on which we developed and adopted recommendations on the application of HKO in the field of higher education and recommendations on the application of HKO in the field of adult education. They were held in that year at a workshop on HKO and it was agreed to create a eu module with instructions for making standard professions, qualifications standards and learning outcomes with the aim of education about HKO a wide range of stakeholders in such a way eu modules can do so. On 22 and 23 October 2015, a document of the National Council's communication strategy for 2015 and as a result of this document of the communication strategy and of the one-year work of the Council in Zagreb was held, the first annual conference of the National Council entitled "Croatian Qualification Framework of Knowledge and Creativity", which brought together domestic and European experts in the fields of education, science and technology, art and economy, young researchers and project holders related to the development and application of HKO and more than 200 visitors. Due to great interest in the topic of this conference, the conference continued to take place. Last year we had, and we'll have it before the end of this year. The National Council for Human Potential Development has worked intensively in its first year of work with other bodies, commissions, working groups responsible for certain aspects of human potential development. All activities of the National Council for Human Resources Development are financed in fact through projects of the European Social Fund, and all of the documents mentioned above, including all records of held sessions and all activities of the National Council for Human Resources Development, are published on www.qualifications.hr so that you can inform yourself there. I invite you to see in more detail what the National Council was actually doing in the first year of its work, but also what it was doing in 2016 and what it is doing today. Thank you for your attention. As soon as possible and as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46942	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the National Council for the development of the human potential of Mrs. Ružica Belo Lučić for this additional explanation. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Kreso Beljak. He's not present. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's not present. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, distinguished colleague Vesna Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46943	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Dr. Bejo Lucic, president of the National Council for the development of human potentials. Here, as you have heard from the opening presentation of Mrs Bejo Lučić, since the National Council for Human Resources Development was founded in 10 months 2014 practically we here have a report for the first year of work of the National Council. And I will not really, in view of this late, early hour, repeat all that Mrs. Beljo Lučić said, but I will conclude that the National Council as the central strategic body for the development of the Croatian qualification framework in, therefore, the past period of 2015 has carried out its legal task and therefore the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will fully support this report. Of course, I also use the opportunity to commend the report itself, access to the very methodology of making a report containing a series of very detailed activities with all the accompanying contributions and documents. And of course, I need to stress that it is still necessary to strengthen the role of the National Council in a way that respects and consistent application of all Council acts and recommendations, so in practice, above all, to strengthen the reformal, therefore the role of the Croatian qualification framework in the Croatian education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46944	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesni Bedekovic. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Belo Lucic, the colleagues and colleagues you have endured. Well first of all, I'll agree with my colleague's pay phone before I do. Absolutely commendable in this report. I think this is actually an ideal example of how reports and how to structure the work of a National Council should look. Absolutely everyone who had this report of an opportunity to hold hands you saw visual equipment, the way it was written, structured. I think you'll support me in that this is really one of the best quality reports that I've had in my hands that's been coming to this House of Commons. Of course I can't not mention that the report is 2015, we are already in 2017. But good, that's it. A few things, of course, we will support this report, but I need to point out a few things that are also related to the work of the National Council, but also to the work of the competent ministry, in this case, the Ministry of Science and Education. In fact, I have to say that we are concerned that it is a resorient ministry, but other involved bodies have largely not done much to implement the recommendations of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials. It is particularly concerned that the Ministry of Science and Education did not continue these activities in 2016, especially since little and/or nothing is done to implement the Croatian qualification framework in defining educational outcomes at all levels of education. This, of course, has a major negative impact on employability, especially those who end up in vocational education, but also more and higher, I'll tell you about it later. I'm afraid I have to find out that she's leaving by leaving. Beljo Lučić and the arrival of Minister Shuster all mentioned, and in particular cooperation with the Special Expert Committee for the Implementation of the Education Strategy, and the Expert Working Group for the implementation of full curricula reform not only cared but experienced a regression which was disastrously bad. I must also conclude that the Constitutional Court's decision that abolished some of the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework has actually compromised our compliance with the European Qualification Framework and the comparability of students who end our universities with those in the European Union. I don't think I have to tell you how much this actually puts our students in a position of subjugation, i.e. in an unfavourable position when they appear on the labour market outside the Republic of Croatia. Once again, allow me to congratulate on my work and thank you on behalf of myself first and then my club Mrs. Roses of Belo Lucic. I think you really did it on a high level. And I'm afraid it's going to be difficult actually to continue in this trail, or I'm sure since the report is already on the agenda, or you can read it, the 2016 report won't be, or even not quite like that. Because unfortunately, the government of Tihomir Oreskovic with Schuster, and then the government of Andrej Plenkovic with Minister Barisic, is the brakes of reforming our education, the development of our education, and thus the development of Croatian human potentials as the most important resource Croatia has. I will not mention the last minister deliberately because she has not yet made any concrete moves, but what I have to conclude, unfortunately, is that, first of all, by inaction of the ministry and the competent institutions, and then by this decision of the Constitutional Court on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, the work of the National Council is quite substantial, I would say, I would like to say that it is not obstructive, but it is not in line with what we expected and it is not what it should be. In any case, support this report. I hope the 2017 report will be at least half of what we've had a chance to read in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46946	I thank my esteemed colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, for this debate. Here you go, Mrs. Rose. Bejo Lučić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank the clubs for supporting this report, thank you for the report's praise, it's nice to hear. I thank you, of course, for all of you who have endured this point before the summer break, because still in the autumn... report, but I hope that in the autumn we will be waiting for the 2016 report, and then we will discuss the topics that are open from the SDP club because they concern 2016. Thank you, good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46948	I thank the esteemed Lady Rose, Belo Lucic. This concludes the debate. And once again thanks the presidents of the National Council for the development of the human potential of Mrs. Ružica Bejo Lučić for further reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46949	Reports on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development for 2015. The applicant is the National Council for Human Resources Development. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development for 2015 is hereby adopted." Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes 130 for and 4 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46950	We move to the next item of the agenda: - The report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2015. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the competent Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. I would like a representative of the motion of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Tomislav Dulibic, to give an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46951	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs. The report contains pooled data for the year 2015 treated for drug abuse, drug abuse data, drug abuse data, and an overview of activities in the field of drug abuse, prevention, treatment, addiction and rehabilitation carried out by relevant ministries, bodies, county, associations and therapeutic communities during 2015. According to the results of the survey, the abuse of funds of addiction in the general population of the Republic of Croatia in 2015 was consumed by 20.3% of respondents at least once in their lives. The most commonly used illegal drug in Croatia was cannabis. The lifelong prevalence of taking any new drug was 2.7%. Croatia is above the European average for the consumption of illegal drugs among young people and new drugs. In 2015, a total of 2842 crimes of drug abuse or 4.9% of the total number of criminal offences reported during 2015. 6709 misappropriations were filed for the initiation of violations under the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse in 2015. During 2015, 8921 of all drug types were seized in total, representing a reduction of 2.7% compared to the previous year. In 2015, 20 new psychoactive substances and drugs were seized in the Republic of Croatia, and in 2016, the number of newly discovered drugs was four new drugs that were not on the drug list. In 2015, 54 people died from overdose while 59 people died from overdose in 2014. In 2015, there were 7537 people in the health system who were treated compared to 2014 when 7812 persons were reduced by 275 persons or 3.5% and could be said to have continued a multi-annual decline in the number of people treated in the health system. As in previous years, the largest number of people have been treated for their opiate addiction of 81% and the proportion of non-opiate addicts is 19.8%. From 2008 to 2015 it is a relatively stable trend of treatment addicts. The estimated total public expenditure in 2015 amounted to 797 million kuna, although according to this assessment, it appears that a large amount of public expenditure is being spent on the prevention of drug abuse, an average of only 0.55 total public expenditure or 0.24% of GDP. The measures provided for in the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence were actively implemented in 2015 in all educational institutions and in the system of social care for the protection of children and young people and prevention of addiction. It is also continued with the continued implementation of the project to resociate addicts. Since 19 April 2007, when a resociation project was adopted by 31 December 2015, HZZ spent a total of professional guidance and assessment of work capacity for 796 addicts, of which 268 addicts were involved in educational programmes, and 566 treated addicts achieved employment in public work and benefited from incentives for employment. In addition, 669 addicts have obtained the right to education on the burden of the Ministry of Science and Education, and for some 7,000 addicts, assistance in resociation has been provided by associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46952	I thank the distinguished Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's not present. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished colleague Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the government's Office's report on drug abuse. It is like so far very detailed and gives a good insight into this problem. We believe that the national strategy for the period 2012 to 2017 was a good basis for a solid policy and interdisciplinary action in order to bring this problem down to the lowest possible extent. The previous strategies were not bad either, they would be good and new, which must be done which I believe is in the works. They are always no matter who writes them proof that there is a national awareness of a very big problem and of the need to deal with this problem as a society. Of course, no one expects miracles because a magic wand doesn't exist. No one expects this problem to be resolved and disappeared overnight, but we rightly expect the state institutions to act in a coordinated, proactive, comprehensive manner when it comes first to prevention. Both the best strategies and the best laws and the best action plans are often developed on the harsh reality of non-cooperation or ineffectiveness, inadequacy, not co-ordination, and therefore we really welcomed when the office started the evaluation process of previous strategies and everything that was done in one period, to see what was good and what was not, where we were wrong and what we would do to correct it is actually extremely important. We think that's what needs to be done, so public policies should be designed and run. We have a social problem, we bring strategy, we bring action plans, we implement measures, and after some time we carry out the evaluation of what we've been carrying out, so in a way we close the circle, and so we should actually work with strategies, and that only makes sense. Why does it matter? This is important because of the limited amount of public money, it is important because of the responsibility of those who make decisions on spending public money that is becoming less and less. In this sense, it is extremely important to see, prove, determine what of what we do and finance gives results that programs are effective that make sense to continue to finance, and those programs that are worth and proven to achieve results should be made more visible, they should be made recognizable. Local initiatives or programmes of best practice should be done with national programmes. Many times we have, and I have personally mentioned here in the debates of life skills training that began from my County of Primorje-goranska from the city of Rijeka, a program that you know for sure which gave extraordinary results, we have been spending for many years now showing that in those schools where young people are taught how to be strong, self-aware, and how to resist everything that today presents a challenge in today's world and life. So it turns out that such young people are much more resistant to challenges such as alcohol, such as drugs, such as smoking, and today is also recognized at national level. Today, not only is it held in the Primorje-Gorski County, it is spent both in Zadar and in Međimurje, but several years in a row in all schools. It's not a magic wand, but it gives results, sometimes a local initiative has become a systematic organisational model and useful tool for teachers in the work. We believe there's been a step in writing the report, it's already been seen on several occasions. Now we finally know how much is spent, for example. for prevention. We didn't know that for a long time. We knew that you spent a certain amount of money, not small, but we didn't know how much you were going on certain activities, how much on treatments, on rehab, on prevention, it's good that we finally know that. About 35 million kuna, 68 goes on treatment activities, 7 million on damage reduction programs. However, we still do not know what programmes are spent on public money, who implements these programs, and what effect. But there's something that I'm not sure is encouraging, so regardless of some total amount that might seem small to us, it's still 0.24% of GDP or 0.55% of the state budget, which is not so much. Although the government office report has seen positive changes in the past tense, we hold that it would be good to find answers to other questions, such as these. What we do with young experimentators, what we do at the early discovery of addicts, are we satisfied with the work of county centres to fight addictions that have passed into the jurisdiction of the Public Health Office, what we do on the rehabilitation and rehabilitation that we implement in this regard. So there are almost no children today whose start-up or further development is not marked by even the minimal risk of developing a drug-related problem, but also by many others lurking at every step, and therefore the fight against drug abuse really requires an organised multi-sectoral approach to the prevention of consequences, as well as significant resources in countering enlargement and unwanted influence on individuals and society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46954	I thank my esteemed colleague Romani Jerkovic for this debate. We are moving on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, dear colleague Kresho Beljak. He's not present. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46955	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Two fundamental pillars of the drug abuse policy are the reduction of supply and demand for drugs and are the basis of a national strategy, action plan and the Law on drug abuse. The report for 2014 was March 11, 2016, we are on the report today, we have a regular problem with the delay report but here we hope this will change. This report contains 134 pages, it is based on a national strategy, as counterpart Jerkovic said, a new national strategy for the next eight-year period is in preparation and will, unlike the previous strategies, unite illegal drugs, socially acceptable drugs, alcohol and tobacco and new addictions that we face, so the issue of gambling and the issue of the Internet. There's a lot of positive stuff, a lot more positive stuff. The Co-ordination Committee is responsible for the control of drug abuse by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is headed by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Marija Pejcinović-Burić and the office in charge of co-ordination at the operational level. For the past few years, we have had a problem with the level of the Croatian Institute of Public Health as a roof institution and coordination with the county public health institutions. Namely, county institutions, the vast majority of these county institutions worked very well but lacked coordination. There are also county commissions to combat drug abuse, and this should be done to improve the coordination of these county commissions and the kind of monitoring. 982 projects were reported in 2015, most of which were related to prevention. It is worth mentioning, therefore, that the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth, guidelines for psychosocial treatment of drug addiction, the creation of an internet base of new psychoactive substances. And what is also mentioned, therefore, is the issue of public expenditure which can be divided into total and specific and estimated non-specific. Of which, 57% were treated, 30% prevention, 6% damage reduction, 4% criminal repressive system and 3% social reintegration. The Croatian system of treatment of opiate but non-opiate addicts is good. And when we get to the meetings of the European Monitoring Centre, we're always at the top. Of course, there is a need for additional upgrades, and according to the evaluation of the Timbos Institute, above all, to inform the system, I think it is a priority related to the system of treatment of addicts. Croatian model is a model that we can advertise to others. And in the end, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this report for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46956	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Celic, for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Gordan Maras. He's not present. Does the Secretary of State want a final word? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I thank my fellow State Secretary Tomislav Dulibic and his associates for further reasons. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46957	Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2015. The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2015. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 132 for, 3 abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46958	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Report on Free Zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2015; Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 25 of the Free Zones Act. You received the material by dispatching the Parliament. The discussion was conducted by the committee responsible for the economy. You also received the report at the session. I ask the motionary's representative, State Secretary Natasha Mikush-Zigman, to give an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46959	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs and MPs. So here's the fourth report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia. Given the weather, here's what I'm really going to try to do is to be as brief as possible in the presentation. During 2015, users of concessions for the establishment of free zones, or concessionaries as well as users of free zones pointed out in previous years that business in the free zones regime and after Croatia entered the EU to a greater extent attractive to those users, i.e. companies operating with third countries and those operating in free zones on maritime goods. So it is less attractive to those acting on the EU's internal market. As regards the number of free zones, changes were made in 2015 as regards their number compared to 2014. In early 2015, a total of 13 free zones were operated in the Republic of Croatia, of which 9 land and 4 port free zones are situated on the maritime good. And at the end of 2015 there were 12 of them, 8 of them were land-based, in Varazdin, Zagreb, Osijek, Vukovar, Krapina, Kukuljanovo, Škrljevo and Split and 4 were ports of free zones, Pula, Rijeka, Split and Ploče. There was a change in the number of free zones in the '15s due to requirements submitted by the concessionaire for the free zone "Djuro Djakovic" from Slavonski Brod and in the economic interest of the sole user of the free zone, so the company that operated within the scope and which was also the owner of the property. Therefore, precisely because of the property ownership of the property, in which the business was taken, a decision was taken, i.e. the user made a decision that his business in the special zone regime was no longer acceptable and the only solution was to abolish the free zone regime in the area. The aggregated data on business in the free zones mentioned in this report show that in 2015, a total of 137 users were employed, 7739 workers were employed, users of the free zones were on average employed by 57 workers, therefore they fall mainly into the order of medium-sized entrepreneurs. However, when one of the largest users of free zones is excluded from that total, therefore the Varazdin Free Zone, which has nearly 4,000 employees, the number of these average employees falls to 28, resulting in them being small entrepreneurs. The main financial indicator of users of free zones in 2015 is the following, a total of €5.57 billion was achieved, the share of exports in total revenue was 68.4%, and exports from free zones amounted to $ 3.81 billion. In view of what I said earlier after Croatia's EU membership, business in free zones is more attractive for users of areas operating with third countries and also given the share of trade that the Republic of Croatia has with other EU Member States. The use of these zones should be seen in the context of other opportunities they provide, stressing the benefits for the current and future users of the areas stemming from the Investment Encouragement Act, in particular those for investors interested in operating with third countries and corresponding to the geographical location and transport infrastructure of Croatia. I would also like to say that I would like to point out that I am talking about all those forms of support infrastructure such as development agencies, entrepreneurship centres, business incubators, accelerators, business parks, etc., within free zones. Finally, they would like to point out that in April of this year, the tender for the development of infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones is open in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, with a total value of 76 million kuna, and at the end of June we opened a tender for the provision of services for small and medium-sized enterprises through corporate support institutions worth 22.8 million kuna. Finally, free zones should, on the one hand, be seen in the economic interest of users of free zones operating with third countries themselves, and on the other hand, as I said in the context of the opportunities available precisely in the direction of entrepreneurship infrastructure in terms of the promotion law. I thank you for your attention in this late hour or early hour and we suggest that we discuss and adopt the same report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46960	I thank the Secretary of State, Mrs. Natasha Mikush Zigman, for this explanation. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. During the debate on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, distinguished colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's not present. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I don't think there's much to talk about the roles and potentials of free zones in the Republic of Croatia. We understand that free zones are oriented towards exports, to production, etc. But what I want to share with you a few thoughts is whether we use it enough and what the exact sum of incorrect statistics says about it. In the year in question, one zone is smaller, so compared to last year, one zone no longer works, which is the one in Slavonski Brod. Free zones lost 109,9 million kuna in business, unlike the modest plus last year. Exports to the EU or EU countries are 5% less than in 2014, concession fees are 5% lower than 2014. The total number of users of free zones is 4.2% lower, the number of workers is 1.1% lower. Out of a total of 7 million 443 thousand 567 square meters of the total area of free zones, 4 million 36 thousand 773 square meters are freely used. Does that sound like exploited potential to you? I don't think so. Of course, we bear in mind that we are talking about 2015 when Croatia has just begun to emerge from the economic crisis. What a real result we will see only in the 2016 and 2017 report. But in spite of all this, can we ultimately be content? The fact that we are discussing this in this late hour is enough proof of how much we care about this home or us about this topic that is extremely important for the Croatian economy, especially for the exporters. This report is just a set of information about the fact that it is, we don't have anything to argue about, so we're going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46962	I thank my colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS esteemed colleague Krešo Beljak. He's not present. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent HSU Representatives, distinguished colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. She's not present. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46963	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, I won't mention all this data, of course we're talking about 2015 when we had 137 users of it 136 small ones one big one from the Varazdin zone. What I want to mention here is that in 2016 it happened to us so that we're about to leave this Varazdin economic zone. In fact, by orientation of EU entry, what the secretary of state mentioned are free zones that are oriented towards non-European markets will continue to work. This is where you should look at your potential, and I think that just before the end of 2016 the government made a decision, allowing however, the Free Zone of Varazdin to come out of those systems, which was the largest with 4.5 thousand employees of these 7700 employed, which had 2.8 billion exports of 3.8 as much as we could have noticed here. The reasons for this are why we are asking that there are no more economic reasons to do business in the free zone regime because of the reduction of benefits. It also points out the right to use the upper limit of the allowable tax exemption on profits and since they are owners of less than most users and owners of that land, that part has also been approved. Therefore, I must absolutely focus on these areas, which are in the areas of the port, it is not a problem that they have only 10% of all their exports to European countries, the rest and work in non-European countries. We have to keep these landlanders that are left, and then I think of the Free Zone Osijek, which unfortunately had one dispute with the country that lost, I don't know what reason they've been stubborn, so they didn't want to pay the concession, of course that's over a million kunas, and that's where we need to look for ways to improve and focus as much economic growth as possible in the area of trade with non-European countries. As we had here in this home, we heard that our balance is negative, and now with Serbia maybe in this way a little bit to look at our neighbouring countries, and then on. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46964	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Curai. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Gordan Maras. He's not present. Final word? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I thank the esteemed Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman for his further reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-13-0.u46965	Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2015. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia is accepted in 2015. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 118 are for, 11 abstentions and 1 vote against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee. Honorable MPs, esteemed MPs good morning. We continue with the work of our session. I see some already applied for the breaks before the session began. A colleague of Glasnović, for example. Come on, fellow Alexic, please. Let's take it in a row.
