ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24697	Good morning. Here I see, as usual, we'll have a break again. First came the distinguished representative BEUS Richembergh. At least you're bigger, but he answered first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24698	Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, I am looking for a break so that we can look back on the Croatian government's attitude towards top scientists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24699	Thank you. Here's the esteemed representative of the Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24700	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP advocates' club is seeking a break because of the relationship between individual members of the government according to the words presented by the law by the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia because they are putting him in an extremely uncomfortable situation with their behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24701	Thank you. The next distinguished representative of Marin Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24702	Thank you, Vice President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia, topic of the regional trade agreement CETA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24703	Sorry, we haven't heard the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24704	The topic is a regional trade agreement on the free trade of CETA, which is now being voted in the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24705	Thank you. Honorable representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24706	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club, I'm looking for a ten-minute break to discuss illegalities at the State Deposit Insurance Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24707	Thank you. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24708	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. And the HDZ Club is looking for a break on the same subject as Mr. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24709	Thank you very much. Any other clubs? No, I don't. Thank you. I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, the first representative, Goran Beus Richembergh, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24711	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired requested a break to point out the totally unacceptable attitude of the Croatian Government towards top scientists, experts and to encourage the latest case of the defamation and demeaning of a gesture made by Professor Ivan Đikci, one of the most respected if not the most respected Croatian scientist working abroad and who until yesterday worked and Croatia because the consequences of such bagatelisation, such a relationship with the desire to help the Homeland can be very, very serious. The consequences can be seen now but are definitely reflected in the overall picture if you want the reputation of the Republic of Croatia in the world, in the scientific circles of its relationship with science, knowledge, excellence, the development of a critical mind. So, unfortunately, we oppose the tolerance of mediocrity, mediocrity, the desire to be a society that stagnates and not what progresses. We do not have thousands and thousands of scientists and experts who live abroad who want to actively help the Republic of Croatia, their homeland with those branches of activities they are dealing with but also in general social terms in strengthening its, on the one hand, scientific, economic, political integrity and then its future and reputation. We've got dozens of them, but what are we doing? What we do to keep a link to them, to listen to what their experience and knowledge says, comparatively stacked, stacked, paved, for tens of years, tens of projects, so if you want a tenth of the prizes they've earned. This government that we of the CNS call the Titanic Government, indeed, despite all warnings, goes from santa to santa. So whatever we catch ourselves and whatever we can talk about, we actually see that it doesn't pay attention to warnings or well-intentioned criticism or suggestions, but it goes one way that doesn't have much to do with logic, so it would say a common sense policy that should be right and should promote every government and this one. Unfortunately, the case in which Professor Djikic openly announced that he had interrupted his scientific work in Croatia, a scientific paper in which he invested his own money to help the University of Split develop as a centre of excellence and as a space for recruiting new young scientists who should open a window of new research and new successes. So the gesture was welcomed by the prime minister with one scrawny comment that he is not guilty, that this is a free country, that he is sorry about it, but that this is a free country that can leave whoever he wants, whoever's not well here. Yes, we have entered the European Union to feel Europe's grace without borders and freedom of movement of people, capital, but not in this sense to drive people away, but to attract them. What is this message to young people in Croatia and tens of thousands are leaving? It is a message here there is no room for you if you want to critically think, actively participate, look for your place under the sun and demand to allow you conditions for work and life. This government has declared that it will do everything, if you remember in the election campaign it has been said that one of the key problems that this government will face is the outflow of people from Croatia, the outflows of young people, that in all possible ways and all policies will try to stop them from leaving especially those who are worth it because they have further education because they have invested half their lives in education because they believe they have a chance here, and they have no chances. After we have instructed the most prominent Croatian scientist to go wherever he wants if he is not well here, none of these young people will ever consider this government to be well-intentioned and the one who builds his future. Unfortunately, moving trends will get worse and we do well to ask what we are doing and what kind of messages we are sending. We in HNS and HSU strongly protest such a government policy and demand a different attitude towards science and excellence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24712	Thank you. The next is the SDP club on behalf of which the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24713	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear counterpart Beus pointed out before me a serious problem of the credibility of the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding relations with science. If that were the only problem in this country, I would be happy because it is a problem that can be easily solved by one decision, by a decision concerning a minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia, but we have seen how the vote on the issue has passed last week. However, I will talk about another issue of credibility and concerns the conduct of the minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia, especially one of the vice presidents who, by his actions, is at risk of questioning the credibility and authority of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. I see a lot of you are wondering which way it is, so I'll explain it. Four months ago, on the day of the Croatian Parliament's establishment from this place, the MP, and today the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, spoke of the Law on Government, said: "The question of the position of advisers who will be appointed is being kept safe from the civil servants' order, and the rules on employment and the rights and obligations of civil servants will apply to them. The intensities of this amendment to the law are professionalization and depolitisation of the state service. That's what the future prime minister said. He added that the number of state officials would be reduced, so we introduced state secretaries instead of deputy ministers and increased them. But in these four months, certain changes have come to question whether the Prime Minister has any authority over the ministers. As we have been able to read in the papers in recent days, and we can do so today, ministers have spread out. Each of them takes a few counselors, each. Do these advisors come from the civil servants' order as announced by the prime minister? No, I don't. These advisers generally come from not because of their expertise but because certain political prices have to be paid. And what example is the worst? Of course, that foreign minister and European integration of the Republic of Croatia, that vice-president of Mr Stier's. It is about the appointment of Mr Ilčić, beware of Mr Ilčić, an expert in foreign affairs and European integration. A civil servant? No, I don't. The employees of a public institution who will receive, in addition to their regular salary in that public institution, a fee for a special advisor, and based on the information publicly available, the receipt of a total, monthly Mr Ilčić, will be in the ranks of those vice-presidents he advises, far greater than the receipt of a parliamentary representative who had while sitting in these benches. However, the employment of Mr Ilcic as an adviser at the foreign ministry has an additional, special connotation. The foreign ministry represents the Republic of Croatia both within the EU and when the minister represents his country at bilateral meetings, for example when he travels to Kuwait, for example when he travels to Qatar, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. And what does his counselor say? So his adviser, for example, speaks of the fact that Croatia was to be fenced with barbed wire because Muslims and Croats differ. His adviser, the foreign minister’s adviser, believes that Muslim members of Islam do not have the same working habits as Croat Christians. The minister or adviser to the foreign minister says that when a man comes home from work, he should read the newspaper, and the woman should serve. He continues to say that homophobic attitudes in the curiculum are not foreign to him and that he has no problem with them. As opposition advocates, we cannot influence whom the ruling one will appoint as his advisers. But we can point to that. We also point out today that you have greatly violated the reputation of the Republic of Croatia by your actions. We have a situation with Mr. Djikic, we have Mr. Barisic on the cover and on the pages of international scientific magazines, and now this. Please stop doing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24714	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the one "Let's Change Croatia" in the name of which the distinguished representative Marin Škibola will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24715	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The topic I'm going to talk about today is the regional trade agreement CETA. It is a free trade agreement between the EU and Canada, and regarding the agreement I had last week and a press conference. The agreement is very important in the EU, however, the issue is raised, a fundamental question why there is no interest in the media themselves in the agreement. Why did the European Parliament’s representatives not mention this agreement at all, i.e. They did not inform the Croatian public enough. After my press conference, the European Parliament's Information Office in the Republic of Croatia appears to have denied my statements and lists five links on the Internet that the Croatian public is informed about this agreement on the free trade in CETA. But if we don't inform the public what democracy it is when people don't have information whether they can come to some constructive decisions and conclusions. I can't. So that's the deficit of democracy that appears in the EU. What is important to say is that not only do Croatian citizens not only know what CETA is but also doesn't know a good part of the MPs who are CETA. And the important problem is that Croatian universities haven't made a study at all, so they haven't produced a cost benefit analysis to see how much Croatia will actually benefit from this trade agreement. But there's another story in Canada. The Canadian Council Institute has done research. It is a study conducted by researchers from Canadian universities, who claim that the comprehensive economic trade agreement of CETA will lead to not only economic losses but also increases in unemployment and inequality. According to the authors of the study, the macroeconomic consequences of the planned trade agreement between Canada and the EU are significant, and these include weaker economic growth, job losses, wage cuts and tax revenues. One of their conclusions is that by 2023 the CETA contract will lead to a loss of about 230 thousand jobs mainly in the EU. In addition, trade within the Union is expected to be rerouted to the benefit of Germany, France and Italy and to the detriment of other Member States. It is important to say that the euro area peripheral countries and the EU will only deepen the problem of their non-competitiveness. The EU says the agreement will increase trade exchanges with Canada of 26 billion euros, and the European Commission has conducted a study to increase GDP growth in the EU to up to 0.08% of GDP. So these are negligible percentages given the sequences that CETA carries that I'm going to tell you about if I have time. It is important to say that today it is voted in the European Parliament on CETA, and the European Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in the European Parliament in 1.12.2016 suggested to MEPs in the European Parliament that they reject the CETA agreement because, in their opinion, there would be a loss of jobs and economic decomposition of society. There is also a system of investment courts, it should be part of all future trade agreements, so it's not just a CETA issue, there's a TTIP and instead of asking foreign investors to press charges at national courts first as citizens have to, the commission proposes that foreign investors choose between a national court or a system of investment courts. It is logical to assume that investors will choose a path on which they will have a better chance of getting to the most damage. So that's the story where corporations in these supranational courts sue the state if the state brings in that. bring some laws that are in favour of workers, not those corporations themselves. So we had an example of Argentina, which responded to the financial crisis in 2001, frozen electricity and water prices, and devalued the currency. Just one more moment, you get more than 40 lawsuits from international corporations, and she's convicted. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And in cases completed by 2008 at a total payment of $1.15 billion in damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24716	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the Living Wall, the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24717	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to talk briefly about illegalities at the State Savings Insurance Agency. In 2012, she was appointed Director Marija Hrebac, which is an agency on the list of companies and agencies of strategic interests for the Republic of Croatia. According to the comments of employees and media, the director created a bad, not professional and non-human atmosphere at work or in her agency, which caused a part of the employees to quit, e.g. Head of accounting, lawyer, etc., one part of them went to sick leave, and one part of them was fired, including the union commissioner and two maids prior to retirement. The union commissioner, although banned from his post, has been receiving an orderly salary for 14 months even though he is not doing anything. Under the Union Commissioner's Law, you can't even quit. For those under pressure and stress, the principal sent them an inspection to check on them, and she also threatened her own employees with lawyers. Among other things, the principal was convicted twice of conflict of interest, once because she was at the same time in the management bodies of the Croatian bank, she was once in the bodies of the administration in Sunny Hvar and, consequently, even temporarily wore the nickname of the queen of conflict of interest. Her role in the recovery of the Adriatic Bank was also questionable, and as we know about the Adriatic Bank, almost all of Dalmatia depends. While the director shares his resignations with his employees at the same time has a very high salary, these are official copies, and also from official cards of the State Savings Insurance Agency show the extremely high costs of the agency under the control of the state. So we can find out that they're spending and they're very large in the finest restaurants in Zagreb in the world's finest hotels, in Brussels, Vienna, Japan, France, Greece, Trinidad Tobago, Switzerland, London, the United States. And the price of one dinner at the Boban restaurant in Zagreb is 5,200 kuna. All of this is done by the director whose term of office expired in March 2016, so she has been doing her job in some way for a full-time period of 10 months as the performer of the activity. For all of these reasons, and given that the government has shown great urgency in the procession of Mr. Sauce, the head of the former Prime Minister's Office, I call on the Government and the Ministry of Finance as well as the Management Board of the Agency, where Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric, Grozdana Peric, chairman of the Committee on Finance, Darinko Kosor President HLSA to show consistency and to continue to clean up inappropriate costs on state spending. I also invite them to return to the work of the union commissioner, to return to work Mrs Natalija Hrmić and Jasna Djulic, the maids who were fired before retirement, to return these honest people to their jobs because it is not right for those two women to be fired and that their salaries for one single dinner at the Boban restaurant, the same director therefore eats at the state expense. And is it okay, then, that workers throw themselves on the street while that same agency buys Volvo as its official car? Are these the structural reforms that Governor Vujčić is talking about, to create one elite of half a population that all and 99.5% of Croatian workers and residents have nothing? Can confidence in the institution be strengthened on this occasion as your Prime Minister Plenkovic spoke, or will the Croatian government once again prove to me that the banks that are the true masters of Croatia are standing above it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24718	Thank you. And last in the name of the HDZ club will be the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24719	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Croatian Democratic Community club also asked for a break after his counterpart, Grbin, who spoke about advisers in the government of the Republic of Croatia. I held that Mr. Grbin as a lawyer distinguished the position of advisers in the government, both those advisers who came from the ranks of civil servants and those advisers who were named as special advisers by the Government Act. So it is not true that when the Prime Minister represented the Government and the Government Act, he claimed what Mr. Grbin said because in the Law, Article 23. The government law, which has just been presented by Mr. Prime Minister, says that a government official can be appointed as an adviser to the Prime Minister for the entire or certain duration of the term of office of the Prime Minister. A special adviser can also be appointed, a person who is not in a permanent working relationship with the Government, and the appointment solution can also provide for work compensation. Therefore, it is not true what Mr. Grbin said on behalf of the club that the Prime Minister spoke one thing and that he did the other because the Government Act is exactly the prescribed way which may be an adviser in the Government, both a statesman who is in a working relationship and another person who can be appointed for a certain time with or without compensation. Therefore, that fellow coat of arms is not true, and you made that up. Another thing that's amazing to me is that at the time of the SDP's affair here in the government, in the Parliament this way mentions advisers in the government. Namely, special advisers have been, in existence in the government since 2003, the government has foreseen the employment of special advisers and in this sense former Prime Minister Milanovic has been extremely active, he has had four special advisers while, say, Mr Plenkovic has one special adviser. And these four special advisers by Mr. Milanovic over the past year have written 40 cm of travel accounts more than Mr. Pajo Jara in trucks managed to purchase travel accounts in short time as special advisers to the Prime Minister. Otherwise, when we talk about special advisors or advisors, I'm surprised again that we're looking for a break on behalf of the club about advisors who advise the prime minister or individual minister. So I would like to mention, for example, that, for example, my colleague Maras had his advisor, and that in the person of the wife of the mayor of Sisak, Mr. Banjek, Mr. Jovanovic also had a special representative, including the fiancée or wife of our colleague Sasa Djujic. While they were in government. So what do I want to say on behalf of the HDZ Club? In order for it to be good when it is requested that the exact information based on the laws be provided, or if it comes to the implementation of that law, then it may be requested to take a break. In this way, when he tries to disqualify someone from the current ministers and the Prime Minister, then unfortunately for Mr. Pejo, the coat of arms things don't stand, so that's what I'm going to end up with. It is not true that when the Government Law was passed, it was that there would be no special advisers because that day, the law is also intended to appoint special advisers. I would also like to point out once again that Mr. Plenkovic has one adviser and other members of the government, especially vice-presidents of the government, may have special advisers just as provided for by the Government Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24720	Thank you very much. A colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24721	Injury is the Rules of Procedure that Mr. Bacic spoke incorrectly on behalf of the Club From 232. to 238 [[Intruder Reiner: Which article, please explain.]] There's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, [[Intruder Reiner: Never mind.]] To me, he was not an adviser to the gentleman mentioned by his colleague Bacic in his presentation. [[You're talking completely...]] That's all I wanted to say. My colleague Bacic spoke incorrectly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u24722	Comrade Maras abuse the Rules of Procedure, 232 speaks of a completely different matter which you have stated. Look, you've had enough time to read the Rules of Procedure, not abuse it. Of course I'm assessing there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I'm assessing that there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, so we'll move on to the agenda, as planned. The first item is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State aid, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 76; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31010	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. So before us are the amendments and additions to the State Aid Act as you believe you have had the opportunity to see changes and additions in a nomotechnical sense are not large and significant. The importance of these amendments and additions lies in the fact that they strengthen the transparency of the State aid system in terms of public publication of the State aid programme, individual State aid and de minimis support. This should certainly, in the second step, lead to the strengthening of the effectiveness of the State aid allocation system and the achievement of the purpose and objectives for which they are granted. Therefore, the 2014 State Aid Act, which changes these amendments and additions, are primarily governed by the competences of the relevant authorities in the Republic of Croatia in relation to matters relating to state aid, and until the limit when the competence with regard to state aid is passed on to EU bodies, primarily by the European Commission in line with the EU acquis. In particular, certain types of State aid if they meet the conditions laid down in Commission Regulation No 651 of 2014 are excluded from the obligation to report to the European Commission. Control of compliance with the conditions for State aid exemption from the application to the European Commission shall be carried out by the Ministry of Finance and shall issue an opinion on their compliance with the State aid rules and shall inform the European Commission of such assistance through a specific electronic system. For the other support countries, the decision to regulate it determines that the State aid in question is compatible with the principles of the internal market by the European Commission. Without a positive decision by the European Commission, the Member States of the European Union should not grant state support. The application procedure for state support to the European Commission is carried out by the Ministry of Finance also through a special electronic system. This Act amending and supplementing the State aid Act adds provisions on the transparency of state aid and complements existing provisions in the section relating to the State aid register. By communicating on the modernisation of state aid in the EU, the European Commission has started modernising the state aid system, inter alia, and for the reason that a number of key instruments for the granting of state aid are in place, as well as the preparation of the multiannual financial framework, and EU rules for structural funds for the period of fourteenth, 20th. In this communication, the European Commission highlighted three objectives of implementing the modernisation of state aid, which is reflected in promoting sustainable smart and inclusive growth in the competitive internal market, by directing ex-ante control of the European Commission on cases with the greatest impact on the internal market, and by strengthening cooperation with EU Member States in implementing state aid rules. Therefore, these amendments have made a significant part of the state aid for which, until then, the European Union, or the European Commission, had to give its previous consent to the Member States themselves. The third objective is to simplify the aid rules that allow for faster, more informed, more credible decision-making on the basis of clear economic justification, common approach and clear commitments. Transparency with regard to the granting of State aid is a key component of the above modernisation. Achieving transparency specifically relates to the obligation of the EU Member State to publish on the comprehensive State aid website data on programmes and individual state aids, individual State aids exceeding 500 000 euros, and other data prescribed by those specific rules for certain categories of aid. The existing State aid Act in Article 12, under the publication of the State aid programme, obliges state aid providers to publish a State aid programme on their website after the approval of the proposal for a State aid programme. In order to meet the conditions of transparency of state aid provided for in the abovementioned legal property of the EU, it is necessary to amend the title of Article 12 of the Law on State aid in place of the publication of the State support programme and individual State aid, while the same article is complemented by the provisions on which the website of the Ministry of Finance becomes a comprehensive network of pages on which data on programmes and individual State aids will be published, and in accordance with that legal property of the EU. The transparency promotes compatibility with State aid rules, reduces uncertainty, enables entrepreneurs to verify whether the support is granted to their competitors legally, and taxpayers will have insight into how state aid is granted. Amendment of Article 14 The State aid law is related to data delivery deadlines for the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, the delivery of data on the state aid granted and the aid of small value would no longer take place once a year but through the application of the relevant functions of the State aid register and small value support. This data delivery would occur de facto daily or continuously. It also determines the responsibility of the public support provider and the support of small value for the truthfulness of the data provided to the Ministry of Finance. As regards the State aid register, the existing State Aid Act in Article 15 provides that the Ministry of Finance shall maintain a register of State aid and support of small value on the basis of the data collected from the State aid providers and small value support. The obligation to provide data on the state aid granted and small-value support is laid down in Article 14. State aid laws. And with the basis of the data provided, the Ministry of Finance draws up the Annual Report on State aids and support of small value provided to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Register of State aid, other than the information on the state aid granted and the aid of small value under the amended EU rules, should contain data on programmes, individual state aid for which there is a obligation to report to the European Commission to which state support providers provide to the Ministry of Finance under Article 8. State aid law and data on programmes and individual State aids exempt from the obligation to report to the European Commission and provided by state support providers to the Ministry of Finance pursuant to Article 9. State aid laws. Therefore, this Act amending and supplementing the State aid Act is complemented by the existing Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The State aid law in such a way as to indicate that the State aid register contains, in addition to the information on the aid granted and the support of small value, data on programmes and individual State aids for which there is an obligation to report to the European Commission, data on individual State aid schemes for which there is an exemption from the obligation to report to the European Commission, and other information necessary for the implementation of the State aid system. The finance ministry has established the Register of State Support as an online application that has been operational since 1 January of this year. The register is public and will be made publicly available to all who increase the transparency of the state aid granted. The amendments and amendments to the law shall also be subject to the adoption of the State aid Regulation by 1 July 2017. The Regulation will set out in detail the delivery procedure itself and the content of the information on the State aid granted, and the specific forms according to the types of aid granted to State aid providers to supply to the Ministry of Finance or to enter into the Register of Support. These amendments and additions to the State aid Act are in the direction of strengthening the transparency of the allocation and the State aid granted, which is certainly an additional step towards strengthening the efficiency of the allocation and spending of public resources on beneficiaries of state aid. The law goes in two readings, which is certainly an opportunity for possible improvements and improvements of the law itself according to your suggestions and possible suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31011	Thank you very much. They want the committee's reporters. I'm sorry, we have replicas. Honorable representative Miro Bulj had his first line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31012	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. You said it was the EU. The European Commission has controlled support that must not be selective to certain branches, however this is the fact that it is a lie. When the biggest crisis was Germany subsidized its auto-industry i.e. It has given huge state support of course not to fail, and our shipbuilding because of this European Commission has not subsidized our policy and today we have our shipbuilding in the situation of the Split Square as we have. And as far as the register is concerned, it's only good to get that register out, but only from now on would it be much better to put in the second reading the register of all those who got the support, where they spent it. Because the fact that only the orchards were supported in agriculture was that the whole of Croatia was supposed to be an orchard. Like what? indicate how much support he has received, for example. Agrokor or Atlantic or anyone else to see that register, and not now that the shipbuilding has failed, we subsidize the Div in the Split Square, and we don't have a register as much as it has been subsidized to date. I would ask you to know that you are introducing the register also to make it possible for the register to be of state support this year because of the renewable energy in this year due to the law given to Zoran Milanovic, the government needs from the budget 1.1 billion kuna from the state budget or the citizens of our pay. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1.5 billion kuna, and in 2019 1.6 billion kuna market support three times more expensive support. 25 lipa is per kilowatt on the market, and the wind support is 0.90 lipa. It's a crime that should be recorded in the register, I'd like to ask you if you can also register So far the support that's been criminal. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31013	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Peja Grbin, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And in advance, I apologize if I might get out of the Rules of Procedure's breach, but I believe I won't. Therefore, Article 238 of the Treaty on the It is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure that a representative should not deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. One of the general rules of conduct is the obligation to tell the truth. Mr. Bull doesn't keep telling the truth, and this is one of those situations. To say that the Republic of Croatia does not provide support for shipbuilding is notorous untrue. As we all know from 2008 to 2012, which means we are covering two governments, the support of shipbuilding amounted to 14.4 billion kuna. Following this, the support shall continue in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 with the European Commission’s approval. When you say that these support doesn't have you telling the notorna not the truth, and what else you're doing, I won't even say it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31015	Thank you. You yourself are at the beginning that you are aware that it is not that it is coming out of the domain of the breach of the Rules of Procedure because if I responded to everything the MPs say incorrectly, we would probably do nothing else but hurt the Rules of Procedure. There are a lot of things that go a little too far, which are said incorrectly in enthusiasm, etc. Dear Representative Miro Bulj has also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31016	The Rules of Procedure were injured in Article 38 is a fellow representative 238. Pardon me, fellow Parliamentarian Pedja Grbin said that I am not telling the truth, i.e. That I'm lying. [[Renier: 38?]] However, he cannot claim that I am lying but when he confirms whether the Croatian state is when he confirms the fact that the Croatian state has subsidized the Shkver, i.e. Shipbuilding in the amounts needed at that time or under the pressure of the European Commission not to, then I will apologize. But the fact is that he accused me of lying, and you're bound to warn a colleague of the coat of arms, Mr. Chairman that he's not telling the truth. And certainly as you subsidized now is the actual state of shipbuilding as the best industrial branch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31017	Okay. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either, and I told my colleagues that he'd gone too far, and I'm afraid that's what happened to you, too. I ask you all not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. These were actually replicas and one and the other, use the situation to replicate when the time is right. But now he will respond to the replica of the respected Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is only a propo support for shipbuilding, so from the state budget 622 million kuna of shipbuilding support was paid in 2013, in '14 and in '15, 687 million kuna of shipbuilding support. So I would not agree that the shipbuilding in this procedure has been suspended. And if I may add how many opportunities I've had to see in the papers these days that shipyards are full of contracts and that, it's worth a billion dollars and $400 million of contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31019	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31020	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is good that Croatia has left and is increasingly leaving sectoral support and is moving towards horizontal support but it is also good that we have not cut across the night and that, for example, we have given shipbuilding the opportunity to restructure and in 2012, in the '13th, '14th, and in the 15th and '16th, to get support from the state to become market-oriented and to be more competitive in certain jobs, this is especially seen in the shipbuilding sites that are contracting, orders that are full. And I hope that some MPs in this house don't look with nostalgia at those times when support was given by hand and hat, people paid billions of kuna for losers and when we were de facto producing ships with state aid and eventually defacto paying someone through those support to buy those ships because they weren't competitive on the market. And that's the difference between the access of some nostalgia representatives who look at these money leaving Croatian citizens, from the pockets of Croatian citizens, most often not productive I would tell shipyards and many privates who have made themselves rich through these shipyards and these support that we have given to restructure the shipyards and become more efficient. What bothers me a little bit more than anything is the impact that because of the lack of the Energy Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have an increase in the price of electricity. Until yesterday, we heard about the electricity being cheap and here we heard yesterday from the minister that she would collect 4, 5 and 6%. So two months ago, the Prime Minister was saying that the power will be cheap and today we hear that he will collect and it will have a much greater negative impact on these shipyards that Mr. Bulj was talking about than what would possibly have lost some support. So we're going to defacto our industry by not finding people in the energy sector who are now running those policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31021	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31022	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. We at the club MOST Independent Lists support such a bill that leads to transparency in spending money intended for state support. However, we wonder why such a law is now being passed, whether it was necessary to enter the European Union so that we should report to our citizens how state money is being spent. So this country has existed for 27 years and has not been able to make a register of state aid granting and publicly announce it to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, I support a fellow Bull who asked for something like that to be made to see where all this money, all these 27 years, has been spent. And his criticism about support for shipbuilding was about the time when Croatian shipbuilding was in the biggest crisis, then we were not allowed to help that shipbuilding. And today, when that shipbuilding is on its knees, huge funds of state support are being allocated and I'm not sure, and time will show how these funds are being spent at all. And time will show and believe there is a lot of everything, a lot of crimes and very soon it will come out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31023	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I can't see. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club will speak to the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31024	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the Law on State aids which, therefore, already existing law intends to make it more transparent. And then, as one of the consequences of these changes, it comes to the fact that data from individual state aids will be published on the website of the Ministry of Finance. However, given that most citizens do not know exactly what this is about, it is worth repeating and all in explaining the whole of which is called European legislation because this law has come to us from the European Union, the proposal to amend the law. I would therefore like to refer to this sentence, which explains that EU member states must not grant state support without the approval of the European Commission. This specifically means that by adopting this law as well as by joining the EU, Croatia has given up part of its sovereignty and I would now like to say briefly in which way. So first of all, that's support? Supports are subsidies, i.e. grants, preferential interest, tax exemptions, debt waivers, equity shares, financial transfers and guarantees. So the State must not grant support without the approval of the European Commission except for very small amounts. But even on these small amounts, the state has to keep records. Now listen to what we need to get the European Commission's approval so we can give state support. We need to get approval from the European Commission, among other things, for state support for research and development. We need to get approval for the training support. We need to get permission to support the employment of workers in an unfavourable position, to hire people with disabilities in the form of pay subsidies. To support aid for the provision of unfavourable workers, for environmental protection, for energy efficiency, for broadband infrastructure, for investment in culture and heritage, for sports and multi-purpose infrastructures, for local infrastructure, for audiovisual works. So for movies, for music, etc. Nothing we as the Croatian State can support without prior authorisation from the European Commission. And now, if by any chance the Croatian State gives support without the consent of the European Commission, then those funds will have to be returned to the state budget, but not as a principal but as interest, with the possibility of a lawsuit and compensation for damages. And which means that state support in one part of Croatia's company and company will cause executions, blockades, layoffs, and maybe even closures of companies. So if we don't believe this, we can throw our eye out again at the neighbors and study the case of the Elan factory, a ski factory in Slovenia that came into an extremely unfavourable position because it received state support. From their own state, Slovenian citizens receive support and therefore threaten to destroy them on the market. I want the Croatian citizens, because I know the MPs won't understand me. If they understand me, they will not do anything to understand, that by joining the EU, among other things, through this law, Croatia has lost at least one part of its sovereignty. I'd like to caricate if I may. It'd be like I buy my son a bike and then somebody tells me, don't put him back in the store, you can't do it. Am I a free person? Am I a complete person? Can I say that I rule my life? If so, the European Commission, who are these people, tell me what they're called? Is that the 30, 40 people mentioned by the prime minister who decides everything? It decides whether we give money for sports and culture and the preservation of heritage. So what does he know about Croatian heritage so he can decide. I don't know. I do not understand how this law is as a whole good for Croatia. And if this law isn't good, I don't care what website he's on right now. This is good what Mr. Kristic said. We were 27 years old. We could have solved that question ourselves. But I don't care which web page, that's not the point. So it could be on a web site that you want the Ministry or I don't know the Office of State when the law is in its own right, so it's wrong. For this reason, we are discussing here the implementation of a law which is not in the interest of Croatian citizens and which is therefore adopted after the entry into the EU which took place in a referendum that we know was from the Living Wall, we cannot accept not because it is transparent, non-transparent but for the simple reason that this law, therefore takes part of Croatian sovereignty and in the long term, opens the door to even greater subordination and even greater slavery, therefore, the humiliation that Croatia must endure from day to day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31025	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. She's the first one to be Marina Scybola's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31026	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Well, Mr. Bunjac, I would refer to that thought when you said that Croatia is losing its sovereignty, and that is closely related to state support. Why is it about state support? Because in the free market economic system, it seeks to limit any state intervention, and there are four freedoms in the EU. One of those four freedoms is the same freedom of movement of capital. This means that capital takes over everything, and the role of the state in economic processes is reduced. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31027	The answer of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31028	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Scybola, you are essentially an economist, which is important, so you essentially summed up this whole problem in a few sentences and the point is that in the long run we can give up not only our own identity but we must give up our own countries in the long run. And so this is just the beginning. One who has read, say, the books of Max Webber hundreds of years ago and many years ago has seen that every pores of human life will be extremely bureaucratic which is already in itself bad, and it is particularly bad when this bureaucracy will be inaccessible to us, unknown, beyond the reach of our laws, and if you want to go beyond the reach of our eyes and other senses. The question is what laws will be implemented in Croatia in 10 or 15 years following this law. Are we going to ask the permission of the European Commission I don't know how to buy agricultural land, buy a house, buy a car, ask for the European Commission's permission to build kindergartens, sports halls, if we're going to ask for the permission of the European Commission I don't know how to drink water because this is how it's going now, it's clear here the other day Mr. Shakespeare was saying it's a new kind of sovereignty. Well, here I would like to be softly explained to me by some new kind of sovereignty, maybe someone will say that we from the Living Wall are old-fashioned, but we believe we have the right to be sovereign. We have been here for 1400 years, many victims have fallen for the Republic of Croatia and there is no reason for us to give up our sovereignty as easily as in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31029	Thank you. Dear Representative Miro Bulj has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31030	Comrade Bunjac, I absolutely agree that state support is this way controlled from the centre of power and, of course, control how the Croatian state develops and surely there is a loss of sovereignty. The loss of sovereignty I will repeat what I repeated when the biggest crisis in 2008 was when the auto-industry in Germany was financed, in huge losses, but Germany financed huge amounts subsidized state aid to survive the auto-industry. Until this was done in Croatian shipbuilding at the time, now that someone privatised the shipbuilding then the Secretary of State speaks in 2014 and 2015, support that when the shipbuilding was destroyed, when the shipyard was destroyed, when the workers were destroyed, when the infrastructure of the welder, human potential and subsidisation was destroyed in a way that is controlled by the Croatian state interests me. Here you can answer me, Mr. Mud. Five billion kunas in the last five, six years have been given in dairy production, and we have 64 thousand dairy producers, and today we have 4,600, 5 billion kuna. Are you going to publish the 5 billion kuna register they got? Will you publish a register of all those who have been given fruit incentives, billions? Are you going to publish Agrokor? Agrokor's in trouble right now. Foreign banks can send us state owners. You want to publish the register, all I'm interested in is whether to publish a register of billions and billions of incentives to the team that destroyed our producers as suppliers, and later they got huge money and state support. It's a key problem, not that these tycoons make fun of the poor at cashiers who don't have two thousand kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31031	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31032	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, that you have said one interesting fact, which is that law enforcement in all EU countries is not the same. So Croatia must implement European Commission decisions, but some other countries do not have to. And here we see this one fundamental imbalance where the rules are not the same for everyone. Let's say one case, the European Commission has prescribed a deficit for France, and France has said it is none of our business, so it is none of their business that the European Commission has prescribed a deficit for them and they have had a deficit as they themselves wanted. but on the other hand, Croatia is not in a position to say the provisions of the European Commission are not of any concern to us. Of course, France, Germany and some other countries can say old members or we can say stronger economies here are in a privileged position, but we cannot agree to this because the EU should be a community of equal peoples. Nothing has cost Croatia more than this subordination that we have had for centuries and in Austria, Yugoslavia and partly under the Ottoman Empire, today under Brussels, so we are constantly in a subordinate position and through this legislation we want to impose a stronger right. They'd say our people, who's stronger than that, but we don't have to agree to that. So I repeat once again, we have tradition, we have our institutions, we have our own infrastructure, we have our own people who have owed a lot of things not only Europe but all of humanity, and there's no need to be ruled by some people we don't have a name or name so that they have the right to declare themselves more capable and smarter than us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31033	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I fully respect your opinion and with nothing you've said, I don't agree. So, I answered the line on two things, you said that the law is not in the citizens' interest and that we don't care what website the support data is published on. And I'm going to tell you that I care very much about which page they publish and if they are even published, that I care very much about the criteria of support being granted and that I care very much about who gets these support. And that's what I'm saying from experience practice because in this assembly at the time of the government of Zoran Milanovic, I often intervened and protested over what money was being shared, support was shared, and there were no criteria and no data could be obtained. I'm speaking specifically. I can make it very specific to the details. And that's why it's absolutely important for me to have data in one place and to know by which criteria it's assigned. You were talking about the relationship between Croatia and the European Union and I will say it like this. For example, my little town of the Cross, just on a concrete example. Therefore, the European Union’s funds can be used in a very good way, and Croatia’s membership in the European Union can be used. But let's look at the little one first. Did we make enough to take advantage of it? Some are, some aren't. I run the city that used it, it'll use more. We took much more advantage of European funds than we could have used during the previous few years of state aid. So there are possibilities and it's not all as black as you're showing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31035	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31036	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I appreciate your opinion, but in this case, I'm more of my own. In principle, you are right to see that state support should be made public. They should indeed be made public, but only when the previous step on the matter will be taken, and that is who decides on state aid. It means that a far more important question is who decides than which website will be published. Because if we don't decide, then it's basically a secondary question of how these decisions are going to be published. As regards these support for the famous which Croatia is receiving from the European Union, it should be said that Croatia is also paying for its EU contribution. As far as I know, we give about 4 billion kuna a year in the EU. Some signs indicate that we were returning at a certain age, perhaps less than we had paid for it. It is a pity that Croatia has 4 billion kunas to give to the European Union, which then returns it to us through madly regulated projects, while there are no 400 million kunas to pay for school lunch in schools. So all the kids in the schools would eat free lunch if the state gave 400 million kuna. And that is certainly what Croatian citizens with the right to be angry that we are giving to the European Union and I repeat to us they return it to the same but not in a way that we decide but in a way that they decide and they decide what matters to them and not what matters to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31037	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31038	Thank you very much. My colleague Bunjac, I have listened carefully and this debate of yours, most of it goes in the direction of this country, but let's not change anything, so let's just stand there because that's what I think of you as a Living Wall, we're doing well, and we just need to continue in the same way, so we support the barn that was bad. Why do I say that? Let's remember the fifth month of last year. It is precisely the European Union that informs us that a number of irregularities have been launched in one competition at the Ministry of Agriculture which are stepping up the disbursement of the 2.2 billion kuna incentive at that time. 400 companies run out of incentives. What do they notice? They note that companies established a few months before the tender, knowing that these companies are at the same addresses, have the same contact as individuals, almost all the same names. And now we're changing the law where we want to change certain rules and show clear transparency in everything and you say nothing to touch, so it's good, which we would give up on some, let's just as you called it sovereignty because here's what's good for us and what you're going to tell us what we're going to do. I think that the benefit that we receive, by entering the European Union, and it is visible in the budget if we are paying 3.5 billion and we want to withdraw 7.8 or more, depends on our ability to just clear the rules and transparency are the greatest fort in all of this. And I don't know what it's supposed to be against all the time, and the Priory of something if we go with a law that introduces more order and rules exactly what we all question and that's being supported. Whether small values or higher values I think you're on the wrong track, and I think you'd be better off supporting this to lose some of your options then because you're in an illogical relationship, but let's not change anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31039	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31040	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric, you say we're changing. We don't change, this is the law that came from the European Union, we confirm. This law on the publication of network support data is a policy of a snail step that will change things for the better in one 100 years when none of us here in the assembly are alive. Croatian citizens need fast and concrete reforms, they are waiting for them, I would dare say for decades and we have on the agenda of this Assembly since the constitutional session some issues such as the judicial authority, the state's attorney's office, the FINA, the CNB, the HRT and some other things but they keep moving on the agenda because there are always some EU laws that have been published, now there will be 71 that are urgent, which are first in line. And I guarantee you this issue of Croatian citizens is de facto of no interest. So they're not interested in state support because I doubt most of them made it. On the other hand, they are interested in resolving existential issues. And we with these and these laws that come to Parliament, I don't know how the lives of Croatian citizens increased, improved after we passed all these laws, in which one article changes, two words don't know any additions to the law of a few sentences. This in any case creates an illusion that something is happening, and in everyday life, when we meet reality, we see that in fact there are no significant changes, but as many citizens believe, and you have it according to official statistics that this government leads the country in the wrong direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31041	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Grodana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31042	Dear counterpart Bunjac, I think you have a phobia, a phobia in relation to Europe and the EU which is not good, and it is not good because little you know. Namely from the practice from which I come units of local self-government and we have been reporting all the aid granted. What does that mean? These are small support, small values up to 200 thousand euros that we are and we will always be able to freely assign regardless of whether we are in a larger system or not. Therefore, there is absolutely no speech about our freedom, about how we will influence and where we will direct than we need to determine the fact that in the last year we have more withdrawn EU funds, so someone else's funds compared to what we have paid. Therefore, if we are responsible for someone's income, we must also respond and the rules of conduct must be known both for us and for all other EU members. Therefore, what we are allocating from the local budget because you need to know that there are sectoral ones, there are horizontal support, etc., that, for example, in sectoral support, more than 4 billion kunas were allocated in 2014, and that in horizontal ones, these are low levels over a billion and 400 thousand. So let's not confuse the concepts, and we have to say what I mean, we've always had to report what we've given and how we've assigned. Therefore, a priority should not condemn this now that the values of over 500 thousand euros are regulated, that this is now a reduction of our freedoms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31043	And the answer of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31044	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Peric, I have no phobia from Europe, nor do we have such a phobia in the Living Wall. We were a part of Europe always culturally, we were part of both renaissance and Gothic and historicalism and secession. So we don't have to prove that we are Europe, but we are concerned about some things like participating in a war in Syria on the EU order that gave up the $23 billion Hayan field. We are concerned about yesterday's announcement by Russia that it will completely block Croatian imports of agricultural products also by order, so the EU. These are things that are done against the interests of the citizens of Europe. Because if you allow, Russia is at least according to the geographical map part of Europe, and it does not necessarily have to be part of the EU. As far as this law is concerned, he may not be too radical right now, but one day he will become. Because it is known that EU and US policies are going towards gradual pressure. They will not limit the freedoms of the law in one year, but in a process that will last 10, 20 and 30 years I guarantee you that this legislation will be increasingly stricter, more rigorous and more bureaucratic. In this regard, given some historical experiences, we have the right to doubt that Croatia will therefore regret not only some past times, but even regret this day which is definitely not a globally good day. Croatia seems to follow the policy of the letter "b". We had Budapest, we had Vienna, we had Berlin, we had Belgrade, now we have Brussels and Buzin. I think it would be time for us to finally turn to ourselves once and lead our policies in Zagreb, Split, Osijek, Rijeka and all other Croatian cities and environments. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31045	Thank you very much. Now the word will be given to the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed parliamentary representatives. So, first of all, I would like to say that this State aid Act is not a regulation that defines the types of state aid granted to, to which they are granted, the amounts to be granted, the intensity of the support granted, etc. This is a law defining the authority's competence in the Republic of Croatia during and for granting state support. So this is not a regulation that defines what, how much and in which amounts will be allocated. The second thing, I said in the opening address that for certain types of support is the Member State and the Member State is the one that decides on the programmes it will allocate in its space. This competence concerns the common exemption regulation. So, all that is covered by the Common Exemption Regulation, which is exactly the kind of support that Mr. Bunjac reads, regional support, support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, support for research and development, innovation, support for training, support for the employment of unfavourable workers and disabled workers etc. etc. Therefore, for those State aids granted under the Common Exemption Regulation, the Member State is competent, i.e. the Republic of Croatia. State aid providers, which are mostly different ministries or other bodies, prepare state support programmes in accordance with the regulations, send them to the Ministry of Finance for consent and give the Ministry of Finance consent to the programme. It is mandatory to inform the European Commission. Therefore, the European Commission does not decide on these support but decides exactly the Republic of Croatia, but reports to the European Commission. Generally looking at the measures in the EU, it applies and is granted in accordance with the Common Exemption Regulation, or around 2/3 of the allocations, exactly in accordance with the Common Exclusion Regulation. Therefore, the maximum number of aid granted by Member States is granted exactly in accordance with this Regulation and are themselves responsible for granting State aid. What most often requires consent, i.e. The most common support for which the consent of the European Commission must be sought is the various support for the restructuring and rehabilitation of undertakings in difficulty, in the case of the allocation of significant amounts of State guarantees or of some other support which do not fall under the Common Exemption Regulation. So here I wanted to point out that it is not true that every detail must be asked for the consent of the European Commission, but it is the Republic that decides what amounts, for which needs it will grant state support. And the register is there to increase transparency in the allocation of these aids and, consequently, the effectiveness of the State aid granted. And what I want to stress is that the register is also new at EU level. So far programmes and support have been allocated to publish and publish on the website of the public support bodies. Now registers are being introduced, and according to our findings, the Republic of Croatia is one of the first to make the register and put it into office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31047	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31048	Dear Secretary, you have now explained one piece in essence in the end again the European Commission will need to approve all our proposals for our funds, our plans, i.e. The funds and the support we give. Can you tell me if the register published retro will have any reports of its own? At least support in agriculture that we know? Agriculture. Don't even mention names is it embarrassing to you obviously not to you, but you're not here right now, are you? Let's say some people will mention who were billionaires now will destroy our entire economy and our country goes into foreign banks in their hands. Is there a possibility that retro, meaning back 15 years ago to see who was getting these incentives, is there that possibility? Do we have an archive? If billions have gone we don't know where. So only five billion in the last five, six years went to the dairy industry. Where are the cows, where's the cattle, where are the people these cattlemen? Can someone explain it to this people where this money is and why we now have 4,000 dairy producers, we've given five billion support to 64 thousand dairy producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31049	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31050	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you said that this law will not define the things that every ministry and every body that it supports must define, but I hope very much, and I want this law to speed up these processes, that we simply start to act faster because if we act as slowly as we did again, we will generally not have much to publish in the register. And another question only in this part, and it is taught to a colleague of Bulja, whether when this reporting possibility is made, will it only refer to the support that is yet to come or can really be introduced into the programme, that one analysis of all these aids that have already been shared, at least in some period since Croatia became at least an EU member. So maybe it would be a good answer to questions that are usually asked and give everything a little clearer picture. So, I absolutely repeat what you have now explained, and I think that this is extremely necessary, and I consider that unlike some colleagues, Croatian citizens are very interested in this and not only Croatian citizens as people, they are interested in, of course, local self-government, they are interested in all those who will compete, who will seek support and legal persons. And it would be wonderful and excellent if the ministries that will call these aid tenders were to create competitions where entrepreneurs, craftsmen, citizens could report and be able to use, and not as we have so far had support, in principle, for those for whom they were not able to report at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31051	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Marijana Balic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31052	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the promoter, State Secretary Tufekčić, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, this is about a bill harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. In the introductory part of the draft law, as stated by the Proposer, the State Aid Act was primarily governed by the competences of the relevant authorities in the Republic of Croatia in relation to matters relating to state aid. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the State aid Act, as already stated, adds the provisions of transparency of state aid and complements existing provisions in the section relating to the State aid register. What is important is to emphasise that this bill would make the necessary adjustments to data transparency in state aid in line with the guidelines of the European Commission communication on the modernisation of state aid in the European Union. The transparency of state aid is precisely the key component of the modernisation mentioned, and therefore the amendments and additions to the law are indeed welcome. At the same time, due to transparency, responsibility is promoted and citizens are given better information on public policies. Also, the control and transparency of state aid are key components of the protection of competition not to ensure a level playing field for all entrepreneurs but also as an important factor in increasing the competitiveness of entrepreneurs and attracting and encouraging domestic and foreign investment. In addition, adaptations to data transparency promote compliance, reduce uncertainty, enable entrepreneurs to verify legality and support granted to competitors and to tax bonds to see how state resources are allocated. As regards the achievement of transparency and, as already stated, it refers specifically to the obligation of a Member State of the European Union to publish on one website data on programmes or on individual State aids, to individual State aids exceeding 500 000 euros and other regulated data. In view of the powers of the Ministry of Finance, which stem from the existing State aid law, the comprehensive website on which information on programmes or individual state aids will be published is on the pages of the said ministry. Such a single network with published data on all programmes or individual state aid will facilitate and implement the allocation of EU funds, namely, reduce the risk of double funding. It is also well pointed out that this proposal amends the provisions of the State aid Act relating to the content of the Register of State aid and small value support in such a way as to extend the same scope and significantly facilitate its use. The Register of State aid, other than the information on the state aid granted and the aid of small value, will thus contain data on programmes, i.e. individual State aid for which there is a obligation to report to the European Commission. In the already established register, instead of the previous publication of data delivery once a year, support bodies will enter data almost daily. Based on such an extended register, the Ministry of Finance will continue to produce a report on state aid and small-value support and will deliver it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Following that above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31053	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31054	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the adoption of this law because it is in everyone's interest to have a transparent system of granting state support. Of course, this is how we align ourselves with European directives, European legislation, but I certainly need to ask the question and ask why we are only now, why we are only under the pressure of the European Commission and of the European Regulation to pass a law that is transparently publicising state support. The fact that in this area was a mess, who made the mess now introduces order. Okay, I agree, we need to put in order, we need all the data on who was receiving state support, on which basis, how he used them, and whether he justified the grant investments that certain companies did. When I say it's a mess, I'll mention some examples. And tax-debt forgiveness is a kind of state support. And of course, at certain times when our Agrocomplex came into trouble, we needed help to preserve agricultural production especially in Slavonia and Baranja and other regions. So, for example, it's allowed PIC Djakovo to go bankrupt and disappear from the economic scene,... in Slavonski Brod, Klas in Novi Gradiška and a series of examples of those where, because of the 50, 60 million kuna tax debt, there was no way and model to help these companies and some Kutjevo companies were both forgiven for tax debt and miraculously privatized, it works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But who controls whether this entrepreneur who privatised Kutjevo or VUPIK Vukovar really respected the terms of the contract because he got the company rehabilitated and had certain investment obligations in the further development of these companies. The fact is, you can't see these investments on the ground. The fact is that, for example, when I mentioned Kutjeva has become and a certain obligation to allow cooperatives to have someone to hand over the grapes, those who do not deal with wine production and that it has not been respected for many years but have had to sell their product for invaluation and on the other hand we have allowed imports of both grapes and wines from Macedonia and other countries. Here's one example of where the mess is made, and that's why it's important that we have this law, that we have all the data in one place, and then we can draw out some activities to preserve our economy, to stimulate economic growth. And when you're talking to craftsmen, entrepreneurs, farmers today, everyone's aim is to have a transparent support system. And what's important is that they have the availability of support information, the same right for everyone. Because we often have a chance to see that when it comes to state aid some have information earlier. And what will look like a tender, what will be the conditions, and then when the tender is called will be 15, 20, 30 days and most entrepreneurs and will not be able to collect all the documentation to report to the competition until the second day the tender is announced submitted the documentation. What's he saying? If we had not had a transparent system and not all had equal availability of state support and therefore needed such a law and therefore needed such records, but then it also took control of state bodies to make the support really available to everyone. In addition to having to write a report and be available to the European Commission and European authorities and entrepreneurs, as well as our agricultural producers, ask that they have this information which they have received both in support and in what way and when they will be paid. These days, here comes the payment of support in agriculture. And today, our agricultural producers don't know what they've got, whether it's per hectare, whether it's per herd, whether it's for organic production, and it's announced to get these reports. And here we are, on behalf of our agricultural producers, asking that this system be created and that they get that information from which they have received these funds so that they can plan further their production. It is also mentioned here that the unequal rights of Croatia in relation to other EU members and the facts speak in this direction, that most European members have hidden support to preserve some of their strategic production and social peace. It's about France. I'd like to set another example in France. When the dairy industry came to their problems, French millions of euro amounts encouraged its dairy industry and the production of cheese and the processing of milk into cheese and preserved that production in the country. And there was a complaint from the European Commission, but they defended it was our strategic branch, it was our tradition. This is how we preserve heritage, culture and agriculture in France. Is Croatia allowed to do this today to preserve its dairy industry? We've already heard at what stage we're at to reduce the number of producers, that we don't have 30% of our own milk production for our own purposes. And I think there must be criteria for Croatia to meet these challenges, because this is also the last example of last year's frost, the loss of vineyarding and fruit growing. We have decided that with 20 or so governments, or the Ministry of Agriculture, the damage to the cold is only for fruit farmers, and again only for the large ones with 20 million kunas. Austria has paid more than 120m euros to its agricultural producers with frost damage. We are not even and we need to find models to introduce some measures to preserve production in Croatia. Economic growth is announced, gross social product growth is said to be 3%, a 4.5% wish and is said to have contributed to domestic demand, tourism, exports. I agree it should be pointed out. However, what I want to point out is that through, we need to come up with state support that will also start agricultural production because then we and tourism will be exports if there is a domestic product on the table of tourists. We see shy announcements that certain contacts exist and that the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Economy are sitting at the table, designing these measures. We're already late. We started such a law ten years ago. Here in the Croatian Parliament we did not get consent from the European Commission although both Spain and Malta have parts of such laws that encourage the integration of hotelers and agricultural producers and condition in the preparation of the tourist season that on the tourist table must be a product of domestic indigenous production. And I think that Croatia must also design such programmes and projects. Even through tax reform, we welcomed a reduction in income tax from 20% to 18% and 13%, respectively. But we said that for those regions where we are lagging behind in economic growth and development, we need to come up with other measures, reinvested profits, and so on for Slavonia, Baranja, Lika and those where we have a population drain and without investing in human potential in these areas, we cannot achieve the effects of state aid or any other measure unless we have labour. And here is the announcement that 20 thousand people have been missing in tourism. And right now they're from Slavonia most people are leaving there to work and the announcement is that they're going to need more of these people. However, education must also be designed, requalifications in order for these people to acquire knowledge and skills so that they can respond in the tourism sector and through these support to allow them to live from their work, not to be underestimated and underpaid, which was often an opportunity. Of course, state aid programmes should also be designed for the wood industry, because this is one of our comparative advantages, given that we have our own raw materials. But it is often questionable whether it is important for Croatian forests to operate with profits or whether it is important to have a wood industry that employs more than 40,000 people. It must mean that reconciliation and there must be models to preserve that industry. And, of course, through regional policies, we ensure balanced development through the state regional policies of all regions. The big investment boom in Slavonia and Baranja was announced. I would like to see this happen as soon as possible and see what state measures and support will be taken to encourage these projects in Slavonia and Baranja. Because the fact that we're all late together. I say once again, the HSS Club supports this law with the aim of achieving transparency, availability and control of public support placements because it is still taxpayers' money and we must be responsible for them and they expect us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31055	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31056	Dear counterpart Vlaovic, I fully support your presentation, and I believe that such recommendations by the EU that have produced and led to the amendment of this law should not only be done in order for us to meet what the EU requires of us, which is that after 27 years we finally begin to report transparently to the public about the purpose of spending state aid. In addition to the public spending of these funds, I think that these initiatives are also important to make the system itself transparent and not only transparent, but to clearly prescribe the responsibility of all those involved in the decision-making processes for the award of such funds because in these 27 years, Croatian history of recent Croatian history, we have very many billions of kunas of state funds that have been allocated for different purposes that have failed. I have never seen that neither he who purposelessly spent them nor he who assigned them to whom he purposelessly spent. And in that sense, I think it is necessary, of course, to look into the future, but to do one thorough review of everything that has been done in the past wrong so that we do not repeat such mistakes in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31057	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31058	Thank you, colleague Kristic. I agree with you, and I have said this in my debate that we need this law and this way of informing everyone interested in the placement of all state aid, and I have stressed that so far we have not had one such system because different ministries have granted state support either from a national source or from European money, and it has not always been equally visible and has not been equally accessible to all our entrepreneurs. And I have just asked that in future proceedings in the announcements of these measures and state aid, any ministry is still going to talk to entrepreneurs, whether craftsmen, midcaps or medium-caps, farmers to define the rules of the game through public debate, and that everyone is ready and knows which documents to be delivered to the same. And not that some people know that before and that way they're ahead and then we're not all competitive. And it is certain that the placements of these funds should also require to control whether the effects have been achieved through those measures and programmes that have been reported to the competition because we often have a situation where no one controls it. They mentioned operational programmes for livestock, for multi-annual plantations where in a certain way and the system failed because we were not with these people when they came into financial difficulties rather than being alone on the market, they remained in the stockpiles of banks, and the state got out of it even though it supported them. I think a system approaches it that way to avoid it and it would remain our economy alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31059	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31060	Thank you very much. You asked your colleague why so far these incentives have not been transparent, these supports that have been granted who knows what amounts. Well, it's just, knowingly, political elites have been doing it, it's consciously targeted. They did so knowingly, and when they entered the EU before they joined the EU when it was unanimously brought to Parliament, they knew all about it. Wasn't the problem with them all raised up because they were networked and today we have a problem that the strongest Agrokor I have to mention him how much I read from the media that he's in trouble. But it is we have a Croatian country agricultural, we have water where it owns the charger, so the huge incentives have gone away. Not just here, but who knows where. This is where you call for an audit of all these support, someone has to be closed. If five billion kunas are given in livestock for dairy production and the number of cattle is given. The male cows fell to the bottom, who's responsible? Apparently no one in Croatia. The ministry is obliged to propose in the second reading and back a complete register and revision of these incentives, if it makes no sense then. What are we going to do now in Slavonia if we don't have any more cattlemen if they've gone to Germany or Ireland? What will we encourage when the incentives that Minister Jakovina was supposed to give from European funds should be given to the Croatian peasant who will now have to subsidise Croatia will be a shock to the Croatian economy, there will be 40, 50, 60,000 people on the road. And the cashier gave our sisters, our mothers, his cousins two thousand kunas' wages, they can't go to the bathroom during hours. Needs audit, ministry audit, register of all support and audit of all support, USKOK, DORH is their business. It's not their job to play by television...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31061	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Reply Dear colleague Davor Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31062	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I agree with your initiative to make a register of support so far. Someone here has already said, at least since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, but it would be desirable to see what was before, because we had state support, we also had different types of forgiveness of claims, whether tax-based, whether through pre-taste settlements, and it was never transparent with which purpose to achieve it. It has always been wrapped up in some story that we want to preserve Croatia's economy. Yeah, you should keep it but not in a way to implement the support model through that IMT shortcut had me there. And if there's still some evidence that someone misused the need not to spend them, that he didn't hire a certain number of workers as much as he reported in the application, that he didn't raise the level of production, then not only him, but also the one who approved the support, and especially if there were audit findings, and they went to these companies and the State Audit and gave recommendations. And we have often seen in the State Audit reports that the State Audit has responded but that the state bodies you mentioned have done nothing. So here is now an opportunity to show all this information through one systematic way and to make it easier to act on them but what we all want in Croatia and that the state works not only through the placement of state support but also through control. And I, too, if someone committed a crime and through the activities of the Ministry of the Interior, the DORH and the judicial authorities. And so far, the fact that some were subject to action while others were forgotten. And I would like no offense to be forgotten in Croatia, let alone a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31063	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his reply. The following also appeared in the replica, a distinguished colleague, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31064	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vlaović, you have all said this nicely and you support the law, it is normal that we want transparently all of us and that we are interested. I answered when you mentioned that many of the support was granted that not all were informed of it at the same time and were not able to compete in such competitions at the same time. Of course this law won't solve it, but it's good to open it up. And the other thing that was also such a reason for me to report to you a little bit of replication and to supplement things a little bit, and to explain some things, was that the state didn't react, intervened to those who were given before support when they suffered because of some bad policies. And that's what you know for yourself how many times we've held press conferences, made statements, pointed out that especially at the time of the government's corn coalition. Especially at the time. Here we were at the same battlefield in politics, giving the same attitudes Let's remember the situation when some local leaders were bringing documents and the ministry's competition, the morning at 9 o'clock, that day was open competition, so they told them there was already over, the contest was closed. It was that time. I know it's a little awkward for you, and it's probably been hard for you to get into that same coalition after all, and I believe you've managed to overcome it. But here, I'm glad we support this law together in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31065	He thanks his esteemed colleague, Hrga, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31066	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hrg, it is not only about the availability of information in the tendering process, because the fact that when you talk to craftsmen and entrepreneurs that they often complain that they do not have the right information and the evidence is that what you mentioned is that when the first day is called, there are already so many applications that it is simply impossible that they did not have the information and that in one day they have collected all the necessary documentation and applied for the competition. And I think even then the state authorities were supposed to react, cancel the competition and give everyone a chance to run for such state support as is missing. Of course, especially when it comes to granting support in agriculture I'm particularly sensitive to our agricultural producers. Well, you also had this latest example of the competition on rural development programme to measures 4.1 and 4.2 where there was also a benefit to certain bodies and companies, and where the European Commission was also being supervised but then again we made a mistake not to make a decision in these competitions for a year and a half, and that today they are just getting these decision-makers and decisions, and in the meantime their building permits expired, the supplier changed the technology for equipment to be delivered to them and so on. So the system itself, and I want to point out this once again, too, and we're norming competitions, laws, that our entrepreneurs can't participate evenly and with others we're not doing them any harm, and I think that way we need to be at our service to our entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31067	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31068	Thank you, dear Vice President. So when we talk about support, then we need to be interested in one thing, which is competitiveness and be more competitive than others, and I think that this is the purpose of the support shared in the European Union, and that in the European Union countries that have richer budgets always have hidden support so that they are farmers, whether they are craftsmen, entrepreneurs or tourist workers, to help them in a hidden way to be more competitive than other EU members, so that their country can prosper and their budget is better filled. I think that in this sense we should look at support and not sometimes be more Catholic than the Pope and that we should enable our people to get as much support as possible and not engage in audits and now look backwards for who is what and how much they get. Believe that we who deal with agricultural production would be the happiest if we knew exactly what we were and when we got the records on the bank account believe me that by these codes it's very, very hard to determine and remember some more who are 70 years old and are engaged in agriculture. Mr. Horg mentioned political options here. I believe that this should be a political consensus of all policy options to be our priority to support, and even these hidden support or indirect to encourage our economy to develop and not to try now to try backwards or to close or destroy with some kind of revision. Let us smile a little, as Royce said, “He who pitted, he pitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31069	I thank my esteemed colleague, Leonard. Answer, dear colleague Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31070	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague should not only introduce a rule that every entrepreneur has access to information about what is being supported and for which he must receive information for which he has received support. You mentioned agricultural producers. And today they don't know what they're getting money for through incentives. She was the only one in a year to receive a report as long as he was Minister Bozidar Pankretic. After that, it was abolished, they did not receive these notifications on what they received support. Obviously, it didn't work out for anyone. I think the practice must be interrupted and Minister Tolusic announced that agricultural producers will gain insight into what they have been paid in what amount. So far it's gone. They have to call the paying agency. The agency is swamped by calls, they don't get to answer, and in the whole chain, all dissatisfied, the system doesn't work. But what is important to emphasise is that state support, even in agriculture, should not be a purpose itself, but to protect certain productions by means of a planned support policy, raise the level of production in Croatia, whether it is sufficient food, which is important for Croatia. But also some other branches that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia to raise production levels through support. And that what is more important for me and for us from the HSS is that this is evenly regionally deployed, i.e. those regions that are more underdeveloped get more support and catch up with these more developed regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31071	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic. And the last replica, dear colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31072	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Vlaovic, you've said a lot today in your presentation on behalf of the club. But I would only like to look back on rural development in Slavonia and Baranja and Podravina. And there have been certain things that will be improved by this law, i.e. transparency in seeing those who gain support will be seen how many sister companies with fictitious conditions are on the list of acquisitions of state aid. It was in the past of this government's Kukuriku coalition when the minister was Jacobina. As you talked about it, it was known first of all that the criteria and conditions were. Prior to the opening of the competitions they were acquired, sister companies were made, and therefore they were just people who wanted to improve agricultural production in Slavonia and develop and help in rural development and in this project Slavonia, who cried out for money, have disabled these two years. They should be out of the system punished and never report to the competition again. By setting up such companies, they must have destroyed those who had the goal of development, progress and improvement. As for the criteria that, in one country, say France when they are called for their needs, the competition is then placed that the wood for that furniture must be from that forest. What do you think if we were to put in a contest that the tree must be from the Spachvan forest, oak lollipop such and such quality. Who from the EU but those who buy from our sawmills who sell invaluable buildings and act like Milky Ways. Which of the European suppliers or furniture manufacturers could compete with us. No one. These national values we have to protect and treat them and welcome this Transparency Act so that we can have vision in the future and that we can all react to what is unfair and wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31073	I thank my esteemed colleague Djakic. Answer, dear colleague Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31074	Thank you. Comrade Djakić, here you and I agree that Croatia must design models to help our wooden industry. And not only to the wood industry, but to all those industries that we consider to be strategic for us, to have a high share of domestic raw materials, to have an increase in employment and to contribute to overall economic growth and development, and then there will be money for upgrades, for social activities and more. And no one should in my opinion forbid the Republic of Croatia to do what the French or Austrians do. I mentioned examples of how they do so to protect their production, and I often point out that when we pass some aid laws, we ask too many European Commissions and we do not talk to our agricultural producers craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and then, in that conflict, most often, farmers, craftsmen and entrepreneurs get hurt rather than talking to them first, to see which support they need, in which way, and then to create state policies. I hope that this direction will change and that we will go to the craftsman, the entrepreneur, the businessman, because they need to be our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31075	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his reply. The following came to the debate, the Honorable State Secretary, Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In view of the fact that a lot of the debate was being held on aid in agriculture, I would therefore like to stress that support in agriculture or when we talk about state aid within the meaning of the State aid Act is not about aid in agriculture. As I believe you know, there are fully separate systems for the granting of support in agriculture and have already been to the EU's top regulation, and this is what the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU has separated these two support systems. Therefore, for support in agriculture, there are fully separate regulations and support systems, as well as in the Republic of Croatia, so that neither direct payments nor rural development measures are covered by this law nor by this register. As you know, i.e. I believe you know on the pages of the Payment Agency there are posts about the state aid granted through the system of granting support in agriculture. Here's to further discussion. So when we talk about this law, we don't mean support in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31077	I thank Secretary of State Vlaovic for this explanation. We have a replica of a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31078	Well, I'd agree with you if it wasn't just you as the Ministry of Finance, but you're the controller that essentially transfers the funds. So we have support and others, for example. for Croatian forests, for balvana for domestic producers, we also have quotas that are difficult to deal with. Well, in my area, almost one sawmill closed because it couldn't get the raw materials, and it employs 50, 60 people in... and in Sinj very important. They could not get the balvanas because the limited quotas for producers are domestic, while when exports should be more expensive balvanies, does not speak the product in the tree. However, it should be checked this way, here I publicly call on how many balvana is sold under domestic products with the incentive of state, and in fact exports. They've reported that they produce, but they don't actually produce. These are huge damages to the Croatian state. While domestic wood growers can't get to the balvana and have to fire people for some quotas. So there should also be state institutions entering the Croatian forest and checking this selective way of robbing the Croatian state through national strategic interests, which are Croatian forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31079	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS-HSU Representatives, dear colleague of the Goddess Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31080	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I also welcome the honourable representatives of the legislators of this law, the respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is also the proposal on amendments to the Law on State Support. We are talking about harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. We need to know, and the Secretary of State pointed out this to us that the State aid Act, that this is a general law governing only the conduct of the competent authorities in granting state aid. Therefore, the State aid Act does not regulate areas for which state aid, objectives and the like are granted, it is within the competence of the support providers, i.e. ministries, funds, agencies. By means of their measures, which are often not and most often in the form of laws, but other regulations regulate this area. This area is really important, and it is good that we are also dealing with these problems in this debate. However, I would only remain on this proposal to amend the State aid Act. What's going on here? We have here to add provisions on the transparency of state aid and to supplement existing provisions in the section relating to the State aid register. It may not seem to be major changes, but any change that brings greater transparency is very, very big and important. This would make the necessary adjustments to the transparency of State aid data stemming from the EU Commission Regulation No. 651 of 17 June 2014, with a view to assessing certain categories of support and their compatibility with the internal market and the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty, and other EU acts. In this respect, the European Commission has launched communication on the modernisation of state aid in the EU, all in the context of the preparation of the multiannual financial framework, and EU structural funds rules for the period 2014-2020, and in order to achieve transparency, all EU Member States are required to publish on one website all support for individual values exceeding 500 000 euros and other regulated data. Since the Ministry of Finance is already in possession of certain competences under the existing State Aid Act, it is logical that the website is managed or formed within the Ministry of Finance. This proposal also amends the provisions of the State Aid Act in the content of the register, covers the register, facilitates its use, regulates and more up-to-date data entry so that data will now be entered daily and will be really more up-to-date than when it was legal once a year. Data will be entered online or predicted as in concessions and will be more visible to all interested, especially entrepreneurs who will be able to see, compare, analyse themselves and their competition and easily point to any irregularities. I have to say that so far we have had an insight into the data or that we have had on the network pages of the support providers, whether it was the Ministry, the agency or the fund. As a rule, the ministry was the first to introduce this after certain tenders after a year, although a little late, we could look at the programmes that all received certain support. If it could have been more transparent, I believe it is, but in order to improve and more transparency by introducing this website, I think it will be a much easier comparison or comparison and demand. But I would also like to keep it on the website of the support providers for a simple reason because there will be a lot of information here, and some may only be interested in certain situations. So it was so convenient when we had in the contests of the Ministry of Tourism it was also a lot of these competitions of certain programmes, that it was according to the programs so each interested one could be found and analyzed there. It has already been noted that this does not apply to support in agriculture, therefore it is thus exempt and all other than Article 17 where small value support is reported to be published by 30 June of the current year. According to us in HNS, it may be a little questionable, it amends the law where it is proposed in Article 4. sub-paragraph 7. Deletation and support of small value. It is proposed that changes in small value support no longer measure the effectiveness of small-value support. It is argued that the measurement cannot be carried out in an adequate manner, as it is a small amount of support which mainly does not provide concrete objectives but is of an operational nature. In part, we can accept this argument, but we think it would be much more transparent if it still remained that way more because for these whole amendments of the law, we're putting an accent on transparency, so I don't see any reason why it should be deleted. It may require more effort, more paper, more time, but it would certainly bring one greater faith and belief to these measures and transparency of all these things. We think that there might be some support that could be given on an arbitrary basis, which no one would actually have an excuse for but also because someone thinks it would be good, let that support go. So I think this should stay here and support small value. The HNS Club, the HSU, will support the amendments to this law in the first reading, I believe we will still discuss them and that we may accept some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31081	I thank my esteemed colleague, Christmas, at least for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31082	Your colleagues have elaborated, of course, transparency is important and anything about transparency should be supported. Unfortunately, many support will do great harm to Croatian society, both the budget and the citizens. For example. There are wind power plants on every hill almost in my Cetin end. So in 2017, the Croatian state will miss, in this year 1.1 billion kuna due to support for... For the wind, the wind power plant because the price on the market is one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 25 limes and otherwise for wind power plants 90 limes for renewable sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The next year 2018 will be 1.5 billion, i.e. 1.5 billion and 2019. 1.6 billion, all of which were passed in 2014. These support is also very questionable. And now the state needs it, i.e. and the Ministry of Energy because of this disastrous decision you can testify whether they are good or not where citizens will have to pay the foreign investor... and it's such a blow to the citizens, mainly from those parts that they should pay but I hope they will find funds in the budget, but surely these support should be audited, see who signed them, who brought them to the harm of the citizens and who they took advantage of because they cause effects from year to year that will be catastrophic, there are huge money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now we have these renewable energy sources, e.g. Gas station in the area of the spring on the Pera dam, i.e. hydrothermia. Private investors who have their own, only their own interests, are not interested in chimneys of 150 metres, but are well enough for them. On behalf of the State, i.e. HEP. So the many decisions that have been made in support cause a difficult situation in the matter, here's the power in... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31083	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. And the answer to my distinguished colleague, Macar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31084	Dear fellow Bull, I thank you for your question. Here, I was speaking in my debate, and at the very beginning, I looked back that it was a proposal to amend and supplement the law on state aid and that I would stick to that part and I stressed that it was good to discuss both the rest and all the support. The one that you've listed here now, I'm allowing the part, there's truth in it, I allow everyone in what they're discussing today, here from us, to know the part, but none of us know the whole thing, and I'm going to make it all transparent. But when a debate is opened about a particular support then to discuss that, then to analyze it, to explain everything, to check everything, and only then can we be equal participants of that debate. Otherwise, I'm sure whenever anyone asks any of us here now, not from us, on the street to meet and everyone has an example of some support and some assignments that they're not happy with, but that way we really can't discuss, but I'm always for a reasoned debate and that's the only way we can be transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31085	I thank you for your response to my distinguished colleague, Macar. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31086	Thank you, Vice President. Collars Although transparency has no price, transparency has no alternative, but primarily independence is not only because it is an EU directive, we must do it primarily for our sake, that is what you have pointed out in your debate. Furthermore, when it comes to this, it is as a general aid law that is extremely important since it is public money to know the justification of any support and thus resulting from any aid. So after that, you get support for something that resulted. A later evaluation of the effects could then be carried out. In my view, this is even more important, and more important than many of the items mentioned in this law. Furthermore, there is a reference to sectoral support defined by certain resolutions, which is granted, as it is granted, I simply agree that this part that is foreseen by the law that the support of small value is abolished is not for this. We simply discussed this at the club, because each kuna of public money must be more than transparently presented and accessible to all interested. I believe that both finance and strength and human capacity will be found to honor that part. Our suggestion is not to give up the second reading of that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31087	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for his replica. Answer, dear colleague of the Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31088	Thank you very much, fellow Btinic. Well, here's what you've done for yourself. You've done many of the things I've brought out in my debate. It is true, and that is why we advocate that every day there be a more transparent situation and a field that is related to support. Yeah, well, it hasn't been ideal so far, but a lot of things have been done, and I'm sure it's getting better every day. But this is absolutely so that this should not be abolished as regards the support of small value, because it is still the money of all taxpayers, all citizens, all taxpayers or citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and every kuna is very, very important. Some time it looks like, well, 20,000 kunas of support, so much paperwork, so why? But 20000 kuna is very, very much, and every citizen of ours will surely support that this is big money, regardless of what is in support of small value and some amounts far greater than that are in support of small value and that the same assessment of its effectiveness must be carried out, i.e. the objectives that it aims to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31089	I thank my esteemed colleague, at least for the answer. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31090	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Macar, you said that we were still together for what you said positively about this bill amending the law, that we had so far, so data in various places, and that's true. But somehow I got the impression that in that part of the debate, you wanted to justify a little bit what was going on at the time of the Kukuriku government. And that was a lot of arbitrary support. And that's why I agree that you have to give the information for those little ones, just some simple one. Not a big bureaucracy, a lot of papers like that happened with the Association Act where people for 500 kuna have to give birth to the malts to make it, to get that money at all. It means simplifying the thing yes. But in any case, when someone gives some support, sharing support can even formally have transparency. To publish it in a hundred different places no one can link it, no one can find it, and the form is satisfied. And that's what happened. That's probably been happening all these years, but I have to do that, so I called you back because you spoke on behalf of the club that was the main partner to the SDP, the Kukuriku government when there were a lot of strange decisions on support allocations. It's been said there's no agriculture here, we're not going to talk about it, but I'm going to say that even here on these huge, big programs, it was obviously intended to end something without talking about arbitrary decisions shared by local self-governments, etc. There really was everything. Thank you for supporting this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31091	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrga, for the replica. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31092	Dear colleague, here I am not willing to defend or attack anyone. I know that transparency, i.e. the establishment of data release, has been started since the government of the HDZ. And that's what I'd support. That it continued and improved during Milanovic's government, improved. I'm not going to talk about this for a year because something really important hasn't happened in that period. But arbitrary statements were doubtful, but there were always those who would doubt and will always be those who doubt. But that's why there should be clear criteria. The objective of this law is greater transparency. But I'm standing on that one again. We can discuss every single programme, but only with arguments and not arbitraryly because I am against such flat-rate reviews and flat-rate accusations regardless of the left, right-hand side, center, everyone. Everyone has even the right to make mistakes, but then to know that it's a mistake, not that it's a set-up. But we can't doubt it, can we? We can suspect anything, but we have to make decisions that everything is measurable, that the exact procedures are known, that the rules are known and after that results. That these results are available, publicly, that everyone has insight and that they can be combined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31093	I thank my esteemed colleague, at least for the answer. The following has been reported for discussion on behalf of the Representatives' Club "We Change Croatia" by a distinguished colleague, Prof. Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The question has already been raised here, there have been thoughts about what support they are doing, what are they doing in the first place? If they're part of our modern life, in fact, our reality. But one thing is true. The less effective economic policy is needed in a country. In Croatia, economic policy has proved to be inefficient, poor in recent years, and we see that the needs for state aid are constantly growing. In a country like this, a small economy with major war and consequences does not have these subsidies and this amount of subsidies that can compensate for such a poor macroeconomic policy that has been led over the past 20 years. So here's when I was getting ready for this debate I looked at a little bit of data and a few observations here I'm going to say maybe actually a little recommendation. First, I went to watch the annual report on state aids in the Republic of Croatia and on the website of the Ministry of Finance I found the 2013 report as the freshest. Please, the area of support subsidies is a matter of discretion, it means discretionism which is to a certain extent incompatible with market business and principles. So precisely because there must be state support, because of certain priorities, there must be a problem of discretion, and that discretion has to be made public somewhere to be transparent, so we say this is support, but they got these, these or them. So, gentlemen, the first thing we as agents have to ask the Ministry of Finance, the Government that in the time of the unprecedented development of IT, telecommunications when we can't say in real time, so let's take a month of late data, but three years for late data or analysis it's simply incomprehensible. Why are they late? Don't ask me that. One of the elements of state support was subsidies and this was also the talk, and in 2015 I saw this from the state budget on the side of expenditure they reached about 6 billion kuna 400 million, and in 2014 they were 5.1 billion means an increase of 1.3 billion kuna, which is a significant increase. However, several observations regarding subsidies as an important element of state aid, the most important, and perhaps not because I am going to say some dilemmas, it is interesting that companies in the public sector receive fewer subsidies than private sector companies or ownership. In 2015, public companies received 993 million kuna, and a private billion kuna means private property. It is interesting that subsidies are even received by credit institutions, which was around 140 million kuna in 2014, about 80 million kuna in 2015, the question arises why, is it perhaps some stimulation of savings etc. But it has to be discussed. That hundred million can be said on some side to pay for meals to children in Croatia, there are a number of reasons, it will be paid. Here are the fellow citizens who follow us through small screens it's amazing how much money is being wasted in Croatia and we know where, but apparently no one wanted to bring it into order so far. So he's got money. When we talk about subsidies in Croatia, since they are said that this area of discretionism has become a political instrument, meaning as the most important word source, segment of state support, they have become an important political instrument on Croatian occasions, from agriculture, crafts, etc. So the people in the villages know well how this or that neighbor is a member of this party or that party as he received a certain subsidy. And as for the general problem of subsidies in agriculture, let's say in warfare, we know that they are not by quality but by size of the surface, so we saw that there are not even heated surfaces but they were paid. So in such a mess as has been in Croatia for years, order must be introduced because this is about public money, about taxpayers' money. Let's take an example of the milkman, they've been destroyed by economic policy. First came the multinational company Lactalis, said it would be good, that it would be all blooming, people were animated to take loans from banks, to build farms, to buy the milkier cows after two, three years, there was a second phase that no one had explained, which is that the prices of milk fell because the French and others don't know where to go with their milk, but the interest remained high even with the currency clause, and now many people are in trouble. That is why I propose on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia to implement the refinancing of all farm loans existing at an interest rate of up to 1%. This will be an extremely important support and can be implemented, so it will not be limited by Brussels because they are doing the same. I agree here with one proposal, we support our club, to audit state support. So it's inadmissible for colleagues and colleagues to look for a report on state aid first on the farm site at the Ministry of Agriculture, this over there, the Ministry of Transport, there, it must be on one page. If it's in this law, if that's what you're thinking, then that's it. But what's interesting here? And so far, the state aid law, it's mentioned here in your introduction, I read carefully, he insisted on doing just that. You know. The problem of this country is that we have a series of good laws, but they are in practice being broken and no one asks why it is because no one has ever worked at the end of the reckoning to not say audit because they are afraid of each other, and the people would say crows don't dig their eyes and we simply have to cut such practices in Croatia. Our citizens have chosen us here to change Croatia, not to consider reports a few years old. Please another example, here it is said that even more favourable loans at lower interest rates here are also said that more favourable loans at lower interest rates also fall, according to the European Union as State aid. So here, let's take the HBOR, I remind you, once again I ask you, I ask for an answer, why is 2 billion kunas not charged, loans approved by the HBOR? And I'm looking from this place and I'm going to send a written request on behalf of the club to publish when, which, at what rate, it is, therefore, approved loans and by party criteria because I doubt a certain number of loans have anything to do with the party's, therefore, composition of certain governments. And 2 billion kunas of unpaid public money loans, state money, gentlemen, I think it's huge money. So in that sense, this law, we know that it will not essentially solve the problem of state aid, its, if it takes a step forward in transparency and I repeat there was no reason why not to publish all the reports about it by name and by some activity who got it, so these are the basic things to be done. And another important thing to say. It is not true that every support should be written to Brussels, so ask if we can support this, for that. They are right here, let's say, exemptions from approval, i.e. a request to Brussels, they are too high if they exist in the country of the area, and certain problems that require the removal of difficulties in the economy. So if it's regional, it means certain parts of Croatia that are the weakest developed, or if we have problems in agriculture, then the hands of the Croatian government are open that means the benefits of the state support policy in the way that suits us. Where do we find a foothold for that? Well, gentlemen, when the problem was in 2008, in the 9th, 10th years, all these past 6, 7 years, the European Union, certain countries in unprecedented proportions, have helped their economic, certain activities, I will not talk about other parts of the world but in the European Union. Therefore, no one has the right to take away that right or to salt our brains if we have to save certain parts of our economy that are in terrible conditions. In that sense, we advocate an increase, not only of transparency, but of law enforcement, of law enforcement and not of discipline already seen in Croatia for so many years, described here, do you have any connection to the last minute of the paper being given, that there is no knowledge of what is done. So we have to put an end to it. And what's important and final to say, the level of state support, I also saw it from this report that... Data, in the expenditures of the country is around 7, slightly below 7% and it is particularly interesting to reduce the share of support to agriculture compared to total support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here's why Slavonia means more to the end. Finally, state support is therefore a non-market form of helping the economy, they are necessary, without them not a single country works but it must be a policy that cannot be politics, but one designed policy that will be in the service of the development of the economy and democracy and the improvement of living standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31095	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31096	Thank you very much. You told Lovrinovic in your discussion that the subsidies were subsidized and financial institutions, which does not necessarily mean that the subsidy was directed at them, means that it is possible that it is a subsidised, or it is most likely that it is the subsidized loans that then went into the economy, i.e. subsidies that were placed in residential savings, i.e. the promotion of a housing savings programme where the subsidy eventually ends with the citizens of the Republic who, after a certain period, have the opportunity to reactivate their savings and afterwards get that incentive from the country which is placed. So it doesn't necessarily have to be bad, especially those programmes that turn to young people who want to be taken care of and on the other hand encourage one part of the construction sector and can ultimately turn out to be very efficient and quality support that has positive effects. So when you say this to the first to give support in the financial sector it sounds illogical and I am absolutely against it. But when it is said that it can end in this part of cheaper loans for young people, for housing and for building some new capacities in the construction sector, it can and is essentially a good thing and I am not against it and I think it should continue to support it. So I think it would be good to clarify in that way what you were going to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31097	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for the replica. And the answer to my esteemed colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31098	Here's colleague Maras, you've noticed this one part of what I said. I assumed it might refer to that one housing savings. However, I would agree with you, but why don't I agree? If a bank with those young people you're pointing out contracts to a currency clause like the Swiss franc and you've been in that government that's one part helped people get away with it, so if the interest rates are significantly higher than in the last 7, 8 years, no matter what it is, forgive and give subsidies to these banks, I think that's it. Fortunately, this isn't some huge failure because it's not about any excessive means. But 100 million kuna is 100 million kuna, it's a significant money. So I could agree with you if there were no of these other difficult circumstances, or those factors such as the currency clause, such as otherwise too high interest rates on loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31099	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Lovrinović. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Lovrinović. I'd like to look back on your discussion and two topics. One topic is really what my colleague Maras opened, and it's about credit subsidies. I'm much more in favour of another set of support that can be in construction and not make young people into loans, and then when they come, credits can't pay them off so we have the next problem. But I think that's another problem we need to talk about. However, you are here when you started to present one fact, which is that on the website of the Ministry of Finance the last data we have is from 2013. So a country like Croatia, a small state must decide and we must choose to support it. However, this must be publicly open and transparent. We need to know what it's about, who it's assigned to, under what conditions and control. Because we also had some cases where some other programmes we wanted to apply and withdraw from the EU were not successful for the simple reason the EU said in that case give subsidies and support without criteria we do not know what kind of programme is and we will not give it to you and we will tie it to one percent. What exactly am I trying to say? I agree with that part of your exposure to something we have to insist on, so for support we'll have one more time, and we need to be aware of that. But they must be support, we need to know they're public, they're transparent and they're controlled. So that there is at the end of that road that we know where to invest, why and that we know which branch of industry we want to help with. Are we helping a farm that we can all agree on? Are we developing some kind of pharmaceutical industry or are we developing some kind of IT technology? Supports should also be linked to the Industrial Strategy and the Strategy for the Development of the Croatian economy only then make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31101	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark Taritash. The answer of the esteemed colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31102	Thank you, colleague Mrak-Taritash, for this thought and question. The key word in your replica is transparency, that is, intransparency, and we are witnessing it. And I repeat once again at a time when we have everything available that in real time we can monitor we have a report only for 2013. I think it is clear to the citizens and it is clear to all of us that the non-transparency is, in fact, the politics of the ruling in Croatia so far, non-transparentity. And that's what bureaucrats, clients and those who will never, who are never in the first plan of the general good and the development of the state, are capable of, but simply of private interest. But watch something topical. Here are the last few days, always talking about a public debt downturn. Right? And do you know how old public debt data are in Croatian National Bank and National Statistics Institute bulletins? Three to four months. Well, here's one piece of information. 7 to 10 days ago, the Ministry of Finance issued a three-billion-dollar bond. Did you happen to find it recorded in the latest public debt data? They'll be here in about three months and then they'll say something's grown. So, my people, let's start using once more the benefits of modern technologies, computers, telecommunications. Let's get the real information, up-to-date, up-to-date as much as they're embarrassing the team better. Why? Because we're going to get out faster, figure out how things are, so we're going to look for a solution in that sense. That's what we have to do together, so we're all working to increase transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31103	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31104	Thank you, Vice President. Professor Lovrinović, you mentioned here and similar support. Since I come from Slavonia and know how support was provided in agriculture and who got it all. What happened? Slavonia has failed. Simply people who had farms of small dairy, pork and any other people simply had to shut down, leave. I know a lot of examples and go to Germany and try to get those credits back that were in charge of those farms. You mentioned earlier that you should be refinanced with one percent. Fantastic. Could that be zero percent? Could it also be a delay for people who are left and others who may have returned to give them some kind of green light or a little light as they say at the end of the tunnel? We further know our schooling, here's how much we see down in Slavonia we've lost the master. We stayed, if all the professional people who should be rebuilding at the end of this country, could support be given to vocational schools where students would get one part of the money from the state, a parent who would get some money to enroll his child in a vocational school where he would certainly be better trained, and in the other thing we would have people who needed and needed for the Croatian state. As far as I know, the support has been provided from renewable energy sources and we see energy gatherings. So it's just costing citizens, and we didn't actually get any contribution so we could make a better living than that. Well, I'd like you to say it all the way you see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31105	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31106	Thank you, fellow Misic. It's just that you notice how much you're fighting for Slavonia that's just getting into bigger and bigger problems, and I'm glad you have this attitude. I stand by the view that it is possible for all farmers who have owed 4, 5, 6, 8% along the currency clause, please with the currency clause, and the governments who have previously convinced them to buy, build, buy heifers, work people and they have entered the shears in the trap of debt slavery. I have a very clear model of how to resolve this, so here I call on you and other parliamentary representatives, the next days we will visit Slavonia for several stands to explain how this can be done, but only in principle I will say that it is possible to do so with the assistance of the CNB, the Croatian Bank, not HBOR, but the Croatian Bank and most of all, with 1%, and this operation can be carried out by the end of the year and that we decide that people can sleep more peacefully. Of course, we're not going to solve the problems of milk placement, that's the second part of the policy, but I'm saying that state aid policy is incentives, it's a very sophisticated part of the overall policy in response to globalisation, to capital domination, it's the protection of small people and those who are powerless. When you talk about the second question whether vocational schools, professions, subsidies and support can be given, well done, so of course I haven't talked about it at all. Well, that's the way to go, the way that education school adapts to market needs, to support children at that stage because some parents can't finance and that's the best way for young spending for the state, but a great proposal for the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31107	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lovrinović. It is clear to all of us in this House that this law of these amendments to the law is the final part of the process, but of course, as the final part of the process to open those issues to the beginning of the process where the greatest anomalies occur and where the problem begins which only later is confirmed or not confirmed by the publication of the data. You here have positively assessed this part by me, citing, of course, everything that should be changed, I agree with it, but you mentioned the concept of a political instrument, the use of support and subsidies as a political instrument. I absolutely believe that you are right, and I believe that after these amendments to the law, there will be some changes in the way in which you behave in order to absolutely avoid the possibility of this political instrument. And that's where I'm going to give two examples that we've witnessed in recent times. I remember an example of Mr. Hajdas Doncic's Minister of Transport at the time. As a political instrument, man divided 400 million kunas into ZUCs by similarity and damaged the permanent ZUC at the level of the Republic of Croatia which now have reduced revenues and cannot maintain roads. And I can't, and I can't mention that then the minister of Jacob's plan was to work on a rural development programme so that he would unfortunately end up as he ended up. So that was the beginning, now we have the results. This debate and these changes must lead to that second debate and to solve the problem at the outset.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31109	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Hrg, for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31110	Dear colleague Hrg. Here's a concrete example of how politics benefit from support, but both of which are in the past year, it's Croatia, I'm not going to say it's all of us, but we live in it. We here today cannot talk about what the composition of the body that decisions on individual support should look like because it is not part of this law because there are concrete amendments to the law that have been made here. But we can launch an initiative here today that in these bodies is eating it from the Ministry of Agriculture, finance but I don't know who assigns to a particular area to include representatives of a certain part of the representatives of associations independent people who are not, from the academic community, and that at least there will be one stone in the shoe that can't be done what you want, and in particular to reduce the share of political analysis of state support to individual people, businesses, and in particular that this is not particularly seen before the elections. I repeat, state support is politics, but let's not be, let's not let it be politics, and in particular let's not let it take proportions that are simply inadmissible and inadmissible, so today someone mentioned that even the EU has told us that something is not right here as much as two billion so let's check it out, I think colleague Boris said. Well, look, if it's already happened, then we have a very big problem, and I'm particularly surprised at our citizens who may not know this, and if they did, then I'm surprised at the part that tolerates it and supports it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31111	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The following came to the line from distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Lovrinović, you have all said nicely about these and the delay of the announcement of the programme and the support received but by this law on amendments and additions to the State Aid Act, three of the most important objectives of implementing the modernisation of state aid that must have come well for all of our users. Under 1st encouraging sustainable, smart, inclusive growth in the competitive internal market, this is one of the objectives that this law aims to achieve. Under 2 is the orientation of ex-ante control by the European Commission on cases with the greatest impact on the internal market and the strengthening of cooperation with the Member States of the European Union in the implementation of State aid rules. And the third is to simplify the rules on aid that enable faster, information, more credible decision-making on the basis of a clear economic justification for common approach and clear commitments. Transparency with regard to the granting of state aid is a key component of the modernisation of this law and the programme as well as the individual allocation of support are which will certainly contribute to a better and more transparent and more competitive way of achieving support in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31113	I thank my esteemed colleague Djakic for his replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31114	Dear colleague Djakic, I mean, I'd only focus here on one thing. We can write three more laws, innovate about state support, but we here as parliamentarians and citizens need reports on the results of these support. Is that spent on what it takes, whether progress has been made or nothing? Here, just before colleagues Bulj mentioned that so much fruit was invested so that we could all have 100 fruit trees each of Croatia's citizens. So the problem with this country so far is systemically, it's systematic that no one is proud, I won't tell anyone but that adequate reports are not submitted, that they aren't checked, they're not checked. The Germans say trust is good but control is even better. And that's why this country works, that's why state property works because public money in that country is deeply concerned. Let's introduce, appeal, and also to the Government, which is now, finally, meaning studio pedantic monitoring, or what has been done with the approved support, which has been achieved in the end and that we know here and all citizens, therefore, whether and in what sense it has given the effects of such a state support policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31115	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. And we still have a line in this debate, dear colleague Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31116	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinović, first of all I want to give you support in your presentation, you have criticised existing models but you have made a lot of suggestions how to improve to become better and more transparent. I also thank you for supporting my idea of revising the state aid granted so far and introducing a system of responsibility in the allocation of these support when future budget money would not be wasted in an unnecessary way. We're no El Dorado, and we don't have any money in unlimited quantities. Also, I particularly liked your finding that the system of granting state support must be a clear policy, not politics. And you pointed out very well exactly the example of dairy in which the state was of course in order to help but not strategically injected huge amounts of money and immediately after it injected that money there was an unexpected breakdown, the milk market croaked, the prices of milk fell, the users remained high credits with high interest rates and the dairy sector completely collapsed. So, you have really made one right point at the fact that Croatia does not have a clear policy of granting state support, that these are mostly fire measures, that mainly state support funds are spent ineffectively. And in that sense, here's more like my comment on your exposure than some kind of criticism or replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31117	I thank my esteemed colleague, Kristic, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31118	Fellow Kristic, really here is your idea of doing a review, that's the minimum we can do today, which I don't think we can and can't agree on. But here I forgot to mention one segment, a lot of stories about environmental protection, nature, renewable energy sources. So let's say that these are interesting as wind power plants and these wind-related projects have gone to a lot of public money. And let's just say, it would be interesting to see what it's like on these winds, what it's done, why it's done, what the calculations were, what's the use and what's the use of threatening the danger that we all have to pay for more expensive electricity. So here's a very good example of whether a public debate is being conducted when it comes to what it's ever been concluded with, what will be the effects, whose interests are represented here, everything sounds great, it means renewable energy, there's no pollution. But I'm gonna end up with a lot of public money leaking all over the place. Let's finally work on keeping accounts for citizens, taxpayers for their money. And to show that this country can finally start to function normally but with one prerequisite, and that is political responsibility and human, professional responsibility, such simple things that we have seen in Croatia for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31119	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished colleague, Prof. Branko Greek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31120	... There's nothing to say. [[Specially enabled.]] It is indeed necessary to support these ideas on compliance with European legislation. That is the question, so first of all transparency, the introduction of a serious and detailed register of state aid and that is it. We can't support that. So we absorbed this whole story right away. There is, of course, this second part of the debate that opened this morning in the Assembly and what I want to say. First just a brief comment, so the one from the replica about the presentation of fellow Lovrinovic and those exposures that were behind it in the replicas. I think it is very important to split up again and make a clear section of what my colleague Lovrinovic was saying about discretion in support decisions. So there's discretion, and that's where I agree with my colleague Lovrinovic. Just for the sake of the public, and we all need to clearly define what this discretion means. Discretion is in the policy of designing a support programme. There can be discretion and there we can differ left from right, center etc. etc. However, when it comes to discretion in the granting of support, there is no such thing as discretion. So it's gone and it has to be quite clear. So first programs, very clear about the grant of support, and all that goes on is a procedure that needs to be in line with the programme, and that's that. I, as a minister, acted like this and stand behind all decisions of the discretionary species in terms of granting support to regional units. Therefore, it is regional support where it is and indeed there were no party criteria for granting these support. I can argue this very responsibly on a bunch of examples, and when I was criticised, perhaps on my part, by my party friends, I always stood firm behind what we finally made a decision when it came to granting support. And now I'm going back to the topic and just for a little while for the public, I think it's clear as a review of the whole situation that it actually supports today in Croatia, and what is it, where is this money going? Here we're very much talking about the money being ruined, that this, that that. Well, maybe in some percentage where the audit says 2% of 100% is low, and all over 2% is full. Well, in those 2%, I might be able to talk about some kind of waste, but in these 98% responsible, there's no waste. Why am I saying that? Here, look at how things are in the support structure. So, the biggest support today comes from the state budget of transport. What transport? Maritime transport, connecting Croatian islands with the mainland. Is that supposed to be lifted? Let us look into the eyes of our islanders and say that we will lift their ticket subsidies. It's out of the question, of course. Therefore, a fully justified money that goes for a very clear purpose. It's just for Jadrolini I mean somewhere between 300 and 400 million kunas. I don't know exactly the amount now, but I know it's a very respectable amount. The second part of this transport subsidy is for rail transport. You know our railroads aren't in good shape, we're trying to fix it. As Government, we started that construction of 22 new trains to connect here, mainly in continental Croatia, those of our places. But it is also very much invested in infrastructure and, of course, we are using EU funds to a growing extent. And I hope for a future period even more. Why railway subsidies? It's because there are certain lines that are not worth it in any way. Now that difference between a cost-effective and invaluable one is covering the state and our citizens need to know that. Thus, there goes the next few hundred million kunas, which quite justifiably go for that purpose. The third big item or perhaps bigger than the one I mentioned was agriculture of course, but now I don't mention agriculture especially because a fellow State Secretary Tufekčić said that agriculture is not in this new system of recording state aid. But it is an extremely important area for Croatia, for Slavonia. Someone mentioned that story earlier. Therefore, the entire range of agricultural simply products in Croatia is still not at that competitive level to compete with cheap imports from Spain, from which France and other countries we import these agricultural products from. And without subsidies, agriculture would be even less competitive, they couldn't produce at all. That's what our people know about, that's what they need to know. This is why agricultural support exists. Next thing you know, shipbuilding. Here was mentioned today, my colleague Bulj mentioned something. Of course, one part I agreed with him, but, of course, in one part, I couldn't agree with him. The other day, a headline in a newspaper that I was very proud of in some way because we were the government that did that part of the job final. He says: "The Renaissance of Croatian shipbuilding". The Institute of Public Finance completed its analysis of the situation several months ago and better put forward the dynamics of the development of Croatian shipbuilding where with the same conclusion, "Privatisation and restructuring, this last restructuring that our government carried out contributed primarily to the survival, survival of shipbuilding and preservation of a part of the job". Not all of them, unfortunately, but part of it. And it's also now being shown through the books of orders and everything these people do in shipyards actually that this shipbuilding is going forward. Just reminding you, Germany in particular, Poland has completely lost shipbuilding when it has adopted certain hard EU laws on competition and support and only the future after the completion of this restructuring process, which has been defined for five years with state aid to ensure that this all comes together, so in the future these shipyards will function without state support. They have to work like that because these are some rules that we adopted the moment we joined the EU. However, there is one more thing to know, this does not mean that in the end the state is completely raising its hands from shipbuilding and that I want to tell everyone in particular to people living in shipbuilding and shipbuilding. No, after we were assured by many that the state can no longer help in terms of financing or issuing guarantees to shipbuilding we have come in direct contact with the European Commission to model and solve model problems, the country's transport towards shipbuilding in terms of its financing even in this period since we have accepted strict European rules. And today, our largest shipbuilding sites with a state guarantee according to a special model are in debt, before they finance their production because it is a very complex and very demanding financing process where you have to start with some small advance from the buyer of the ship. So a very serious job and we managed to sort it out as a government. And since then, in fact, these shipyards are even better and easier to operate especially the Oily One stands out, and you know, the Uljanik has also taken over the Rijeka 3rd of May. And it certainly is one of the leading shipyards with a book of orders of over a billion euros, so over 7.8 billion kunas of books ordered by that shipyard today. So someone should have done it. And if you cross everything else I will again remain satisfied because the government, our government has taken this very important step in the process of preserving the shipyards that have all been slowly crossed. Furthermore, there is also incentives and subsidies for employment. So who'd be smart against it? So only with that professional training program around 75 thousand young people in Croatia managed to do that year's internship, and about 60% of them stayed at the workplace after a year in those companies where they volunteered actually worked for some small fee of 2,400 kuna. Are you against these subsidies? Of course not. It's something that must be in the structure of a story like this. Next, we have more of the key things in this structure, regional support, what I was saying at the beginning. So we have to help less developed areas of Croatia, and therefore we have the Ministry of Regional Development that has its own programmes and in these programmes has defined or categorized the areas to the first, second, third, I don't know the group, and according to these criteria of underdevelopment gives easier resources to units of local self-government for infrastructure projects, for water, for schools, for children's playgrounds, kindergartens, parks and all things, so that the quality of life there is at least as close as that in urban areas in cities. And even some cities are covered there. So we started special programs after the war affected areas for Knin, Petrinja, Beli Manastir, Benkovac and read a series of other places where we help them by special programs because they really deserve that help, etc. And now that you're looking at the value further, there are two other items, these are a little entrepreneurship that unfortunately in the structure at least one that is available publicly falling into support. I would like more funds to go to small entrepreneurship and craftsmanship, and to spend less on those critical sectors where large companies called firms are in difficulty, and those firms in difficulty and EU rules have the right to state support, but what they say once and never again. It's also the situation with our shipbuilding, so this was the last attempt to help them survive, we did it, and here's fortunately things are going relatively well. Why do I say it relatively? Because some are going very well, and some others are getting a little stuck up, but in the middle of the day here they are, they're doing, they're having some errands, and the whole story is going on. So I would like the share of support for small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts to be slightly higher, especially in a part of research and money called so-called so-called. horizontal support where indeed then and some equality in approach to it must be entirely, entirely based on clear criteria and excellence to say so. So whoever's more capable, who's got a better background who's got a better history, who's proven himself already and knows what he's doing, that's gonna make it easier to get the funds, not to throw away someone where those funds won't fertilize. And there is actually a task of state institutions, agencies and others, in that sense, discretionaryly targeting policies towards those where their effect will be greatest. And when it comes to the effect I'm a little bit saddened by all of these things being said here in the Parliament today, the sensitivity in that part of the distribution of support, which is going to be, say, the support of a small value thrown out of this impact analysis. I don't know why. Is that a provision of the European Commission I don't know either. You can answer that for me. But I would love it if the effects were estimated to assess the effects and great support, but also the support of small value, I think it would be fair precisely for these sensitive issues that colleagues and colleagues have been asking here today. And finally, one huge item in these 6.5 million kunas mentioned earlier refers to something that I don't actually know how they are even classified as state aid. I'd say it's more support to the citizens of the state, if I'm right, and that's a TV subscription. It's not? Yeah? Yeah, a billion and 200 look over there. A billion and 200 RTV subscriptions enters the total amount of state aid free of charge. So it just doesn't have room for me because here's the reverse situation that citizens are supporting an institution that is conditionally inefficient, which spends money. I don't know what the effects of that spending are, and it's been a lot of times here in this assembly whether citizens have to pay those 80 or 60 or 40 kuna for that TV subscription compared to what they get from that institution. Here's what I've been using my time to give some of the citizens a taste of what's in that state support structure. So, it's not some kind of black box where you can't see anything, where you're stocking it anyway. These are very serious money that goes for serious purposes for the quality of life of our citizens and those more endangered and citizens and businesses and people who work in these companies. And is there a problem? There's always a problem with spending that money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31121	I thank the esteemed Professor Branko Greek for this debate. Once again, my personal apology for skipping you, even though I had it on the replica list. We have several replicas on this debate. The first came from a respected colleague, Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31122	Dear fellow Greek, here you have initially pointed out the word discretion that Croatian lexicon, dictionary defines as a limit and measure to which one should go to see something other than other explanations. Well, I was just thinking about that border that was crossed in Croatia. Not that ear in the ear, four eyes, closed door. But discretion exists before defining certain regulations. Then, of course, when she's fitting in, no one needs to be special about it. So that's what I meant and it's certain that this discretionism means that it's used in a bad one. But on the other hand, when you talk about shipbuilding, I agree with you and it is good that you made it to save the shipbuilding because it is one of the skills that Croatia must preserve, because otherwise we will not know anything about it. But I'd be even more pleased if you were the money and the loans you took to rehabilitate the shipbuilding, if you hadn't taken them with five, six percent, but with one percent, and you know as a professor of economics as well as I do that since 2008 it was possible and we would have saved a huge amount of money, because it's billions. And other state support could also approve subsidies to some other sectors, and therefore, there was made one sign of failure. But I welcome what shipbuilding means saved. But let me just look at the employment program for a little while. Well, see, that doesn't seem like a good measure. At first sight, yes. For 2400 kunas after a year rarely anyone remains, it is not worthy of one young man. And the other thing, by so many and so many thousands, they were shrinking at the employment bureaus of a number of people. Therefore, we deleted them from the unemployment records. So, about a good measure. I think the money that was taken to subsidize it, and there's huge interest paid. Unfortunately, therefore, at first sight a good measure, but essentially only one cosmetic procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31123	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for his replica. The answer of the esteemed Greek colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31124	My colleague Lovrinović, so as far as this is concerned about these young people of ours, I said just before in the presentation, 60% of the data. I'm saying what the data is relevant. 60% of them remained after that year working in companies. It's a circus between 45 and 50,000 young people mostly, highly educated and less than that. But the effect has certainly been achieved in that part. As far as this shipbuilding funding is concerned, I must tell you that what I mentioned at the pay phone is crucial. If it hadn't been for this new model where the state can still help shipyards in a certain way and guarantee their funding and borrowing and financing, then those 5% interest loans would not have happened either. That's what I'm trying to tell you. Unfortunately, therefore, the conditions of funding are what they are. Do you, therefore, insist on promoting whether or not the state could have indirectly helped shipyards through the monetary sector and banking sector? It's a different story. But I want to tell you when the state's responsibility is at stake then we've actually done a big job in that part, and that means we've secured an additional guarantee that they can even get the funds to pre-financing these projects of theirs. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31125	I thank my dear fellow Greek for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Greek, you mentioned railways in your presentation. When we talk about support and when we talk about such measures, then it is equally necessary to see it and I repeat it once again, which is state policy. So, if it's a state policy to solve some of the rails in traffic, and I'm convinced it should be, that's what we started, we didn't do it all the way, and we can absolutely say that we have a sin. However, all EU countries are developing a rail network not only because of freight traffic, but also because of passenger traffic. But then construction develops from the railway network, but every other industry that uses it develops. And then that support makes sense. So what we should see when we have the support to know what we are working for, to see what Croatia has in the future. So if they're supporting tourism, then they're food support. From the development of tourism, you can see it in some kind of wood sector, and you can see it in the wood industry. So it's not just the final product, it's everything. And what should be insisted in the future on one side somehow with a pot of fire, because you help people directly. However, what is the meaning of support and what should naturally be the Ministry of Finance sees only this financial part. But that is why there is the Government's Economic Coordination, so there is this economic sector that should see together what policies they are and where they are the policies of the country and where the country is developing and what industry it is developing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31127	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark-Taritash, on the replica. The answer of the esteemed Greek colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31128	Mr. Vice President, if I were to agree mostly with what Anka said, there's no dilemma at all. My only excuse is if I can say so to all those people who are in this process of restructuring the Croatian Railways, who was necessary, absolutely because it is something that will have to continue in the term of this Government because it is not the end. So, an apology to all those people who lost their lines. So some lines had to be reduced because it was the only way to save in the Croatian railways and to reduce this level of subsidies that, unfortunately, would have to continue to be reduced. But that is why it is, on the other hand, about modernising and reducing unit costs in order to reduce the total costs of subsidies of one of the sectors that I say is very necessary for our citizens, and for the economy, what Anka was talking about. And on the other hand, it's very expensive or rather inefficient at this point. And improving the infrastructure and investing in the rolling stock is something that must contribute to the whole story. So we're on a continuous shift. We have to change, we have to develop in front of the government that's now continuing that story about the railroad, but not just about the railroads. This government has not opened up at all or I don't know why it doesn't even mention the public question, the public question of Croatian highways. You know from our last attempt to start solving this problem by monetizing the highway no one else, nor Oreshkovic's government, nor does this government mention it at all, and 25 billion kunas of debt for Croatian highways remain. Therefore, as an opposition, we are now waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31129	I thank my dear fellow Greek for his reply. The next call came through, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31130	Thank you. Dear Greek, you have shown subsidies, i.e. support to go for the most transport, you also told the boater Jadrolini. And of course you need to be supported mainly because of island transport where people are essentially separated from land and where you should work on it. However, the fact is that this Jadrolinia now has a market game that we have allowed foreign shipowners to come to the domestic market, so this support will need to be even bigger, and we did not protect it well in the negotiations pre-accession with the European Union, to preserve at least a number of years of what other countries have used our shipowners, that there is a monopoly in this area or why? Is a billion kuna traffic, somewhere around a billion kuna has Jadrolini with Jadrolini showing up, it will be mostly summer, where there will be a collapse of Jadrolinia as well as so far where competition will reduce the price and there is a great danger of the collapse of Jadrolinia. And that's what we need to protect and subsidize. You also said transportation. Yeah, well, it's strange to say that subsidizing the transportation of students in certain areas we have local self-governments where they have money, subsidize entirely, and somewhere they don't, where poor neighborhoods don't have subsidization. It's unfair support, unfair, absolutely unfair. They've got a ride somewhere within three miles, and they don't have one anywhere. In rich areas, they have subsidized textbooks such as in Zagreb textbooks are free of charge in other rich cities, while in other areas where they are poor, where you have abolished your Law on Regional Development of assisted areas such as 35 cities and municipalities in the third group in 2014. Of course, this government hasn't fixed it yet, and that's why I didn't even vote for this budget, because it was a promise to make it right. And the government of Jadranka Kosor brought indexation, and you simply accepted. And those towns of the mountain cotter, like And you brought the Dalmatian burns to the bottom. [[Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague Bulj.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31131	On the replica, please watch your time. Answer, dear colleague Branko Grcic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I generally agree with you on most of these issues. It's just that you and I always get into a misunderstanding when it comes to mountain-mounted areas. So, as you well know, but you always play that political game a little bit on the subject. We've, uh, introduced a new system. Through this system is the 100 municipalities that have never been in any support system entered the system. And of course, whoever gets something shut up and uses it and doesn't have it, doesn't answer. And then about 60 units came out of the system and they were very unhappy. I totally understand that. But we didn't stop there, we didn't stop like the government here. I did what I promised. We had a meeting at the president's office upstairs, we had a later meeting with all the mayors and mayors from the mountain and mountainous areas of our region and agreed on four measures that we would apply. Of these four measures, I managed to solve the most important one before the election, and that is the increased part of those income tax units, and I solved it. But the new government that came, Oreshkovic, did not resolve a minimum of 40 million kuna for those units of local self-government through the State Budget Implementation Act. The second measure is an increased share in the forest contribution. And the third measure is the maintenance of roads that the state should pay for all those units. Since they are in hilly areas where the snow of winter represents a serious restriction on life and reduces the quality of life, we also envisioned funding. So, neither Oreshkovic's government, and this one in the last three months, unfortunately, has brought it to an end. And that's why I don't want any more responsibility for those three things. I took care of the first one, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31133	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague, Greek. Next, a distinguished colleague, Željko Jovanovic, appears after the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As well as many colleagues today mentioned one word that is extremely important, which is transparency, so I also use your debate, and that once again from this place to all of us, and also to the general public in Croatia, I say that, unfortunately, after 2016, according to the 2015 Corruption Perception Index, for the first time in history, we left the circle of corrupt countries with 51 points. This year, we fell by two points, and out of 176 countries, we are in 55th place with 51 points. So the border that the country is not considered corrupt is 50 points. Therefore, every register, including the register of these state aid subsidies, is something that is necessary because each point on a scale of corrupt countries reduces the flow of capital in the country and in fact creates serious problems for EU funds that we can use because any doubt about corruption in Croatia will mean that we will have less resources available. So I'm warning you of this trend, so after finally we've come out of a circle of corrupt countries, we're back in that circle, and I'm afraid that this trend will not go in the right direction in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31135	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his replica. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31136	Thank you, Vice President. My friend Greek, you mentioned the railroads. I don't know if you know the railroads before the war and the railroad today. The speed used to be from Zagreb to Novska 130, now 60. It used to travel to Vinkovac in 2.30, and now we travel in four hours. So I wonder what's been done on those railroads that we've improved? We know that from Slavonski Brod to Tovarnik we have made a rapid railway but this disgrace from Zagreb to Novska with 60km/h, and so many billions are pumping hundreds of millions into the railways, and in fact we have nothing. You say you made 26 new trains. It's nice to see that, but I often use railways, I would show you a picture and I almost came here where the frozen glass inside and the snow fell on the train when I traveled from Zagreb to Vinkovci, returning from Frankfurt. One more question. Is it possible for the 2013 report to be delivered today after almost three years? In modern-day technology that citizens should see in five, six months, without saying every year, so I just don't get it. I know it's invested in the Ship House Station and a little something in the Vinkovci, but it's not an improvement in the railroad. We have on the railways 100 unions, 36 professionals and those other salaries from 10 to 15 and 7 to 11 thousand kuna. If it's an improvement, it's an honor. I don't just see that the railway is a special improvement, especially a disgrace from Zagreb to Novska. And the Zagreb Station not to talk, it's a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31137	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of the Greeks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Misic's process of rebuilding the railways takes place and that's not something. Well, it's a huge infrastructure, so it's billions of kunas to invest there. I mean, you can't obviously do that overnight, and something's done. So you yourself said from Slavonski Brod all the way to Tovarnika, right, everything was completely restored. This stock from Long Sela to Novska has actually fallen into one problem, it has been a year and a half seem to me for days, and it is with an Italian performer where a legal dispute takes place as far as I know, now I don't know details it's not my portfolio, but as far as I know there's a legal dispute where simple works on that project have stopped. And apparently neither SAFU is our agency nor the people who run it at the Department of Transport are going to cut it off. It's a proud knot. Remember this situation with Long Selo-Krysevci, we've had a three-time drop in the contest. So we were legal and absolutely transparent. Three times, for certain reasons, a tender for the construction of that railroad fell. Fortunately, here it is now being built and I hope that it will continue to be built, that it will be made. So with this direction towards Rijeka, projects and certain competitions have been made for the production of project documentation, it has been given to some consortium parties because they were probably more competitive and this and that, they're working on it. The average time of preparation of the project documentation is somewhere between 3.5 and 4 years. These are all the contracts that we have agreed and which probably end in a year or a year when these contracts for the performance of works and mostly EU funds are due now or in this year, so we even have money. We're waiting for projects, and here's a colleague of Tufekcic's working there at the Department of Transport, and I'm sure he knows better what I'm saying. That's it, so it's one process that lasts, you can't do it overnight. And the speed is increasing, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31139	I thank my dear fellow Greek for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31140	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Greek. In your debate above all, you pointed out that the unquestionable adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Support Act is precisely because it aims at transparency and I am glad that we are all here today in the assembly on that trail unique. So transparency never too much. What you further mentioned in your discussion is that you would actually like more support for small and medium-sized enterprises. I couldn't agree more with you. I'd be so happy if it was much more. And I think our fellow citizens, too, especially small farmers, small and medium-sized craftsmen, would like it to have been more so even at the time of your government that we witnessed that it wasn't so. And precisely because the tender itself especially in the award of support in agriculture did not stand a chance precisely because of the criteria in the competition that were the way they were, that if the large ones came forward they had no chance at all. And there was similar support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And I think it's precisely the problem when reporting to a tender that most of our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are also not often able to do all the documentation they need and that they should be helped, that they should have structures that could be there for them and I believe this government will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31141	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac on the line. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31142	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Greeks, so I didn't shut up then and thank you again while you were the minister of 100 local self-government units in the Slavonia area received assistance. In my county I think it's 6 units of local self-government not only to help through support, but even through tax returns and all that people could use. What little remained is that imbalance between the PPDS and the first group there was little problem, since the PPDS remained under the provisions of the applicable law however in a certain advantage. So when the family home was renovated, the first group could not use what the PPDS could. As regards general support, it is important in this country that strategies are respected. If they are not made, and when there are, they are respected and supported. You mentioned 30 billion kuna shipyards. Shipyards are on their feet. Order books are full, however, there are few dives of the ship. Now we have a problem with our welders going to Italy and getting higher wages there. This is all part of the fact that even though we give and in agriculture we have to control them. And when we mention small and medium enterprises and crafts especially in terms of innovation and new technologies, support was enough. But what is the problem? The problem is the implementation and conditions they had to respect. So let's say if you have it it'll probably be a theme tomorrow at the Parliament, if you have an entrepreneur, so someone tells him you have to, you have a fall in income, and in those two years you can't fire anyone, so you can use that support. That's bad, because that man can't do it, he can't respect it, and he won't get that support. It's the same thing as interpreting certain provisions on the number of employees, so then you don't know what rule to call on anymore. And in the end, I don't agree that the state should end up financing the one and helping the craftsmen. It is also about the county, the development agencies of cities and municipalities that must stop and even set up funds to help all those craftsmen in their participation in the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31143	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for the replica. We're moving on to the next debate individually. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the Support Act and what's being proposed here, like all MPs, I can only be in favour and ask that we move on as much as possible in transparency as possible with regard to the demonstration of support. But what is more important is that we go towards the efficiency of the support and the greater impact of the state's support on the Croatian economy, on GDP, on what will enable new jobs, new exports, new growth of industrial production and everything that we need in Croatia. There has been a lot of talk here about how much these support are and about 2 and a half percent of GDP is in Croatia, meaning some 9 billion kuna depending on the year-to-year. And the ratio that is within these support, which we share in those sectoral, vertical and horizontal support in Croatia, is not the most favourable. So we share 70% of the support sectorally still in Croatia, and these are the support in which a little more has been said by fellow Greeks regarding transport, railways, shipbuilding, steel. It means some traditional things that the state supports and which may not have such a significant impact on the economy and on GDP growth and employment, but certainly have one effect that speaks about the quality of life of our citizens, i.e. it is very difficult to expect that anyone will ever go with it to disable the way our people live and especially how our country has developed and with many islands and with many unfortunately undeveloped parts of Croatia to abolish support for transport, i.e. for transport. We will certainly not allow our fellow citizens to lack the quality of life on islands as they do today, that is, to reduce that standard. In my opinion, too, there is even more to be done to make people more able to improve the quality of life on Croatian islands. What many do not understand in the Republic of Croatia is supporting horizontal support that affects not only employment, export growth, production growth, but also long-term support for, for example, environmental protection, which means I would say not only current employment. Because quite often, employment is a small, but quality of life, i.e. the cost that we will have in the future, and they are related to environmental protection and the reduction of environmental pollution that will enable the quality of life of our citizens are immeasurable, and on this side we have in recent years given the most support just and in the protection of the environment, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who do so. Also funding support, with HBOR or with interest subsidies through business banks that we also give to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that make possible, I would say something more competitive about our entrepreneurs and this is seen in recent years as to how small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have actually made a step and how important it is, in fact, what we have done and what the state should do in the future. What we haven't been paying too much attention to is research and development and Croatia is still too little of an exemption for research and development. This is below 1% of GDP, our goal is 2% of GDP. And on this side, just the latest EU funds support is related to research and development, and there is a need to invest as much as possible to make our entrepreneurs more competitive and position themselves better on the international market. What is not good is not good I said in the ratio between still sectoral, vertical and horizontal support that in Croatia 70:30 in favour of sectoral support while in the EU this ratio is vice versa 30:70. The question is whether we can make that step and whether we can free more money, and probably with the suspension of shipbuilding in the coming years, we can spend more money on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. What decommissioning from the budget, or support, can reduce is misunderstanding and poor policy-making from the state level. Unfortunately, we have seen something that will undo all the impact perhaps and support that we are pulling from the EU in the coming years, which is announced a 6% power collection from the Ministry of Energy. I'm going to remind you now that at the level of the year it's about 5 hundred million kuna more cost for our entrepreneurs and possible and citizens. Because yesterday we didn't see the decidated statement by Minister Dobrovic. He also announces the collection of electricity for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, however, he still doesn't know how much. He speaks flat-rate 4, 5, 6% as if it were several kunas, not hundreds and thousands of kunas, for our citizens and entrepreneurs. And the question arises why would electricity even add to our entrepreneurs and thus reduce the quality and value of the support that our state budget entrepreneurs receive. We all know that HEP has two billion kunas to get a year. There was something going on with my colleague Bulj's numbers in the morning a billion, a billion and something for renewable energy sources. As far as I know, a billion is less than two billion kuna. And the question is why HEP can't cope with this price surge and why it has to burden the economy and why it has to burden the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this year only for a month and a half after the prime minister said clearly in his non-coordination with the Most that the electricity won't collect. So we have a situation a month and a half ago that the power won't pick up. Today we have a situation that will go 6% up. And that is how I said this growth in horizontal support for the coming years de facto cancel and even more burden the Croatian economy. It's just being asked, of course, if this is about intent. Of course the price of HEP to sell it can be that too. So 6% of income growth could be one good thing for what is done now in secret, which is the sale of HEP. And I would like to try to make it possible for the economy as low as possible, for the citizens as possible, and in fact, it is the opposite, and I am very skeptical of the possibility that we can make up for it in the coming years with the support available to us and which are being withdrawn from EU funds, and they are really big. Only for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are working around 2 billion euros annually by 2020. These years are expected, so this year and next and in 2019 most of that money and I am convinced that this will help our companies a lot if there is no of course this I would say bad action from the political level that is now coming through the rise in the price of electricity. Today, however, Minister Dobrovic said the VAT was down from 25% to 10%. Oh, no? The gentleman doesn't know that it's actually 13% of VAT on electricity, not 10. But well, that's a little bit more I'd say non-disclosure in that part. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31145	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for this debate. This is what we're done with the individual discussion. We continue with the replica of Mr. Nenad Stazic behind the break I set until 15.00 hours. Thank you very much. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31146	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] I apologize for the little delay. Representative Miro Bulj has applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Secretary of State. Here's state support will be posted on the web site. These aids and the register to be published on all aid recipients are certainly a positive shift, but the support provided by the State and subsidies so far have not been recorded and we do not know the results. We see the results of all these support. So just before, my colleague Maras highlighted the problem of power collection. Well, just at those times when my colleague Maras was, I didn't get a chance to talk, so I'll start with that, give the replica in time, renewable energy sources, that's. The wind in 2014 was precisely in the government where fellow Maras was made a decision where incentives were given for renewable wind sources of 90 lip for one kilowatt, while on the market 25 limes for one kilowatt. Even today in this situation in 2017, the government, which was also a colleague of Maras, has to provide the Croatian state with 1.1 billion kuna in the budget. And of course we'll find a solution and, of course, I'm correcting the truth that electricity will collect. They won't collect electricity, but you've raised your hand for wind power plants, wind power parks where former employees of the high-ranking hep projects, where they built wind power plants based on projects and wind roses that were examined in HEP. These projects. Today, the Croatian State in 2017 and in the budget must ensure that citizens are paid into the budget of 1.1 billion kuna. In the budget of 2018, 1.1.5 billion kuna, and in 2019, the basis of your decision in the state register must provide 1.6 billion kuna, which means a total of around 4 billion kuna in 4 years will be given on the basis of the incentives made during the government of Zoran Milanovic, where Minister Vrdoljak was then made for the economy. This is a damage done to Croatian citizens only on aids where our citizens' pockets go to foreign investors 4 billion kuna. But he won't collect, there will be a solution, he will find a minister's solution and today he made that statement. And all the time, that story about these support that we will have in the future, the Ministry of Finance will obviously have problems finding those funds if it is not on the burden of our citizens. I hope that you will find that solution and that you will be able to correct that decision as well as many other decisions. As for the revision of state aid itself, without reviewing all state support by observing today, here you are saying that it does not relate later I will read, on agriculture. Only in agriculture how many incentives have been allocated i.e. State aid, only for orchards, for fruit, Croatia would be an entire orchard, and it is not. Who'd the support go to? Today we have a problem that we have been providing support companies, so here we see the problem of Agrokor which is subsidized by state resources and today foreign banks can become very easily owners. This includes agricultural land and resources, concessions and many other things that Croatian citizens paid for from the budget. That is why it is very important to have a register but also those who have received support and the results of these support so far. Do we have results? We don't. So in dairy production in the last five years, five billion kunas of direct support in the dairy production of state. With 64 thousand dairy producers, we came to 4,600 dairy producers and in the rapid fall, and we do not have 30 percent of the market for Croatian milk. Who's responsible for that? Where the support to banks and banks are also financed by the State's capital support, they were purchased for less funds than they were capitalised on. Sports and sports are examples of subsidies. That sport subsidize for children, for infrastructure mainly in areas where we don't have sports infrastructures where children can't deal, so now we're going to subsidize the halls that are made for handball, a billion kunas a year are damages for the halls that were built for the handball championship, a billion kunas a year now at this point. He has a problem with this Zagreb, let's say he has capacities, the Split hall of the city is a burden all over the region is a burden, the whole region. There is a possibility that because of these support provided today, the city of Split is blocked by an account if the huge money is set aside for what the support was given, and so much in the sport are the support these were the last... in Croatian sport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because in areas where we have opportunities to develop sport, where we have children where they don't have, so they simply don't have conditions, there's no infrastructure. That money was thrown into the wind so someone could build their own monuments. So we're looking here, we're talking about, and that's the fact that under the pressure of various lobbyist influences, the networks of state intervention have become more complex and, of course, these lobbyists, and support themselves naturally via their political counterparts. Well, here's the kind of support. Direct subsidies from the state budget. The largest individual users are Croatian railways that are subsidized by a billion and 286 million kuna. How are the Croatian railways? That's what I'm talking about. What will happen, will we also subsidise the Airport where the French concessionist, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, where he is a French concessionary of losses, a reduced turnover will be subsidized by the state. The State subsidises a foreign concessionaire if they are losses. I think he'll remember the same colleagues that were in the government at the time I didn't hear their voice. It is good that employment is encouraged, but the results of all these subsidies therefore need not the current register now and in the future, but the register and responsibility of all these incentives, audits. Because no one is responsible for all these incentives, and this is the key problem of Croatian society, which is what the incentives are given based on lobbying various lobbyists who took the incentive to who knows where. In their pockets or on foreign accounts. Only energy when we look around renewable energy sources is a crime of unremembered proportions. And I'm really asking these ministers who are also fellow MPs who voted yes, because they are aware of what they did at that time. Why didn't they say that Croatian citizens will have to pay foreign investors in their pocket a year, three times more expensive electricity per kilowatt than under normal market conditions. Yeah, that's what organized mob did. I didn't hear voices at the time, or the rumbling. Wherever we bury state support is catastrophic. As regards regional development It's an even bigger problem, but here's the time. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] I'll have a chance in the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31148	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31149	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. In your debate, you mentioned all the injustices and illogical things that had happened since the 1990s, not naming who was responsible, but you wondered. Oh, no? So you mentioned renewable energy sources, it's a rather complex area, which is not only a matter of subsidies and incentives, but also a question that includes the obligations of the Republic of Croatia during a certain period, which includes many things that you haven't mentioned, which started, for example, wind power plants in your area have been built since 2006, the seventh year. These people who have projects were CEOs of HEP before 2000, so you went to the wrong address. As for the price of electricity, I'm glad you're here to deny it, so you're basically the Minister of Energy in the Shadow. Because yesterday the minister said he'd collect electricity, and now you're saying he won't. I want to believe you. So, cancel Mr. Dobrovic's decision if you can, and I believe that since you came here with great authority and said that the minister doesn't know what he's saying and that what he said isn't true that it won't happen. So thank you for now repealing Minister Dobrović's decision. The citizens will appreciate it, and I'd like you to react that way every time someone from MOST gets sidetracked, then Mr. Bull comes and saves the day. That would be good, and I support that happening in the future. Thank you for that on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31150	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31151	Comrade Maras, while you were in government when you raised your hand for these incentives for renewables, for wind, for wind power plants. Do you know there's 25 lip prices on the market for one kilowatt, and the incentive is 23 times more expensive to pay to a foreign investor, which the citizens will pay out of their pocket. Are you at least a little embarrassed? It'd be me. You didn't answer. I'd be ashamed if you had to charge a billion kuna, 1.1 billion in this year you'd have to find budget funds or citizens' pockets. But Minister Dobrovic and Secretary Cikotic today have denied that they will find a solution along with the Ministry of Finance in total so as not to burden the citizens. In 2018, your decision and your silence will cost 1.5 billion kuna, 1 and a half billion, and 2019. 1.6 billion kuna. And you've raised your hand for it in the government or maybe you haven't. Disabling me. You weren't at the government? Were you a mess at work or something? Well, that was brought during your government, these incentives for wind power plants. So you've burdened the citizens with five billion kunas in four years, in three years next year with this meaning. Do you know what you've done? Do you know how many schools that is? How many kindergartens is that? How many jobs is that? You add that amount up so we can talk about it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31152	Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31153	Thank you, Mr. Petrov, the chairman. Well, I'd like to say that listening to Mr. Bulj's exposure, I can't help but think that Mr. Bulj has really recognized all these problems that I recognize, especially with concessions where profit is private and potential loss is public. Or let's say we import foreign milk. He asked why we import 70% of the milk, as much as we already do. This is because import milk is cheaper, because exchange rate policy is such that artificial import goods are made cheaper and in fact the entire Croatian village is buried in that case. And what's the biggest tragedy in the whole story is that a general state cannot be blamed for just one party. Unfortunately, I won't say the same, but both major parties are responsible. And I call on both Mr Bulj and his colleagues from MOST to simply say no more about it, to say stop and to stop supporting that policy not only us but also you, or to ask the ruling majority, or HDZ to say these harmful concession contracts are annulled for, say, Zagreb Airport and to stop this cruel cycle of now enjoying and selling the country because otherwise we are all going to be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31154	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31155	So the Croatian state will repeat state support for five billion kunas in the last six years for dairy production. And at that moment before these incentives were 64,000 dairy producers, and now we have 4600 dairy producers and decreased somewhere from 60% of domestic production to 30% at this point. Where's the money? Now we have a problem that incentives were most raised by those who were in debt with foreign banks, who are owners and agricultural land and who have various concerts such as Agrokor which is how I read in the problem. And they all gave him support, money that was meant for the poor, the O.P.G. It's no longer a problem to buy cattle, it's going to be the least trouble to buy cattle, cows, dairy than the problem is there's no one to look after them. They invested billions in farms, invited themselves to farms in Slavonia. You know who's staying? No, they're empty farms where billions of kuna are invested. Put your money in, raise your loans. The banks were raising money. Banks from the state budget also subsidized, and for less, they were sold than what they had a subsidy. It's a crime. Foreigners make us money in the wind, strangers. A billion and a hundred million kunas based on the decision of our esteemed colleague Maras and this government, a billion and 100 million kunas this year, we need to secure the funds. A billion and a half years, and in 2019, a billion and 600. That's true. You should have been loud, Maras, pal. He was supposed to be our colleague, but he wasn't. I'm sorry. I hope he'll be louder in the future if he's a minister again. Because he was still the best minister. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31156	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31157	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bull, you have touched a very important topic in your debate. For example, you mentioned agriculture, I personally saw such orchards where there are more actions. You know what fruitcake is? These people receive regular support and these are support for organic farming and amounts, these are very high amounts compared to other species. What is very important is that we have here and in the legal solutions, one group is the control itself to grant state aid and there are quite rigorous especially in sublegal acts, where often individual support is inconclusive in practice due to a number of circumstances. However, another problem is self-control or an analysis of the effectiveness of the support. It shall not, of course, rejoice in that regard and amend Article 4(7) where small-value support is also deleted. I see that in the public debate there was an objection to that. The simple ministry has explained that it is difficult to analyse, in fact, and the point is that the effectiveness of support and support in agriculture is analysed especially because then inspection supervision actually doesn't make sense either. The question of how many field inspectors themselves have the possibility of such control, so it would not happen that today's minister, the former mayor who explicitly controlled measure 4.1 there saw that his, in Slavonia, it was called the Punac, got such support or it happened that the businessman who, according to his testimony, had a large tax debt after some time received support in the economy and made significant progress in his company. For these very reasons transparency, and what is the goal and this law, transparency is very important, control is very important because it makes people feel that they are actually supporting legal corruption activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31158	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31159	Well, I agree with you, but there will be a register now, which means transparency. But now that we've destroyed all the support, when the support has been collected, but we don't see it, it means the results of all the support we've received so far. We said in dairy production. I know when it was entering the EU and when it was voted in the referendum and here unanimously in parliament, that they said it would bloom, that the effects were incredible. That the Croatian peasant will stay, be a rich peasant. I didn't think it would be like that at the time, because I had no argument against it. We were unanimously assured here in Parliament, I remember that. At the time, I was an ordinary citizen. I wasn't a representative in the Parliament. Through the fog they threw the smoke screen lobbyists lobbyed for these support that became then hard, cognitive, and lobbyist groups along with political elites. And that money's been sucked out. What is the result for Croatian peasants? What's the result of the promotion in traffic, of traffic? Jadrolini, I agree we should encourage if we should have islands. However, what kind of state support is it if only the rich environments have free transportation of students, and the environments that are underdeveloped do not have or free subsidies from textbooks of local self-government for elementary schoolers where the rich environments are subsidized, where undeveloped cannot, where there is greater unemployment, where parents are not able. The injustice of pain. If this is the EU, if that's how it got into the EU, if sovereignty is lost in this way, then it's been a lie and a betrayal of national interests. Are we left empty territory because of these Croatian decisions? [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31160	Representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31161	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleague Bulj, among other things you spoke of obtaining support thanks to various political influences. Well, that's a lot to talk about in the last few days amongst the firemen. Namely, the Sinj Public Fire Department should receive 2 million and 200 thousand kuna according to the government's plan and therefore a number of other public fire departments will receive significantly less funds. For example. The Public Fire Department of Vodice, which was formed in 2012, will receive a million and 700 thousand kuna and almost so much funding we must plan our own budget. Unlike the Sinj Public Fire Department, which will receive 2 million and 200 thousand from the state, and in the budget of the city of Sinj, no kuna is planned for these needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31162	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31163	Otherwise, this is a very nice question. For example, in Sibenik-Knin County you have Knin, Vodice, Drnis, Split-Dalmatia County is the largest county in Croatia. We have a cetinal area that's bigger than Lika-Senj County,... Lika-Senjska by population number, 0 kuna support. How many times are we bigger than Sibenik-Knin County, and we only have two public fire departments, and Split has the chairman of the firemen. Why does the cetin end have a population of zero kuna per head? And no, the truth is, it's a long time ago for us not to say that it's a lie, that Sinj doesn't have a million and 600 thousand kuna in his budget for the fire department, for the DVD. And it's legally and constitutionally the right of all municipalities and cities to establish a public fire department. I've been fighting for four and five years, and I'm still going to fight to keep the funds decentralised evenly distributed. Why in Zadar would there be 240 kunas per head or 400 kuna in Istria County 500 kuna per capita for fire and in the Cetina region zero kuna or Split-Dalmatia County from where the chairman of the fire department comes, Mr Sanader zero kuna or two kunas. Is that injustice? It's an injustice and it's a disaster. Lika-Senj County and when you were in power, ma'am, and before that, there was a completely different support. The Cetina province has 50,000 inhabitants and it deserves a public fire unit and it's much bigger than you're saying now. See how many Istrian County, 10 public fire departments and see how many per capita. And it's an injustice only to be corrected and so it will continue to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31164	I ask the esteemed representatives and MPs to be patient and refrain from further comments. We're continuing the debate. Representative Bulj, I'd like a representative, please. A representative of Nenad Stazic reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31165	Thank you, Mr. President. Right at the beginning my support for this State Support Act. Transparency never enough. Controls too. Here we introduce some EU directives that are good and useful. What do you want to achieve with support in the first place? So he wants to protect himself from the game. It can't all happen as a game of competition, it can't market everything because some parts of the company on the market would just collapse. The State must also protect those who cannot operate in market terms in the interests of those interests that can be assessed as national interests. So let's say if we were talking about milking, here's a colleague of Bully's talking a lot about it. If we had 46 or 64 thousand dairy producers today there are 4000 and 600 of them. I expect this government to bring the matter back to balance again, otherwise I will find Mr Bulj guilty because he is part of that parliamentary majority. So if there are no 64,000 dairy producers again, but there are 4 thousand and 600 or less, that means that the system is completely in the dairy sector under this government. So they were alive and seen. In a year's time, we'll be reviewing these figures once we evaluate the government's work. The transport to the islands, of course, must be supported because who would drive. It's lines that don't pay off, and that thing can't be left to the market. We have to care that the people on the islands stay, that they move to the islands, that they live there, that our islands are alive, and therefore we have to subsidize those lines. So now with how much, with so much, it's simply a national interest. It is the same with shipbuilding, it survived thanks to these support, otherwise we would have lost one dimension in an economy that represents a value, which employs a large number of people, which represents some value, which employs a large number of people, who gathers some industries, small producers who work for that shipbuilding. Incentive to employment, here's this government, I don't know why, some measures that turned out to be good and it's about support. Look, there was Minister Mrsic through the support system, he designed it, and 160,000 people went through it. 160 thousand young people. There are over 50 grand left to work in a permanent employment relationship. Why is this support good, and why should it not be changed but possibly strengthened but not diminished? Because every employer is looking for at least a year of experience and the man who finished school has nowhere to get that experience. Where to get it when every employer is looking for a year of experience? And now a single employment support has been invented where the state has taken over to pay the employer for these young people to gain a year's experience and that only then can it come out equally with everyone else. And thanks to this support there are 50,000 young people left in Croatia, they didn't go to Ireland, they work there, they get a flat and a working relationship, and I think it's one of the examples of how it's supposed to be quality to spend state money on state support. When working, the total amount of support in Croatia is around 9 billion kuna along with agriculture, a large amount. It is said here, many speakers that the desire and intensity of this legislative proposal and the reduction of the impact of policy on state support. It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist, it's an illusion. The state, therefore, always directly interferes with support by choosing what it wants to finance, which it wants to support regardless of the amount of kuna. So, look 9 billion is the total amount of kuna and the independent, the non-profit media were financed by 2 million and 800,000 kuna. In 9 billion 2 million and 800,000 kuna. Small money, small money. But Minister Hasanbegovic abolished it for them, abolished it for them. And that and this government and this parliamentary majority don't want to return it to the non-profit media. It's a relationship, it's a policy, it's a relationship to non-profit media, to independent journalism. Because when it is abolished, because it says to God it is saving itself, so it is not 2 million and 800,000 kunas at 9 billion. Because then it's said we don't want independent media, we don't want non-profit media, we're such a government, and we're such a parliamentary majority whose independent media is intruding. This is therefore an obvious example of how support can be acted politically and how it is impossible to avoid politics in the granting of support. On the other hand, we have HRT, a billion 390 million kuna of income, mostly from a tax that is State aid, of course treated as state aid because it was once given the right to pay the fee. The Croatian culture and Croatian film, for example, are also funded. HAVC. And that's where you see the influence of politics. So from this support, the fee is funded by a Croatian film that has achieved extraordinary results in the world in recent years. But then politics interfered, for political reasons replaced by the director, the director, said the money was distributed without the consent of the founders of the Ministry of Culture. Please, it's a state audit report. Which means the filmmakers will have to ask the culture minister what film to be financed. Well, that's what the current culture minister says is unacceptable to her, which is unacceptable because it's unacceptable to every normal person. Now, either the state audit has no idea what an independent culture means, or it's deliberately misreading the findings of a state audit to carry out a certain human resources policy, harmful. Because when we have, when we have something good and it's doing good and we're making good movies and we're proud and they're getting prizes on everyone and it's happening, so why change it now, why mess with it politically and spoil the thing that worked well? So, there's no policy of policy-free support, no more of the most ground-based policy, so if you want politics. It's an illusion, it's an illusion. But this bill will help, it will bring a little more transparency, maybe it will bring a little more control, a little more responsibility in giving that kind of money, that's a big amount, 9 billion is a big amount. And on the other hand, that law should be accepted and welcomed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31166	Representative Gordan Maras, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31167	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, at the beginning of your debate, you mentioned a decrease in the number of milkers in Croatia that it seems to me 64,000 to 4000 and 600, and you called for this information in your debate to be given by a colleague Bulj at the exposé on how a lot of incentives went into the dairy industry and milk production decreased. Although it's hard for all of us here to believe it's an incorrect piece of information, because we and Priors believe everything Mr. Bully says. There's no need to check it out, but this time it was an accident to subscribe, and I have to say here that since 2001, unfortunately, when there were 51,000 dairies, the number has dropped to 7000 in 2016. So in the 16 years in which, unfortunately, nearly 70% of milk production in the Republic of Croatia has disappeared, and that must be bad. On the other hand, you mentioned and you heard for sure, and in your debate, it was encouraged by subsidies related to wind power plants. The strategy adopted in 2009 on the basis of which it was to be provided and adopted by the HDZ government was to provide 21 billion kuna by 2020 and some years of subsidisation for wind power plants. And just the past, or previously, the government has reduced the subsidy to almost a third, and on that side it will not be necessary to allocate the money. As far as the company is concerned, you should ask people who must have that information. For example, Ministers of the Government, Mr. Maric, where the money from subsidies is because he dealt with the subsidies and finances of a company. And when MPs discuss it in the Croatian Assembly, they can ask those who are responsible, not those they would want to be responsible for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31168	I'd like to thank Agent Maras. Replica response, MP Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31169	I forgot to actually mention those unfortunate wind power plants in the debate. Look, Croatia has committed itself to the EU to obtain up to two thousand and twenty years' worth of energy from renewable sources. Croatia is not alone in this regard and other countries must invest in this. And these support went in the direction of meeting that obligation. Now, as the investor was a foreigner and was not a Croatian man, and this is not the fault of the former government nor will this government be if foreign investors continue to invest because there is simply a logic of investment. He's betting on whoever's got money and who thinks he's worth investing in. But as a state, we must support clean energy because it is our duty. And there's no talking about being favored or not befitting, it's just about meeting the obligation we've made.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31170	Representative Stazic, I would only ask that the Institute responds for replica use for this purpose rather than for an additional minute of explanation. I didn't mean to interrupt at first, but here I'd like the parliamentary representatives to stick to it. Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31171	Dear President, you have told your colleague Stazic state money, support, transparency, control, fair, purposeless. So while you're at the wind power plant, I've been on Google a little bit, says RTL news, "The wind power plant, the third part, when the state honors whether to pay the citizens?" So then it says, "The wind brings millions especially if it humbles in time in December 2013. It's time for investors in the wind power plant, Yurilo. Since the new year, the price for the purchase of such electricity has dropped from 0.71 to 0.53 kuna per kilowatt. Who does not conclude a contract with the State by the end of December, etc. CEMP director Ivan Šimić confirms daily lobbying. I don't know what they were doing internally. All I know is that I've been putting pressure on the chief of staff and the assistant minister and Minister Ivan Vrdoljak himself. This is about the CEO of the CEMP company that connects with Zoran Milanovic's brother, transparently, urgently, everything was satisfied. But since there is still time, I will also tell you about Minister Hasanbegovic who abolished those famous incentives for those films "Masakr in the Court of the Union", and then "The Last Serb in Croatia" who greets "ready, prepare the Chetniks". Thanks to HAVC and directors who were politically replaced by Mr. Hribar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31172	Agent Culey, I'd like to ask you to stick to the subject in yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31173	Mr. President, I am speaking transparently on the subject of a wind power plant that enters everything that followed after this political persecution of the Hribar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31175	There, Mr. Stazic took every opportunity to warn of Mr. Hasanbegovic's intransparency in helping non-finance non-profit media.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31176	Time's up. Thank you. I'd still like to ask Mr. Track to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31177	You obviously didn't listen to me well, or you didn't get me right. I did not say that Minister Hasanbegovic did anything intransparent, just the opposite. He transparently abolished the funding of non-profit media. More non-transparent in the world. He said I don't think that independent media should be financed from the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31178	Representative Stazic, please, here we go. I tried to warn Mr. Culey, asking you to really point yourself at the subject. There's another part of the replica he was saying, so I'd like you to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31179	And as for the wind power plants and that article, I don't know where you read it from, which portal, if you have any knowledge, even if such portal knowledge that something intransparent or illegal has been done, your duty is to file a criminal report. If you don't do it, if you don't file a criminal charges, then you're the most common slanderer and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31180	I'd like Agent Culey to refrain from commenting and use the replica institutes. He's already used them in this case. Representative Blaženko Boban answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31181	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. In your part of the debate, you mentioned him in support of employment that the law was designed by Minister Mrsic, so-called. Mrsic's law, designed by Minister Mrsic, is what I quote, so tomorrow it will be tomorrow or these days, but it will come to the agenda and we will discuss it in more detail. But to break that name once already, one hundred times repeat something to make it true, so it is neither Mrsic's law nor Mrsic came up with it. In addition to this law, half of 2010, 447 people were adopted on the basis of that law with the support of the country in 2010, and 4000 768 people in 2011 and still about 2.5 thousand to the adoption of amendments to that law, better said the new law adopted by Mrsic on that basis, which was on 31 May 2012. So, you 100 times repeat Mrsic's law, as the Greek minister says thanks to our government, is 3.1% of GDP, and it's been two years, and you repeat it a hundred times to make it clear to everyone that it is allegedly Mrssic's law. From these arguments, and hopefully through the item of the agenda that comes will be before us, we will clearly show that this is not Mrssic's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31182	Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31183	You are absolutely right, the law existed a year before Mrsic and it is likely that 426 people were employed under that law. But after the amendments to those laws passed by Minister Mrsic, 50,000 people are in a permanent working relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31184	Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Often, the issue of support is mentioned and the fact is that billions of kunas are in these support, such as In the dairy industry, it's mentioned in a few years five billion, and it's clear that this industry is collapsed, i.e. to collapse. I therefore ask you all here, not just a fellow Stazic, if it is obvious that the support system does not work or that these support cannot solve the problem that exists in agriculture, why not ask the question then which is the solution. So if we're trying and doing something and we see that that doesn't work, until when we're doing the same thing if we're witnessing that all the expensive agriculture is going down. In this system there's really no point in me explaining it further, just ask yourself a central question, if the current system obviously doesn't work, whether it needs to be changed to number a, number b or question number let's find a solution. Let's not argue here, I see the whole day has been a debate I wasn't present, but even after this law is passed, nothing will be resolved for peasants or farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31186	I'm glad to see the constructiveity of the debate. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31187	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short. You spoke to your colleague Stazić today about the subsidies of cultural support, education. So I have to react for the simple reason that Mr. Bulj keeps saying that part of Croatia does not have enough funds to subsidise tuition. We must say that during the period of the government of Zoran Milanovic, the subsidisation of high school transport was returned, at 75%, and not by accident 75%, because we know if we return 100% that then not exactly the ethical behaviour of the carrier moves. And that's why it's left to every county to co-finance the rest of 25% in agreement with carriers. If we add to this the subsidy of tuition, then it is indeed ensured that Croatia is still a society of equal opportunities in which every child has a chance to achieve the highest quality education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31188	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're going to vote. The first item is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State aid, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 76, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Support Act is adopted. Secondly, all comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law." Please sign in, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes were 114 votes in favour, with no abstentions and with 2 against, we have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Day of Pink T-shirts is traditionally marked last Wednesday of February. This day's marking was started in Canada in support of a boy who was exposed to peer violence precisely because of his arrival in a school in a pink shirt. Turns out that T-shirt symbolizes his support for a seriously ill mother. Very soon, the boys' schoolmates solidarityed and appeared in a school in pink shirts that immediately became a symbol of this initiative, later internationally recognized. Unfortunately, the fact is that violence in many forms is present daily in all environments, and that is why we propose to make this decision aimed at raising awareness of the great problem of children and young age violence that can cause severe consequences in the short and long term perspective of children's development. The aim of the activities that would be carried out in the context of the National Day of Fight against peer violence is to promote tolerance, to develop awareness and emotion that children will help to accept differences and adapt to them, understand them and start to appreciate them. We want children to think about the complexity of relations within the community, as well as to highlight the meaning and importance of negotiating and not violent ways of solving the problem with the aim of preventing physical violence. We consider it important to create a secure environment without feeling superior and inferior to the atmosphere in which each child will feel accepted and loved. In the Republic of Croatia, the problem of peer violence is already known, it is also given exceptional attention to the Ombudsman for children. In some schools, the day of the pink T-shirt was already marked through the various activities of students in the regular and added classroom and through the UNICEF network of schools without violence and the project "Don't mock me", the school of friends of human rights. To all such activities, we will make it important at national level to mark the national day of combating peer violence because we believe that all forms of preventive activities that can contribute to the protection of every child from all forms of violent behavior should be sent. Research in Croatia has shown that 33% of children were exposed to physical, emotional or verbal but 11% of frequent and repeated violence during a certain period. Ignored the problem of peer violence, the belief that violent behavior among peers, the cost of growing up or teaching a child how to resolve disputes, and even initiatives in real life in which no one will pet them leads to peer violence being kidnapped by control and becoming a tragedy for which we have a sad example in the late Luka Ritz. We are convinced that the marking of the National Day of Fight against Peer Violence will focus this problem that children face more and more often and encourage them themselves but also those who care about the welfare of children to recognize this form of behavior and qualify it as unacceptable. The prevention of peer violence is an imperative of every civilised society and so must the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31192	I thank the vice president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Do the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee want to take the floor? If I don't open the debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, their debate will be presented by representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31193	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We're witnessing that he's trying to fight violence. I say to God because our country is leading a policy that essentially stimulates violence and work. That's my personal opinion, and I'm going to give you some examples. By supporting, say, aggression on Libya, or NATO's bombing of Libya, our country has actually fueled bloodshed, a lasting civil war. And in fact, a conflict within a country that is not, whose source is not in internal conflicts, but is actually imposed by once colonial, today's imperialist forces. With our military presence in Afghanistan, our country also does not contribute to peace and stability.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31194	Agent Pernar, I would ask you to really stick to the subject. You can describe the context and you can talk about having a certain attitude towards the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, today the theme is "A declaration of a national day against peer violence".
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31195	Mr. Petrov, I'm saying that our country stimulates the violence of every species, and now we've heard that an army is being sent to the Russian border that a decision has been made on that. I don't remember us in the Parliament voting on that. And there's a story against violence on the one hand, and on the other hand there are wars, arms races and so forth. In the educational case, there is no critical thought at all, there is no incentive for students, so there is no subject during which to discuss phenomena in society. So you have a situation where there is no subject of peer violence in schools as a whole where you would simply analyse this phenomenon, where it would come from the scientific side, where you would talk about the consequences of this violence etc.. I ask the question, if it's a real problem, and it's real why this phenomenon, that's why it doesn't get into the teaching material and why the students don't talk about it openly. M we don't see that going in that direction. By declaring a day against peer violence, nothing will change in any way. That's just one thing, I'd say, one cartoon in the diary, one letter on paper without any real, concrete measures, and nothing will change. And the question is, what's the point of that? And I'd also like to point out cases of young people like Luke Ritz who was killed, meaning he didn't die, who was killed, and his killers were never adequately punished. You have a situation in our country that underage killers can go through with minimum sentences. You have a situation in meaning Split a minor, for example, stabbed with a knife, killed, etc., etc. Instead of taking some concrete action from our country, and I say a concrete measure would be to amend the Penal Code where prison sentences are raised for underage killers. Our country, as always, is just declarative, only by word, marks the day of that alleged struggle. I'm saying supposed to, 'cause I didn't actually see that fight. I may have overlooked it, you may have overlooked the colleges that you haven't seen, but I haven't seen a single concrete measure that the government is fighting against peer violence. Let's see, for example, in schools, it's a problem, so Ivan Pernar. The ministry even sent sciences and edicts I don't know what to call it on topics or memos against me in schools. And let's just say that the problem between peer violence is not mentioned at all, the ministry has no idea of an intervention plan or any indication of the problem. And I saw the media don't talk about it at all. If I could at least get this problem I wouldn't say bigger, it's enough equal attention how much I got for days, if not for weeks, that's almost all the media. Ask yourself ladies and gentlemen not only how to deal with this phenomenon, but what are its causes and whether it is possible for our society to be free from such a type of violence, to relieve this social pressure if we as a society do not change the system of values. If, instead of for peace and non-violence, we continue to advocate wars, wars for material interests, not for the sake of the common good. Unfortunately, our society was dominated by the materialism of the most cruel type and the domination of the stronger over the weaker, and not, unfortunately, the justice and justice. In our society, it is not just peers, or children, who are exposed to violence. Look and it means grown men who are victims of justice, which states, means as such and its inhumane laws. As time goes by, the problems remain, nothing in practice changes. Parliament meetings go on every day, agenda points are changed, new laws are passed, new rules are adopted. But what has changed in practice in the lives of our citizens? Can our citizens in these 25 years say that we have progressed as a society? And if we haven't made progress as a society, who's responsible for it? Is that us who haven't dealt with real social problems or anyone else? The worst kind of violence is that of economic violence. And today there's no division into, or all the other divisions are secondary to that division, to that division of those who have and those who don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31196	Representative Pernar, I ask you to stick to the subject and at this point I give you a warning. I'd really like you to stick to the subject. Today's topic is National Day of Fight against peer violence, and if you want to talk about economic divisions at all times, you have the right to request a break. The best thing to do would be before the session itself begins and we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31197	But I want to point out that peer violence is often exposed to poor children and that, in fact, systematically poor people, i.e. children, are in some way being oppressed and oppressed. That's what I was gonna say. And unfortunately, the cause of their poverty, at least some of that violence, is at least the one that is related to poverty. Keep in mind that social pathology and its various derivatives such as peer violence are partly motivated by poverty. Often you will see that someone who doesn't have something will use violence against whoever has it. There's violence like that. And we as a Parliament are the most responsible for this because we have created in our society a division of those who have none. So that division was not made up of itself and of the children who are being victims, which those who commit peer violence on them is reflected. No problem in society can be solved without a comprehensive view of its causes, because as long as the causes are not resolved, the consequences cannot be solved. So we only address the phenomenon of this violence as one isolated phenomenon. So now we have, here's what peer violence is, and now how are we going to solve it, and you don't even wonder how it happened, what its causes are. Basically, and after the vote is voted on that day, we will gladly support it, we have nothing against it. But we just want to point out that in practice, for children who are victims of violence, nothing will change, because the causes will not be touched. And I repeat once again, we appeal to the Parliament that underage perpetrators of the most serious crimes begin to be adequately punished, because if the legislator does not, he actually stimulates violence and sends a social message that violence is something that can and may be done, which can be done against others to be adequately punished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31198	Thank you. Before we go to the replicas, here's one thing I'd like to say to Agent Pernar. Sometimes seemingly symbolic actions change the course of life. Sakcinski and his speech in Croatian seemingly in the Assembly were symbolic, but he changed a lot. Mail Anne Rukavine didn't seem to mean much. I think we're all aware of what that one e-mail did today. And also today, if we declare that or when we vote for National Day of Fight against peer violence, it may not seem like much to us today, but it might do a lot. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31199	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's almost on the trail of what you've said to your colleague Pernar I agree with you that just declaring the day of combating the violence of the inter-excelral violence won't change anything and that it's much more important that in practice it does, I hope it will. But I answered because in one part of it, you were completely wrong to say, and that's that there's nothing in schools that seems to be about preventing peer violence. Here I have a manual Health Education that was issued just at the time I was Minister and in it a module of Prevention of Violent Behavior where through all primary school classes and through all high school classes, Croatia is working precisely to prevent violent behavior amongst peers, so children towards parents, children towards teachers and to make Croatia a better society than it is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31200	The next replica comes from MPs Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31201	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pernar. I fully agree with you that society and the state must always do more to prevent any form of violence in this case of peer violence. This is a very serious topic. What I don't agree with you is that repression can do a lot, especially in light of your commitment to harsher punishments. We have recently talked here about violence against women and then colleague Vučetic used a picturesque comparison and said it should not be that law as well as this proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Fight Against Peer Violence only a fig leaf. And now the Speaker of the Parliament has said that I agree and a symbolic gesture can sometimes do much. But what I wanted to tell you, and because of 60 thousand teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools, it's true, again, in 2003 teachers and teachers were left without their minister, in 2003 the Ministry of Education was abolished, the Ministry of Science and Education introduced, and today we have the Minister of Science, we have no Education, teachers don't have it. And what's even bigger, teachers in many schools don't have enough professional associates, no psychologists, no educators, and that's the key problem. But believe me, 60,000 teachers and teachers face problems every day, each day they solve them. There are many schools in schools, if not all, clear protocols in the case of peer violence, there are clear protocols. And people are struggling with it and in that field believe a lot of their working hours are engaged. So it's not true that this society does nothing. Is doing enough that's another question. But what we could certainly help as a society and as a state, to help teachers and teachers in such a way that, especially in smaller schools, even if more schools work, even more professional associates. Is often not enough teachers competent to recognize problems because it's very sensitive issues... I'm talking about peer violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31202	Thank you, Representative Sagar. Agent Pernar, I don't know if you wanted to replicate twice or once.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31203	I'd like to say that, you say I don't agree with more punishments, but I'm looking for a comprehensive approach, one part of the cause-related work, means that part of the violence that's avoided is coming to him. However, in every society there are pathological structures of personality, violent people who will commit violence against others independently of society. So a man will just stab someone with a knife, kill him, etc. They have to increase the penalty for such things. Well, someone can't take your child's life away from you and I don't know how to spend three years at some education center and he's free the next day. He destroyed your life, took the right to another person's life, and was never adequately punished. If such a type of violence were adequately punished, then violent personality structures would think twice about the crime they commit not for the victim, not because they would feel sorry for the victim because it's obvious that it's such a structure of personality that she's reckless, that there's no compassion for empathy, etc. He's already doing it himself. And unfortunately, the current law protects minor perpetrators of the most serious crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31204	And if you let a colleague, Sagar, I would only supplement Agent Pernar that there are not only pathological structures of personality prone to violence or physical violence. There are pathological structures that do violence in a different way, but it's still violence. Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31205	Thank you very much. My colleague Pernar's research says that violence is huge in school children, and it needs to be stopped. Of course, society can do much more, of course I can't do it as a parliamentary representative to go to school now and be locked up with students. I'm sure one of the parents would say what you're doing here. I would never allow myself to, but that's what I encourage, basically, as a minor to the irrational move of minors. And you also need to look back here at the key moment, it's that this day is just marking non-violence against peers in this case. That's very important. And we as Parliamentarians need to work, essentially in the process, to give laws, amendments and amendments. And you're calling the Parliament to blame for the situation, for the wars. The one who was at war knows what war is, war is the worst thing that can happen, where you can see how man, on either side, is dead, how he died, how he was wounded. So that's what we're talking about right now is the difference. We don't wash our years of terror by going to school. I would never let any parliamentary representative and politician enter the school, into the bench where my child is or I would ever, it would have occurred to me. Because it's emotional pressure on children, who in two years' time will be voters or in a year's time. It's the creation of charisma in a bad way. I would never do that, as a parliamentary representative, nor would I allow another parliamentary representative or any authority to do that to my children. Authority doesn't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31206	Representative Pernar came forward for a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31207	Thank you, Mr. Bull. You may not want to come among the students in school, sit down with them in benches and talk to them in that way or communicate with them, but believe me, children, or students in schools would like to see schools, talk to them, ask them what their problems are, what things they face, to have someone to say what they want to change in school, etc. But by creating an artificial one, so to speak, an artificial barrier between students who are objects in the policy we are conducting. So we're just running politics by politicians against students and the students can't tell us anything. That's how the system is imagined. You think if you didn't get into the classroom that you didn't influence them. How can you not, Mr. Bull? Every law we pass will affect both their education and their future life. When I was in Slavonski Brod, I told the students, it was my wish that every MP would go to school and talk to them and that one day when the Living Wall formed the Government I told them that they would be allowed to have the opportunity to call on, say, the hours of politics and the economy that the MPs would like to respond to. But unfortunately, I'm afraid it's not the children's problem, but it's the problem with MPs who simply wouldn't respond, who don't care about those students, who are lazy to listen to those children when they come into the assembly and let alone go among them and talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31208	Representative Furio Radin, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm not sure if my colleague Pernar was happy when he talked about the impact of real wars on bulism or peer violence. I think Croatia's participation in the war in Afghanistan or supporting intervention in some other countries alone may not have such an impact. But basically when Mr. Pernar talked about how the context of Mr. President, and even at the time when you warned him about going off topic, when he was talking about economic opportunities affecting people's frustration, so that frustration of people affects domestic violence, pauperization, so poverty affects the family again, so mobbing at work, tycoon mobbing that pays you 2,000 kuna, you have to work on Saturdays and Sundays, so you come home and you have bad relations with your parents. You as a psychiatrist, Mr. Petrov, know very well that it affects children and that it affects their violence. And it's not just that part that Mr. Pernar was talking about, which of course he has, he doesn't just have the part where he who has violence on the one he doesn't have. And he who has no becomes and aggressive and becomes and aggressive toward those who have. Well, any form of bullism or peer violence can occur in schools. So economic differences, I don't know about wars. For a war on television, I'm sure. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] But economic opportunities are very much influencing. [[President: Representative Radin, I apologize, time, excuse me.]] Sorry, there's too little time for that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31210	I'm sorry. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31211	Mr. Radin, thank you very much from your heart for noticing what the chairman unfortunately was unable to see despite his professional education. You have seen that economic inequalities in the society that break up the family ultimately break down every member of that family, or child, and finally, we have, means where simply frustration and violence is simply transferred from person to person. It means yes. And as for wars, so look, how would you, let's say, I'm going to set an example of the American army, so that you can recruit hundreds of thousands of young people to take arms and go to war all over the world that's not in their interest, and if not that you've previously served violence through television, violence through video games, means that you're going to kill, etc., etc. In a society that is nonviolent, it means what is for peace so that you can get the consent of a society to go to wars of imperialist etc. that is, what I'm saying is that society deliberately in one segment encourages violence because it corresponds to this socio-political arrangement that was actually created on blood, the use of force and violence. After all, if I'm not mistaken, I don't know how long America exists, maybe it's only a dozen years old that it wasn't that country in the war. Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31212	Thank you. Before I go further with the replicas, I will just because you have looked back at my words and Agent Pernar has tried to dispel my words, then I would ask especially for a representative of Pernar for the reason that he first came out with his explanation of the subject to read something about peer violence, to study all the risk factors for peer violence, and then he will likely discover that one of the parameters or one of the risk factors is also a social situation in the family. A series of other factors in scientific research, if watched... has a more significant impact on violence among the ageing population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Representative Davor Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31213	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pernar, I think everyone understood that you were basically going to say I did for the introduction of a third Wednesday in February to be a symbolic Day against violence among peers. And your explanation of why you're up for it, I think it's been explained a little while ago that everything comes out of the family and that if the family doesn't have stable income and if it's not arranged, then there's a variety of deviating behavior. And I also think that you failed to emphasize that apart from the street and these other risk groups that affect peer behaviour, the media, or television, is important, and that we have too often and too many in different movies, and even from the cartoons of violence in the same. And I don't think it's enough just to put a mark on it, it's not recommended to look younger than 12, 14 or 16 years old, but that what you said through quality education should allow children to come to the right knowledge, that through talking to parents and teachers and teachers, but also with our parliamentary representatives, that's where I agree with you. The only thing I think is that it's correct to seek the consent of the school's principal, the class of different departments to come to class. And I'd love to, if that's the way I'm gonna call and I'm gonna talk to and talk to my students, especially high school kids. And I think that's how we help avoid inequality among young people. And I'd like to ask you a question, because here's one of the solutions that individual principals and schools are starting to make so that there are no inequalities among children, that not all have the same financial opportunities to buy T-shirts of these or those brands, to wear the same uniforms in schools and classes. Do you think that this is positive and will it contribute to reducing violence among peers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31214	Thank you. Agent Pernar reported, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31215	It's just that the party that ruined, that is, turned into black thousands of working families, which led to the disappearance of so many factories in this famous privatisation is actually partly responsible for this whole thing to say the explosion of violence. But I'd just like to get one detail. Otherwise, I'm personally against uniforms and all the same for all of them, etc. Because I support differences. I think every child should have the right to wear what he wants, what's on his heart. But ask yourselves, gentlemen, Parliamentarians. Recently there was an attack on "Partizana" fans in Zagreb. The attackers were minors. They stoned these young people because they were Serbs. That's the essence of the whole story. And now what's going on? Ask yourself if in the parliamentary debates I think of colleagues primarily from HDZ when and sometimes Miro Bulj knows how to speak on the subject, when you constantly demonize Serbs and keep mentioning the Chetniks and constantly create tensions that there is some fear of Serbs and that Serbs will threaten us and that we are threatened by Serbs. Do you in this way actually stimulate this kind of violence? I'd like to take a peaceful rhetoric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31216	Thank you. Representative Bulj reported first for breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31217	A colleague, Pernar, injured Article 338(5), demeans and insults other MPs. My colleague Pernar said that I often insult Serbs. Comrade Pernar, I am expensive, living in a village where Serbs live, a national minority of Serbian nationalities with whom I live and have been raised. Many of them are much better citizens than many Croats by nationality. They didn't choose a nation like me. I have great respect for them, and we live together, and we are tolerated not from now on, but before and in the Homeland War. They gave a big pain. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And this insult that you just told me, this is an insult below the level, below the belt and the sea you're ashamed of. And that's how you determine people whether they respect someone or don't respect them. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And Mr. President, in these cases, it is your duty to warn him. [[Intruder President: Representative Miro Bulj said your opinion.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31218	And I'll say mine later. But thank you. Croatia's Zekanovic also reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31219	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Pernar injured Article 238, almost all the items, but let's just say not only him but everyone else who replicated did not stick to the subject, so there were a lot of injuries to the Rules of Procedure here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31220	Thank you. Representative Vesna Bedekovic also reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31221	Dear President, the same article item 1 therefore did not speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31222	Thank you. As for holding the topic, I warned several times, with the warning being given during the presentation of Agent Pernar, that he was not sticking to the subject, with the parliamentary representatives continuing to replicate to Agent Pernar what was not in the topic, and he responded to the replicas. So for the second time, I can't remind him of what I warned him about for the first time because he was stimulated by parliamentary representatives. And as for the insults of the MPs, I would really like to ask that you refrain from these comments, which are really insulting the MPs. If you want to reshape it in some other way, I think there's a way to find it. Thank you. Representative Vesna Bedeković reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31223	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pernar, let's get back on the subject, that's fine. We're going to the scale of things. I would refer to that part of your debate in which you spoke of the Penal Code as one of the measures to prevent peer violence and the part where you spoke of the problem of peer violence as a topic of school curricula. Number one, so the first part suggests that the Penal Code and its parts change in terms if I'm not mistaken, I've heard that, to increase the fines for minors. I would just draw your attention to the fact that you have touched on the topic of repression as measures to counter violence and that you need to know that repression is a result of repression and that you need to know that violence in itself is causing violence. So the repressive measures just keep making this story even deeper and somehow it seems to me that you'd have to get a little bit more information about all the phenomenal forms, not just peer violence, but elements that affect and the consequences that are happening, and somehow you'd still have a lot to learn there, so I suggest you read a little bit of literature and see that it's a very complex problem and that there's no repression going on. And secondly, if I allow time for the problem of peer violence as a topic of curriculum and my colleague Jovanovic has replicated you and I will agree here with my colleague. It is not true that schools do nothing and such statements somehow have the impression that you are insulting all valuable and hardworking teachers, teachers, teachers who are working very hard on different topics through curricula. So on these topics they certainly know how to raise our children competently and professionally. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31224	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31225	When I say that you need to increase the sentence, I'm supposed to deal with the causes, eliminate the causes, but there are people who even when you slightly punish them they'll repeat the violent act again. So here I'm talking about people whose pathological structures are personalities, just a part of the people I don't know, some serial killer, now you can't access a serial killer in a way I'm going to slightly punish you because the repression is giving birth to repression. So you have to treat extremely violent people so when someone takes a knife and stabs your child, you have to punish him with a great and significant prison sentence, otherwise there will be a feeling that there is no justice not to punish a crime. And you think I don't, that I don't need ok. Everyone has a right to their own opinion. And yet I'm going back to the question, ask yourself, why are fans? Which is why they're minors, and the repression is juvenile violence, why they attacked children or these Partizan fans, ask yourself that. The answer is because they are Serbs. And ask yourself why such animosity and wonder if in this House sometimes by a certain part of the Parliament, animosity spreads against the Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31226	Agent Pernar, let's not deepen the debate about something that's not really a topic. As far as your exposure is concerned, I'd really have to warn you right now even though I'm mixing a part of the function, but I'm mixing it because of my experience, please check the moment in which a personality disorder can be diagnosed when you're talking about the pathological structure of a person, you need to know what you're talking about. Here's what you'd ask. Representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31227	Excuse me, Mr. President, I must warn you. Article 33 he speaks of the powers of the President of the Parliament and of its work. First of all, I appreciate your opinion of the profession you belong to, and I'd like you to be involved in this debate. I'd be very interested to hear your attitude. But kindly please, don't abuse the chair seat at the session and comment on other people's presentations leading the session. Ask one of the vice presidents to replace you and me personally, I'd be very interested in your position on this matter. But this seems very ugly that you're working towards your colleague Pernar and others, and it's unfair.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31228	Thank you. I accept that by accident the vice presidents are present I would really do so. But I accept your grudge. Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31229	Your Honor. The pathological personality, the punished and everything that my colleague Pernar listed, and here we have all sorts of examples. But what does peer violence manifest itself in? It's manifested in various ways. Someone commits violence because, as we say, comes from home rearing, someone commits violence because of the produced violence from outside influences, watching TV violent movies, watching environmental behavior, watching peer behavior, looking at some of their future role models. So some MPs don't get to go to high school, and also go to elementary schools and look for some future equalists, in one of their own as well as pathological or other intentions. What's this about? If you come to an organized school which has therefore its codes of certain behavior, certain treatment that is adapted to that child and that age at that school, and now someone comes from outside, which is an external influence on that organized environment aimed at the age group in primary school, and someone comes with the external influence of his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/it/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/your/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/your/your/your/your/your/its/its/your/your/its/its/its/your/your/your/its/your/s/your/your/s/s/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/its/ their/ their/ their/ their/ their/its/s/ their/its/s/s/s/s/its/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s/s of the school/s/s/s/s). So there's someone raising them to some program and now every outside influence as well as the one I mentioned Done. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31230	Representative Pernar, reporting for reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31231	Thank you, Chairman. You see, you're speaking now against violence, Mr. Culey, but you've told your colleague, Veljko Kajtazi, in your own time that he's lying like a Serb gypsum. That, Mr. Culey, is your word, that's your rhetoric. I had just experienced from you and from no other MP in the Croatian Parliament that while making a statement to the media that he approached me, pushed me away and insulted me, he cursed me. So, please make... Ha, I heard you swearing and on the tape you can hear Mr. Culey, you can say that you didn't, but that doesn't change the facts. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder President: Representative Culey, please refrain.]] And it's just ironic for me that you call others for violence. And I'm making a great physical contact, in that sense, with one representative versus another from no other person I've ever experienced except you. Ask yourself about your behavior and what kind of example you give not only to the students, but whether it is behaviour at the level of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31232	Thank you, Agent Pernar. The HDZ advocates' club reported for participation in the debate. And on their behalf, the representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31233	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament and dear colleagues. Here, as you have heard today, is the theme of the motion for a decision to declare the National Day of Fight against peer violence. Otherwise this day in the world is marked as Pink T-shirts or English Pink Shirt day, it's actually the metric, that's what we're discussing today, that's what we're supposed to discuss. Unfortunately, and how much violence is present in our society, here it is, the fact is that we must mark this day. Well, in fact, we have a number of laws as a law on preventing domestic violence that tells us that violence is all unfortunately present I have to say. I am very glad that this topic can be addressed to you and to the entire Croatian public and violence among peers is one of the biggest, I will not say the biggest, perhaps the biggest problems of Croatian society today. But here it is, before we begin to talk about this, perhaps even defining what peer violence is, as we define it, has a whole series of definitions, I would with the most common one, which is most often mentioned, which says: “Arrival violence is when one or more children are consecutively and deliberately harassing, attack or harming another child that cannot be defended.” We all grew up and we were all children, and I'm sure we all met at some age with peer violence. Well, today we know how to say it like grown-ups, so, well, come on, it's my son or it's my nephew or my friend so if he doesn't break it, it'll toughen him up. What about those kids that break? There are children who simply cannot defend themselves, who are simply not strong enough. And right now this day is actually the day of those children who can't defend themselves. When we talk about violence, there are various kinds of violence, we always mention it when we think about bodily injuries but it's actually much, much more complex. It can also be a threat, physical injury, rejection, ridicule, teasing, gossiping, taking things, comments about the child’s relatives, which children are very, very sensitive to. And if, with all this, we take new technologies, new technologies, especially social networks, we'll see that this topic is very, very complex and that it's worth talking about. I'm sorry that the colleagues who got involved in the debate didn't absolutely know what the topic was today and here they spent the time we could spend on the metrics, so this is the subject. When we talk, a little numbers, just a little bit so people can hear what it's all about. One analysis says that every fourth child in Croatia is a victim of peer violence. Even 27% of children experience some kind of violence every day or almost every day. It's a terriblely large piece of information. I find it even worse that 16% of children act violently, which is actually the cause of the problem. It means where we have 16% of children who have violent behavior. My colleague Bulj read, I'll repeat, I don't know if you've heard the same information that says, so in Croatia there are 23 thousand students 33% of children during a certain period of time exposed to physical, emotional or verbal violence and 11% of frequent and repeated violence. These are terrible data. And when we talk about this, let's not forget, it was today and mentioned, it's worth mentioning it another time by Luke Ritz, who just paid for his peer violence with his young life. We have, I've listed some kind of violence, but here I have to go a little deeper into the metrics. Violence can be direct violence involving violence, mockery, humiliation, insult, direct criticism, order, requirement of subjugation, pushing, tearing, hitting whatever it is. And we have an indirect, we're not talking about him. It's so much harder to spot. This is, for example, the exclusion of a child from the environment. This is violence more often in girls than in boys, it happens everywhere, it happens in schools, it happens on the street, it happens in class in the school hall, wherever you move. The rejection or isolation of a child given that people are social beings, socialized and who must live in a community is one of the forms of violence to which every young man, every child, is very sensitive. And that's something that I would like through this debate here to a little sensitization of the Croatian public. How do you solve the problem? The problem is we can actually solve this school and parents maybe. Not maybe, but actually they're the only solutions, through education. School is an educational institution. We're always stressing this educational component, we're neglecting education. School together with parents means this mechanism that we can fight against this. But here it is, though, that you hear the whole context of this story a little bit. In 2007, this first, not the first, one incident took place in Canada. It was about a kid named Sailing Cot who was the target of the bulling. That day, so there was this one trigger, he came in a pink shirt and was especially subjected to peer violence. Since that day, i.e. That day, his colleagues and friends bought all the pink shirts, came to school and actually marked that one, so they helped him defend against peer violence. And a few years later, even the United Nations declared an anti-bulling day, that is, the day against bulling, that it is not everywhere this day that we will mark in Croatia, but it does not matter. Here's one to mention both the Adriatica Kota and all the other victims of peer violence. By mentioning another piece of information, which is, in America, peer violence is more common than with us. In America, research was conducted on a large sample, saying that as many as 70 children were subjected to peer violence. And since we're following America somehow, unfortunately in these bad things, or the West in general, we have to be very careful not to follow them with these numbers. The prevention or education of our children through school, through families, or raising each child for general human values such as the dignity of every human being. That's the key, that's the solution to this problem. If a child knows that every human person has dignity, if we teach a child good communication skills, then the child will never choose violent behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31234	Representative Tomislav Liposčak reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31235	Here's the esteemed president, colleague Zekanovic. So at one point you mentioned that other than classical violence among peer violence, violence is more and more common on the Internet, so through social networks, Facebook, etc. Unfortunately, the availability of computers today, and in particular cell phones, smart phones, the possibility of misuse of the same means is proportionally increasing and greater. It is particularly a negative possibility of anonymous participation in the virtual world and under false names. A survey of children aged 12 to 14 showed that nearly 1/5 children experienced one form of violence on social networks or on the Internet. However, 11% of the same subjects of the same sample also said that only as a bully appeared on these social networks. In Croatia, a sample of 7,000 children, meaning primary schoolchildren 52% of children were harassed in one way or another by the most common gossip on the Internet. What is even more devastating is the fact that 3% more of these children, these same subjects, and 55% of them admitted that others gossiped on the internet alone, and therefore made up a certain part of the violence. In the end, I would just like to repeat that we should not fool ourselves and think that our children are safer and less exposed to violence if they are behind our home doors, if they are in their rooms with their smart phones, with their laptops than they are on the school playground or in the yard or on the street. Very often, unfortunately, it's exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31236	Thank you. The reply to the replica is representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31237	My dear colleague, I couldn't agree more. I'm glad you brought that information. It seems to me that today we have a situation where mother and father are closing the child in the bedroom, or in the study, and they think that they are calm, and the child can be exposed to these very forms of violence that are getting more and more frequent today. And today we don't have the mechanisms to fight them except by raising ourselves. So this is exactly the kind of education, and I'm going to say one thing here, I left out before I say violence condemns everyone, condemns all groups of society, condemns atheists, condemns Christians, condemns Muslims, condemns all nations. So regardless, it means all religions and we just need to use this consensus that we have and allow different groups to each in their own way through different programs to fight violence, or to raise children for peace. Maybe this is one and it means one field where we can really find a consensus and successfully fight this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31238	Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31239	Thank you, President of the Parliament. We're talking to our colleague Zekanovic about violence, so we can say this. What's causing the violence? A lot of things are caused, and then the consequences come. We have had wars and unhappiness and crises and all the other things that are in Croatia today, so we see, now colleagues of Pernar are gone, violence between Torcida and BBB Dinam, Hajduk, our games we play outside, violence on the national team, and we see young people in our lives in real violence, and this is why we are being attacked by Serbs, children Serbian. He's wondering what's the most important thing. Yeah, we condemn it anyway but violence produced television. A message from Belgrade the other day, that we Ustasha, that Stepinac is a criminal instigating in a certain part of the youth revolution, is broadcast by television. The other day we watch television in Split a day thousands of needles share our youth, no one cares about it. As much as Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Zadar and all our drug sites don't talk about it. We need to talk about the cause, and we need to raise certainly children so that there is no violence, that there is no violence against Serbian over any Muslim people, no one wants it in Croatia. But the media have their own place, and those messages they send from Belgrade shouldn't at least be transmitted, at least our kids wouldn't know that, wouldn't be that kind of revolt that's still going on. And the consequences of the war, and maybe it wouldn't have happened anymore. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31240	The reply to the replica is representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31241	Dear colleague, there are many reasons why people are violent. People have been violent forever. In recent times, we have some reasons that may be economic reasons and war means the recent war that was here, although today's children were not actually participants, witnesses of that war, so there is very little justification. I would say that we must have zero tolerance for violence and perhaps even pay even more attention to the victims of violence, but parallel to that look at the causes. But maybe the solution is really about rearing. It's up to me to repeat it in the family, and in school, that school is also an educational institution, maybe that's the key. And the reason here is I said there's a lot of them, and I think some things have changed for the better, that we as a society are growing. And I'm sure society was more violent once. Today we have some new challenges, here's a colleague who spoke earlier, but I think we're still going in one good direction, but this battle has just begun, and we have to fight violence I'm sure for a long, long time to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31242	Representative Zeljko Lenart responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31243	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Zekanovic, so here is the HSS club, will surely support this initiative to mark this day. But I think you brought out here a series of data, a kind of violence that most of us have children and probably met or heard of some kind of violence. I think this is the time we've spent on this debate is irretrievably lost, so we'd better discuss how to solve this problem, which is the cause. My colleague Pernar was talking about the work of the cause, so we said that he was out of the picture or in some way demeaning his thinking. Normally there are differences in property, some children argue because their fathers are in one party, the other in another, there are a million reasons why there is violence between children why there are some differences. But what I tell classmates of my children, I have a primary school and a high school student, is that they tell me the problem, and mine is that I solve such a problem because growing up is starting from home. But there are profiles of children who are so hard to influence, but what we will achieve with this debate is so much about making conclusions instead of looking for these reasons. There's a lot of reason and we need to have such a discussion here, and I think we should have a good initiative for that. Of course, everyone here probably agrees with the marking of such a day if it will help solve this problem. But I think the problem is in one whole other part. Here's what my colleague said earlier, the content on TV is that they encourage children with the creation of violence. There are video games, social networks kids don't hang out with their parents and not talk about problems, but they stare at screens all the time, and there's one big problem with this kind of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31244	The reply to the replica is representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31245	My dear colleague, the Parliament... is discussing, so you've been discussing this subject, too, you've found a meaning in this debate. I told my colleague Pernar earlier that he wasn't prepared, as he wasn't prepared. So he absolutely didn't know what the agenda was, we were listening to the novel of the consciousness stream as if James Joys were listening here, so that's something he doesn't have, so I have to admit a little bit. And whoever doesn't want to argue doesn't have to argue. And you and we all have a chance tomorrow to propose some law on this subject. Today is the item of the agenda to mark the National Day of Fight against peer violence and this is the topic and could actually be very short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31246	Representative Furio Radin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know as well as I do that this is either a subject that is absorbed in one sentence, and you are a colleague of Zekanovic or that should be discussed here for days. I have the impression here that all those who spoke, were saying part of the truth and Mr. Pernar who tried to bring it into contact with inequality, you must have guessed Mr. Zekanovic when you gave one great decryption of phenomena finally to figure out what was going on, that not everything was bulism or peer violence, that he was strictly defined to know what it was about. But me and everyone else, but I'm digging up one thing and it's when it comes to prevention and talking about being a bigger influence of the family, taking for granted that families are healthy, that families of healthy values, that there are no ones in the family who say the one who has the pink shirt is gay, and then what you said before or who says you can be careful about the gypsies can steal your money or the one who tells you that and that nationality. Getting healthy for granted that families are healthy, that families are healthy, that there are no ones in the family who say the one who has the pink shirt is a homosexual, and then what you said before, or who says watch out for the gypsies can steal your money or the one who tells you and those nationalities. We can't take for granted that the values of the family are sacred. We need to talk about changing family values, improving family values. And there comes both science and politics on your that you need to talk about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31248	The reply to the replica is representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31249	Dear colleague Radin, it's interesting how you've questioned the value of the family here, but you haven't brought it here, for example. in question the value of the system. So in the system also people raise children, I didn't question her, that we understand each other, in the system also people raise children, it's some teachers, teachers, who, like parents. But you had a need, it's very symptomatic, the need you had means something to say that would question whether parents were competent to raise children. And who's it supposed to be? And what place should Mr. Radin be where the child is raised? Is it supposed to be just an institution, so I think your question is, I don't know a little bit and funny, but it's actually the most trendy, and it's actually the most talking about whoever asked it, it means about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31250	Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31251	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31252	I'd like the MPs to refrain from commenting. Representative Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31253	Dear fellow Zekanovic, of course I would like to commend your debate because you have actually touched the core of the problem and that is when we talk about identifying violence, in fact what violence is, you have given some definitions and that is what the problem is, when we talk about institutions, about school, how to distinguish the conflict between students from violent behavior. Not every conflict or fight between students is violent behavior. We certainly, and I don't agree with my colleague Pernar, we as a society certainly if you want by system of values and cultural and civilizational don't belong to violent society. We are certainly not a violent society and I think that both the values that we share and our family and the educational education system are values that certainly do not promote violence. But what you should mention here, you mentioned the example of America, that's something, I didn't spend an expert on it, and about that I read something about, these are these subcultural groups that actually get authority through violence. And we're actually having a problem, too, and maybe my colleague Radin, when he was talking earlier, might be the problem with us that young people don't find the right authority either in the family or in the school, but they're looking for authority there in such subcultural groups, whether it's a cheerleading group or something else where they prove themselves that way. And there's actually a problem. And the problem of today's families is not in the system of values, the problem of today's families is in the system of survival, in the system of work obligations, in the system that very little time can be devoted to their children because children are looking for an example, children ask parents for a role model, children ask their parents for authority but not to impose authority, but the real authority that springs from their behavior. Or should I say it vividly, as I say to my child, don't smoke if I have a cigarette in my mouth. It's not going, you know, it's not going, it's not going like this. So, I just think it's Oh, well, I said problem. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31254	Representative Zekanovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31255	Dear fellow, I agree with you completely, Western civilization today works through a lot of subculture and young people are actually raised through subculture. It's on, in America it's a little different, in our country it's very tied up when we talk about violence with some cheerleading group, but not just with them, we have various subcultures so I wouldn't single out fans as some kind of exclusive problem and it has to work on it. So detection, so potential hotspots must start right from these subcultures that are source and peer violence in the end. But I'd read just one more piece of information here, and here I just skipped. There's an expression called bulllycide, which actually comes from bulling and suicide, meaning peer violence and suicide. So he says that in America, the last 30 years, the number of suicides caused by peer violence has increased by 50%. So more and more often. So this problem is growing. Although I say violence generally declines. But we need to be aware of this problem and it's good to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31256	Representative Vesna Bedeković, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31257	Thank you. So here's my colleague Zekanovic, I'd just like to go back a little bit to that part of your discussion where you talked about school as an educational institution, so I'd like to talk about the educational component of the school in terms of real and adequate response and access to education for non-violence, non-violent conflict resolution and, of course, to combat all possible forms of violence, among other things in school, one of the more violent forms, so that violence we call peer violence. So, of course, it's unquestionable that the school, so the educational component of the school, in that context, is unquestionable and I would say crucial, is one, you know, the beating always has two ends, on the one hand we have that part, on the other hand we have all this youth and all those children who live at the time of prestimulation, so I would call it, so also the exposure to different questionable systems of value, but the question is how many teachers, teachers, teachers, professional associates, educators, psychologists and all the others can make themselves with all their competences and knowledge. And so it seems to me that you have well underlined that part of your debate in which you said that the school only together with the family and the community can go towards one positive shift, which will primarily be a shift in terms of prevention, prevention of violence and then prevention and prevention programs, so they go hand in hand with the systematic approach of the country, the state, so one community solves these problems, so here I see institutions like the Parliament, the ministry, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31258	The reply to the replica is representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31259	Dear colleagues, thank you for your presentation. Since children are very often today, I've already talked about it closed in my study, their bedrooms, have these gadgets in their hands and are actually their best friends. There aren't so many kids on the street today, so kids on the street are actually rare because they're just not exposed to peer violence. And then the place where they socialize most often is through some kind of activity. Activities are actually a lot, if they're not school activities they're under one very large supervision of the breeder or if the child out there doesn't feel comfortable not going to that activity, and the school has to go. And actually for many children is the only place to socialize, contact with peers just school, the only place. And that's why this school is very important to be the component of education. Of course, I pointed out, I'm going to point out again with the family as the most important, means a factor in education, or an instrument.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31260	Thank you, Agent Zekanovic. This is what we're having a discussion with today. We'll continue at the same point tomorrow morning at 9.30. Thank you. Session adjourned at 5:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31261	We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31262	My colleagues and colleagues, yesterday we started this topic, which is more than just the announcement of a motion for a decision to declare the National Day of Fight Against Peer Violence. I am pleased that it has spread for two days and that perhaps the public will be more closely following these several debates today, and we can also stress some of the things that were mentioned yesterday in this topic and repeat what is more important since there are more parliamentary representatives. What I want to say at first is one thought that should be the motto of all of us, all of us adults, all of us who deal in any way with children, which is practically the whole population. Therefore, no violence against children is justified, and any violence against children can be prevented. In that direction, I see this initiative, which the SDP will of course support. Unfortunately, experts are increasingly involved in their work with children who have been abused at school, rejected by peers, who are teased by their diversity or beaten by peers. Children often experience consequences in adulthood. They feel rejected, frightened, invisible, ashamed, angry, or have difficulty establishing close friendships. Of course, it should be pointed out, no less consequences can be suffered by a child who is misbehaving, who learns or learns in a family or in an environment in which he lives that beatings and injuries are a way to express anger and fight for himself. And that child also has a series of consequences in adulthood. It is therefore important to say that these children cannot help themselves, cannot be left to face violence on their own. It is therefore for adults, parents, teachers, professionals, especially the media to become even more sensitive to this serious problem and not allow violence so present in society to live in school halls and leave consequences for the development of children. We cannot say that peer violence has not been spoken of for years, however, there remains somehow a bitter taste in the mouth that violence occurs more and more often and unfortunately that forms of violence are increasingly brutal. The availability of modern technologies obviously disrupts the imagination of a part of our youngsters and gives them more and more ideas that unfortunately are not so often positive. It did not happen in Croatia, but we can be afraid that the freshest examples from neighbouring Slovenia may also happen with us, which shows all the brutality of growing up some new generations. Almost daily we can read and listen in the media to see that violence is happening among young people, as well as violence of young people towards the elderly, to teachers, to parents. We have legal regulations that regulate this issue, but I have the impression that they are partially implemented or that they are not implemented at all. Just two examples. So, we all know that young people under 18 can't drink alcohol, they can't sell cigarettes. But just go over there every weekend and gather young people and see the abandoned spaces, see how much alcohol is poured. I know all the freshmans that are being organized, but today it's a trend to organize it for high school students, to last for 23 hours and also to pour alcohol. Where are the inspections? Where are the parents? Unfortunately, not many parents under peer pressure, their children say they're all going, how can my child stay at home? Therefore, early recognition, stopping and preventing violence provides children with help to overcome the consequences of violence, we send them a clear message that their well-being is important to them and that we live in a society that does not tolerate violence in any form. And this initiative marking the National Day of Fight against peer violence last Wednesday of the month is certainly going in that direction. Yesterday there were various debates that proved that some people do not understand what violence is among children. I will repeat, that we talk about violence among children when one or more children are consecutively and deliberately harassing, attacking or hurting another child who cannot be defended. It can be a form of threat, of physical injury, of rejection, of mockery, of teasing, of gossip, of taking his things. Forms of violence among children can be divided into two main forms. Of course it's physical and verbal. What I neglect verbal violence can sometimes have more serious consequences than physical violence. A whole series of research has been carried out around the world on the prevalence of school violence, so it's good to see where we are, whether there's more or less violence. The percentage of school children who are victims of violence in schools in most countries is similar. For example, in Australia it is 17%, 19% in England, 15% in Japan, Norway 14, in Spain 17, in the United States 16%. It is interesting that violence among children among their peers occurs most often between 4 and 8 grades of primary school. What warns various researches say that as many as 41% of teachers ignore and do nothing about bullying at school. We all know that aggressive behavior is taught early and difficult to change if it is still constantly repeated at the age of eight. Both boys and girls often intimidate students of the same sex except when it comes to sexual violence. One of the most important institutions in Croatia that deals with child protection is the Poliklinic for the Protection of Children in Zagreb, which also conducted a major survey of 25 primary schools on school violence. They filled out children's questionnaires from fourth to eighth grade in 13 Croatian cities and found interesting information. With regard to feeling the safety of children at school, 6% of children feel bad at school. Even 20% says it's not good, it's not bad. Discarded at school feels 3% of children, and 9% are not accepted or rejected. The results obtained are actually worrying. They showed that about every fourth child, which is 27% of the students studied, experiences at least one form of violence at school almost every day, with 19% of children being passive victims, they only experience violence, and 8% of children are provocative victims of violence but they do. The study showed that 8% of children are violent against other children on a daily basis and only experience violence of 16% of children. The material that we received today, or yesterday related to this initiative, says that 23 thousand students were exposed to some violence and 11% were often exposed to violence. Data that may not be surprising, but here I would like to mention, by analysing the prevalence of violence depending on school success, interesting data has been obtained, as expected, it has been shown that violence has been experienced and has been committed, given the height of the score, i.e. There is a greater prevalence of violence in children with lower success than in children with higher success. Comparing girls and boys, the results say that 35% of boys and 31% of girls experienced violence, 33% of boys and 17% of girls violently towards others. What is very important is how to help, so when it comes to seeking help in the environment, the results obtained show that 39% of children talked to their parents 38% with friends or friends, 15% were not talking to anyone, 13% talked to their brother or sister, and 11% with their teacher. This information on discussions with teachers would certainly have to be already because what is most important results of the survey have shown that violence after seeking help in the environment has most often ceased and this is very important. As a result, we too need to make additional efforts, and children always listen to what we say, absorb, and imitate our actions and behavior, and perhaps those who follow the congregation can sometimes drink something that is not good. I will remind you of one sentence from the mother of the late Luke Ritz, who she told all her parents, “Don’t worry that children don’t always listen to you, but worry about being constantly watched. ” Luka Ritz unfortunately died in 12.6.2008, because of peer violence, and only a year before that he said, "It is everyone's right to breathe, and so I was raised in my family, but outside the family I didn't believe it." In fact, this is almost the best message to me that shows that how Luka Ritz said everyone has the right to breathe, and our job is to help make that thought come true. Therefore, the SDP club supports the decision to declare "National Day of Fight against Peer Violence" marked last Wednesday of February, and we find it inadmissible to talk about peer violence only conveniently or when it happens. It is much more important to prevent preventive activities from happening at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31263	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin-Vukasanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31264	Thank you, Vice President. Well, respected colleague Jovanovic is already part of your debate, in fact, referencing the results published on the polyclinic site, and these data are really worrying. I agree with your exposure that it is sad and sad and the responsibility of all of us to just rarely recall it conveniently, and not always because this is an extremely important topic. But there is something that concerns me particularly, and something that practically the whole society should imagine, and we, of course, are here, and that is the question of who are the most common victims of abuse, who are children who suffer peer violence and myself personally. I was appalled even though I read a lot on the subject, it's more than symbolic, it's more than dramatic that children who suffer violence are peers who say the squad first, under 1 quiet and kind children, under 2 gifted children, under 3 who have a good relationship with a teacher or who are better in some cases, under 4 who are new in class, under 5 who are from poor families who do not have expensive branded clothes or cell phones, under 6 from other ethnic groups, under 7 disabled children or children with special needs, under 8 children divorced parents and under 9 children who suffer domestic violence themselves, so that's more than sad. That's really to ask ourselves. And I agree with you where this is going because as far as we're aware of our responsibilities here, you've noticed well, are we actually an institution in society, are we always sending a picture that is just ideal? The children, of course, learn by imitating whether we can always be proud of what we transmit from this institution or let it be another picture. And finally, let's ask ourselves, how much we as an institution contribute to social divisions, division, the rise of hate speech, and all of which ultimately all agree, leads to new violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31265	I thank my esteemed colleague, Petrijevcanin-Vukasnović, for calling you wrong for the first time. And a reply to the replica, dear colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31266	Thank you, colleague. I agree with everything you've said and it's actually a fundamental question of how to prevent, so that's what we're tasked with as politicians and families and schools and the media, and I personally think that the key here is to the family at the school, where right through the mutual conversations of children, through health education that has a module of prevention of violent behavior, we can actually explain to children how the first child treats itself, and then to his colleagues, his friends, to teachers, he creates healthier and plant society. If this is lagging behind then some bad models, bad role models, today social networks actually reign and significantly create the behavior of children. So it's something that must certainly be paid attention in the long run through education so that they don't adopt bad habits that then destroy both that child and the family and the class community and then spread it to the whole society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31267	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Stevo Culej, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31268	Dear Vice-President Jovanovic, a petition of schoolteacher who was involved in peer violence has collected 7345 signatures for most of the teachers who took one action, the action would be called, they want children who are doing rioting on the clock and distracting other children and teachers from teaching, which you have strongly opposed. And to the question of the journalists at the time, you've answered very rudely how they say and now you're calling for health care as well as then. Whether medical training should determine the problems of the violent behavior of certain students who interfere with the same teaching or who should be a educator, in my day there have been conversations. So the one who interferes with the clock and goes to the pedagogogical for a conversation, and if it doesn't bear fruit, then goes to a psychologist and I don't know what health care would have to say about it and who's involved in that health education to influence such children.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31269	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Cule for the replica. And the answer of the esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31270	Well, health education, or education for a healthy life, is something that will ensure that our children live healthier and learn something they may not learn in the family. Here, for example. You're certainly not a good example, because I'm going to quote Steve Culei's son excelling the Ustasha crimes and insulting the Parliamentarians, Sincic, calling himself a blasphemy communist and boasting of his father's salary. Well, colleague Culey, the kids at school are gonna learn not to behave like this. So you're a bad example to your child and to all those who follow your work in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31271	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31272	An esteemed colleague violated Article 238, disdaining fellow MPs. So I think this is worth one warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31273	Dear colleague Zekanovic, I thank you for your intervention, I do not think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, it is a stylish expression by my colleague Jovanovic, as you have yours, so has Mr Jovanovic, so we will not do it. Dear colleague Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31274	Article 238, I quoted the text in the morning list and therefore did not offend anyone, nor hurt anyone, and in fact I did very well describe the conduct of counsel Steve Culei who disgraced this Reverend Parliament. .../Intruder Culey: Go to the Frogs, in... Where you came from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Aggression: Shame on you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31275	Sir, Culey, I ask you nicely not to communicate like that in the Croatian Parliament. As for Mr Jovanovic's injury to the Rules of Procedure, it was more like a replica than a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I would like you. Thank you very much, please lower our tensions and do not communicate in such a way in the Croatian Parliament because Croatian citizens have no use for this kind of communication and this debate. We continue with the replicas, distinguished colleague Ana Komaraić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31276	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Jovanovic, I fully support your debate and especially the part where you mentioned that we have laws and regulations that are clearly not implemented in the Republic of Croatia. He's scheduled the system, and I personally think that we've all failed, that parents have failed, that the institutions have failed, but this big problem cannot be left to worry about at parents and schools alone. For the truth, I think we all need to get more involved. And so I think we need a lot of media help because these modern technologies are stories that are our children's source of information and if we don't get through and through such media we don't get through to our young people, we're going to have a hard time just talking and what little money they have at school. And I have to admit that I'm extremely sad that our schools haven't revived and the component that goes into the integral part of health care is sexual education because they show research that our young people get into sexual relations sooner and later on, which is even more tragic, absolutely no protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31277	I thank my dear colleague, Ani Comparić Devčić. The answer of the esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31278	Thank you, colleague Comparico Devcic. Well, actually, this particular initiative that we have today should change something. So I'm usually against all the different days we say fight day against this, day against the one, even though it's the only event. I would like this day to be marked except for the shirt worn on that day in a way that goes through some projects of activities in schools, activities that children together with their parents will do on projects and thus contribute to healthy growing up. As for health care, which is a thorn in some's eye completely wrong. So these days we have received a project worth 30 million euros that is actually almost based on basic health care policies that has 4 modules – to live healthy, to prevent violent behavior, to prevent addiction, to have sexual responsibility behaviour. And these are all segments that occur in peer violence. Therefore, just the quality of application of this programme guarantees healthier growth, and thus healthier Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31279	I thank my esteemed colleague Milanovic for his reply. We have another replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31280	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you highlighted the importance of this topic, and I would say that this is particularly important from the earliest age, because our children have been learning social skills and interpersonal relations for years. And I would be happy as a parent that the money that apparently government and presidents for their whim want to be used for mandatory military time to focus on schools and allow for quality civil, health education to be spent in order for our children to get certain knowledge and opportunities to prevent these behaviors in the future. I also think that there is a very large role in the media and how this problem is presented in the media and how we treat differences. And that is why I can say here that I am extremely unhappy that yesterday on Croatian television, space was again given to Mrs Markic to re-relativate the violence that took place at the Super Super Club in Zagreb because she performed there with the position that it had nothing to do with the young people who were there, but it could have happened anywhere. So the lady who performed on Mr Dujmovic's show who got the space to advocate there I would say a marginal political option, and he got a public television space watching all Croatian citizens. So I wonder if Mr. Bujanec will get a show on HRT soon? It's about that level of journalism. But what I wanted to say here is that we should get to know our children in different ways and tell them about the differences from the earliest age, not just to advocate our political views on the public media as Mrs Markic does.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31281	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. Answer, distinguished colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31282	Well, fellow Maras, the other day in one debate, I was saying that when we talk about the education system from the earliest age of kindergarten to college, then the goal of this education system is not only to create quality engineers, doctors, lawyers but rather to create good people, and this is achieved in a way that through the entire education system there are educational components. Because what exactly is learning? We in schools first adopt some information that becomes knowledge. With that knowledge, we acquire some skills, and then these skills give us competences. And then out of all that, we get valuable courts. In this way, such value courts will certainly not be discriminatory and will not create children who will insult other children just because they are different.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31283	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. The next debate was held on behalf of the Croatian People's Party's Club of Representatives, the Croatian Party of Retired Persons reported a distinguished colleague, Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31284	I'd like to thank the Vice President, my esteemed colleagues, and my esteemed colleagues. Here's the theme of establishing a National Fight Against Peer Violence Day. I am extremely supportive of this subject, and I support that the more we talk about this subject, the more we can raise awareness of our citizens as well. Because I believe that every time we mention this topic if at least ten people recognize the problem and if at least 10 people see the problem around them, I think we can contribute partially to the improvement in the Republic of Croatia. Looking at a variety of research that really has quite a number and counterpart Jovanovic also cited one survey and figures. I took out each other's data. And few of them looking at and analyzing a man simply remains shocked by the results of research in our schools. The Peace Studies Centre worked last year on a survey that resulted in 79% of students in schools where they conducted research being perpetrators and victims of violence. 79% is really more than a shocking number. 76% of the students were gossiped and gossiped, 50% of the students were involved in some minor physical incidents of the type of pushing, 40% of the students pushed other students, 42% of the students were hit by their colleagues while 37% were hit by colleagues. In fact, 51% of them do not know how to prevent violence and how to counter the violence that is happening. Here's this day, the so-called day. Pink T-shirts have been marked in the world since 2007, and I am extremely glad that we finally have the opportunity to establish that day in Croatia. I think that day will lead to many actions. So it won't be just one day where we'll have pink shirts to warn about this problem, but I believe that various civil society and school associations will also get involved, mark that day, and more and more of that problem to point out, talk to children, try to reach conclusions on how to prevent it. Unfortunately, we see for ourselves that our society is deeply lacking in tolerance, is deeply lacking in respect for one another, and that is something we should work hard on. You mentioned this Luke Ritz, who unfortunately ended tragically. I would like to recall an example of a girl from my Zagorje who committed suicide in 2013 because of the insults she experienced on social networks. So it's not just about the physical violence that's happening to each other, but lately there's more and more violence on social networks. Children are unfortunately spending more time on social networks and on the Internet than on the outside, more than in each other's communication, and here is the problem of their mutual violence of insults that unfortunately in 2013, there was a suicide of a little girl. What was even more shocking after the news came out that the girl had killed herself, the insult on the Internet to her did not stop. So the kids were still insulting her, so let her kill herself, that's really scary. And I think we need to open this topic as much as possible, the more we talk about this topic, because here I'm telling you, if we talk about this speaker once, and if only ten people understand the problem and see the problem and start something to improve the situation, I think we're going to do a lot of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31285	I thank my esteemed colleague Maria Puh for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first came to the replica, the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31286	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Puh. So you presented your statistics on peer violence and in some ways said that society does not know how to prevent violence. So basically we're dealing with the consequences now, and we actually need to deal with the cause. I have participated in several international trainings on this issue and let me pass on to you in one sentence the taste of everything I learned there, and the taste is that children become violent when they do not make daily contact with their mother first and then with their father, and then children become violent when they do not make contact with nature. Sounds very banal, but these are the key causes of violence. We live in a society where mothers spend half an hour or an hour a day with their children. You might know that yourself if you're a mother. This is not enough for the child to receive all the attention and love he must receive in his childhood, and it is all caused by the fact that mothers are forced to work inextricably two, three jobs and after regular work and earning more money because they are unable to secure their basic existence by paying for their family’s directors and food. And the more we mothers pressure or social workers, the more people to be virtually slaves of the modern age, the more they will be alone, the more they will feel lonely and abandoned and will result in violence. Thus, the cause is in society, and it is not the cause among the peers themselves. No one in nature is born evil or aggressive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31287	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31288	So here I agree that we should primarily start with family and primarily start with children from the earliest age in learning mutual tolerance and relationships. Unfortunately, it is quite a time for children today to spend in front of televisions and similar computer games and computers on which they are exposed to inappropriate content for them. What shocks me is this content that is now offered for children in the morning if you have the opportunity to watch on television most often, so here are the cartoons that show up for children it's something extremely unacceptable for me at all that something like that can be done for children who are full of violence, a lot of things that let's just say to the wicked. Except that parents are in charge of teaching children from the earliest time I feel that, among other things, education should start from both kindergartens and elementary schools. So more elementary schools are neither the beginning nor kindergartens, because unfortunately, parents often try to be friends with their children and do not correct so many of their wrong guidelines in which they started in life, so I hope that to a greater extent, everyone will be involved from parents to educators, to teachers and students, and to teach children tolerance and understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31289	I thank my esteemed colleague Maria Puh for her reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31290	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues, you have well established, there are many causes among peer violence, and only violence is the result of all these causes. When we look at who one of our former ministers was, we know where he's getting his roots from. When a school counselor takes from his political colleague a mistress, a girl and puts her on a consulting post with a salary of 12,000 kuna without previous insights into her abilities and how she will be assigned to the workplace in the first place. Or when one of his party friends in health education teaches children as little bread starch as possible to cut bread that he will be more sitiated and puts into it topics such as peer violence there is no success. And this same minister who finds it appropriate and appropriate to read some portals like Index and here in the Croatian Assembly quote them against his distinguished colleagues, and so this colleague finds something for him. On behalf of the school party, he threw out the believers, refused '91. Treat the defenders, then trade the drugs. And the cream at the end, in high school, followed a schoolmate who went to Paris with the church for Christmas. And that was the minister who now from that former post tells us about peer violence in schools, who neglects, to read again what, 7,000 signatures of his professors, colleagues, employees, with everything to do? So to protect the unhappiness of those same advisors with a salary of 12,000 kuna and who is a wife or girlfriend or mistress, whatever, from his colleague. Or the one in charge of health care with cutting bread starch as thin as possible to make you less. That's my contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31291	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cule. Dear colleague Culey, you are in your replica except for the fact that you have touched the subject a little bit off the subject, so I ask you to stay away from such behaviours in the future and talk about the subject, that you stick to the topic discussed in the replica. The reply to the replica, I apologize to my esteemed colleague Jovanovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31292	Mr. Vice President, Article 238 was injured, and I insist that you remind counsel Steve Culei, who slandered me personally in the ugliest way, quoting the portal I call drekno.hr, insulted a fellow member of Parliament representative Sasa Djujic, insulted a valuable woman who did her job not because she was someone's mistress, wife, fiancée but because she had all the skills, skills and competence for the work she was doing. I, too, insist that you give him a warning because, precisely under Article 238, he was demeaning and insulting the parliamentary representatives. In this case, two parliamentary representatives, Sasa Djujic, and me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31293	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his injury to the Rules of Procedure. As far as the infringements of Rules of Procedure are concerned, you have well quoted what is normal in this article. I, as chairman, do not see the elements of the warning even though I have already warned my colleague once about it. So if it continues with that, then I will act on the basis of that article. Dear colleague Culley, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31294	According to Article 238, I was going to complain about my colleague’s reading with Index.hr where my son is personally insulting me at the lowest level. And since you say there aren't any elements, then none of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31295	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cule. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Maria Puh. Here you go. You're giving up? Thank you very much for your contribution. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31296	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. Here we go back to the topic, a colleague mentioned social networks as one danger, that was talked about yesterday, but it's an interesting case, actually tragic what happened right in Croatia Zagorje. I said yesterday, today I'm gonna say it again, 50% has grown... suicides due to bulling or peer violence in America for the last 30 years, and that's something we really need to pay attention to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yesterday in one conversation, I said that the kids had chalk, so they wrote on the wall, the real wall, and I would write something offensive, today that chalk, given that they have cell phones in their hands, they have always in their hand and these walls, and that's what we call them, actually social networks all the time, it's written in them. And that's one, one way of violence against peers that we today, very difficult to control, but maybe this is an opportunity to sensitize our parents a little, first of all, to control children in this form of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31297	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31298	Well, I agree with you colleagues, as far as the Internet is concerned, about the protection of children, the protection of their data, the data is becoming astounding and scarier. The fact is, kids today have cell phones literally before they go to school. The fact is, on those phones, they have some apps, social networks and stuff. And it really should be maximum appeal to parents that the more they try to have some control over those phones because simply the dangers that lurk and from the Internet, the longer people are not aware of them until they experience them themselves on their own skin. This example that I mentioned, here it ended in a terribly tragic way and left a trail but unfortunately it was talked about for maybe a month, behind it no one mentioned the dangers that are happening and the other potentially potential that we don't even know that they might be on some edge, that the children are already exhausted and they simply don't dare to help themselves in any way, so they should definitely take as much care of the children and especially of that, about their window in the world, because in these phones believe me, there's everything and everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31299	I thank my esteemed colleague Maria Puh for her reply. We move on to the next individual debate, distinguished colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31300	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here we are now getting here a motion for a decision to declare the National Day of Fight against peer violence. So I think that this decision of ours is actually going to be one of the top hypocrisis, I would dare say cynicism. Because the introduction of this day won't but not a bit, not by a millimeter to reduce peer violence. That's one Pilate hand-washing problem. Let me get the evidence for this, maybe seemingly a little absurd thesis. In this House, we adopted a decision on July 10th to make the 10th national day of Nikola Tesla. And then what? The monument of Nikola Tesla in Gospić was mined in '91. A year. Well, it's not mined because Tesla invented electricity, it's not done by opponents of electricity. The monument was mined because Tesla was a Serb. Okay. It was the years of war in '91, it could be understood the frustration of the one who mined the monument. But we didn't return that monument until today to Gospić. But not because the monument is bad, it was done by Krsinić, one of Croatia's largest sculptors. Such a monument exists on the waterfalls of Niagara, but it does not exist in Gospić, it is not returned to Gospić. I'm asking again for a reason? Well, not because the monument is bad, but because Tesla is a Serb, and in Gospić is ruled by HDZ, and in Croatia is ruled by HDZ. And Prime Minister Plenkovic is the head of HDZ and may order the local HDZ chief to return Krsinic's monument there, as the monument is poured out, he is waiting to be set up. Well, as we have declared the day of Nikola Tesla, and we have not returned the monument, so today we declare the day of battle, the National Day of Fight against peer violence. How do you fight peer violence? I mean first education, no better way. The repression is certainly not a method. But how do we educate children when we're a society that cultivates a cult of violence, we cultivate a cult of violence. There's been an attack on the LGBT community, and then on public television, the attack is relatable. There's a message that calls for violence. What was a 18-year-old Iraqi asylumist supposed to beat up in Karlovac? What was in the minds of his peers? One of them is underage. Who suffers the violence of a peer? The one who's different, who's single. For example, it stands out by either lower growth or wearing glasses, so it's called "the deadlock" or the other one is a nationality, or it's another religion, it's different, it's weaker. And that's why he suffers violence. But that's what violence is taught. See how that can be prevented now? So first of all, by introducing health care to schools where children would be interpreted by psychologists as overcoming frustration, anger, some human feeling. Because it's all human feelings. How do you overcome it without violence? That's one way. The other way is for us as a society to emanate different messages, but we don't. The President of the Republic tells our esteemed colleague Pupovac, if he doesn't like it, let him go. The prime minister tells respected scientist Djikic, if he does not like it there, not realizing that one Djikic is worth 5 hundred Plenkovics. Politicians come and go and forget them and no one will know who Plenkovic is when Djikic wins the Nobel Prize. Everyone will forget Plenkovic. We're a society that sends such messages to young people, that it's possible to act that way. And those who should be authorities, which are primarily the institutions of the state and the president and the prime minister and this Parliament. So today, if young people watch the Parliament and the conduct of fellow Culei, what else can they learn rather than violence. It's a call, that behavior is an invitation to violence. That behavior means here's how you behave, attack others, insult maybe one day you'll become a parliamentary representative. It's not easy to cultivate a society of tolerance. I would be much happier if instead we had received a legal proposal, because we have the Law on Discussing Discrimination, the Law on Anti-Corruption, the Law on Discussing Disruption in Sports Competitions, the Law on Facilitating Violence in the Family. It might be a good idea to pass the Law on the Prevention of Peer Violence, so that we can introduce these health care laws as a mandatory subject at school, ban the sale of plastic guns as toys. To ban the use of video games with violent content, perhaps we would sincerely try to combat peer violence. This is how we're going to declare the day like Nicola Tesla's Day and do absolutely nothing to prevent this huge problem. This is where we asked for a break this morning to warn of the non-distribution of the Discrimination Strategy. Why doesn't the government bring that strategy? Why? Because the current government believes that the strategy has too many rights for national minorities and does not recognise gender equality. And because they took Mr. Ilcic as one minister's advisor. Well, we all know what Mr. Ilcic thinks about it and his influence on this government because it's obviously so strong that there's no strategy to combat discrimination. So, as a society, we have to ask ourselves what kind of community we want to build, whether a community of people who respect each other or a community who will yell at the stadiums "Kill, kill a Serb!", "Kill, kill a faggot!", who in the Assembly will say to each other, "Come back from where you came from!" What kind of community do we want? I know what I want. I don't know if I share that desire with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31301	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused a really significant number of replicas, so let's start from the beginning. The first is then the distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31302	Dear Representative Stazic, I'm sorry as if you're in some past time because you're repeating as a mantra redistribution. You're the one who encourages intolerance, which causes latent aggression in humans. We're talking about praise for a valuable initiative, and as much as you're saying that society is in a hypocrisis on the one hand, you're saying that it's not a good thing they're not going to do anything, on the other hand you insist on the strategy, so you mention Nikola Tesla. So I've mentioned before, zero tolerance to violence must not have any ideological colour, you're just saying that. And now I'm going to tell you the example that happened a few years ago at HZMO where the then director who had to be replaced for financial dues, Dr. Tamara Poljicanin did the following, came in one specialization candidate, she was pregnant, she asked when you were due, the girl said about Easter. And she says, and then who's going to be the child's horoscope sign, this one says so I don't know what the horoscope signs are, I know that the child will be born around Easter. After that, the principal's answer was you know which one, we don't receive and they didn't receive that candidate. Is that the tolerance you're talking about? Let's not mix pears and apples. It should be condemned that the monument of Nikola Tesla was destroyed at the time at which it was destroyed. But what did you do while the government of Zoran Milanovic was? Did you encourage a union or do you do what you're doing again? I'm sorry that as an experienced parliamentary representative for us young people here, you play some theatre artist, not a parliamentary representative behind your words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31303	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31304	I'll start at the end, first I don't play theater artist, I do. Maybe bad for your court, maybe good for someone else's court, but I certainly don't play it. I doubt you can judge who I am because I doubt you're watching any of my shows, and maybe if you've seen any shows in your life I don't know. You say I live in the past, if only alive in the past tense. If only you had lived in the past and this is the problem we're talking about the past, but unfortunately that problem is the present. You say the fight against violence must not have an ideological background, but ideologically, violence for its basis has ideology. And that's why we can't talk about fighting violence without talking about ideology, we can't. We can't if she's basically, if she's the root of that violence or you all think she's gonna kill her, kill the Serb that it's not an invitation to violence, that it's a friendly greeting to the game, so I shouldn't talk about it as violence. If that's what you think, then I fully understand your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31305	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31306	You think, Stazic, you say that the best deceivers are the ones who deceived themselves, so I'm really wondering if you really believe what you're saying. You are... a party that has introduced not only intellectual violence into this society but a culture of deception that has committed democracy, aristocid, late genocide, etocide of the Croatian people. You're talking about never Tesla, what don't you say hundreds of churches of Croatian destroyed, hundreds of thousands of expelled, murdered, raped, expelled. Who do you work for in this House? Who are you talking about here? When we talk here about violence in schools you have an example of one, the Croatian officer from BiH children are victims of violence at school which encourages urban racists in Croatia, they are these... communists just because they are from BiH. Why isn't that what you're talking about? Why is this perverse nobility not talked about by a political who today rules the Croatian media space, which today deceives and executes intellectual terror on the Croatian people, and you are part of that project? Who are you kidding here? Why don't you say they're protecting the greatest criminal in the history of humanity 10 after Paul Pot, there's a square in Zagreb and you're protecting the largest political organization criminal in the history of this Southeast Europe outside the Soviet Union, and that's the KPJ, you're not talking about it. How long are we going to listen to these delusions? It's better to have a lie detector here, if you really believe what you're talking about here, I think he'd melt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31307	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31308	You're saying why I'm not talking about broken churches, the churches in the war have been torn down disgustingly, disgustingly, creepyly, but they've been restored to happiness and restored. Tesla's monument was torn down and not restored, not returned, which is why I'm talking about him, so my colleague Glasnovic. You're saying that I'm protecting the greatest criminal in history that has a square in Zagreb, you're probably thinking of Tito. 127 delegations and 123 countries of the world came to his funeral, do you think so many delegations from so many countries would come to the funeral of a criminal? No, the anti-fascists came, they came to bow down to him. Neslson Mandela didn't collect any more delegations at his funeral either. That you hate that man because he's an anti-fascist, that's your business. In democracy you have the right even to such hatred, but do not spread it around the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31309	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31310	Dear Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic, I'm actually disappointed, I must say, very, you've been talking for 10 minutes, two more lines, one 14 minutes but you haven't mentioned partisans and Ustashas. Here you will have a few more replicas, so please go on about it, it's your favorite topic because you're the one who always brings us back to these topics in the Assembly, so don't let us go through today without this topic, even though the topic is peer violence you've managed to mention to the LGBT community, you also mentioned Nikola Tesla. Well, I think about Nikola Tesla we all have a consensus here. Not a consensus, but that we're all proud of that man. He is, then, the product of this people, and he is the product of this country, of this space. And then you're talking about it here as if you were mentioning a party in power, mentioning the Croatian government. I think the context and the way you speak is actually unacceptable. You're mentioning Mr. Ilcic again. I said earlier at the stop, that's where you're most itchy actually. You're itchy because he showed you that your associations that you've supported fatally for millions of kunas without going to one member, how they actually did that agenda of yours, what you wanted. And as far as health care is concerned, it's you for health care, but it's the one you just said you were in the past tense. The medical education you're going to make means you're no longer raising a child in the family but only a school but you're not up for a choice. We are also for health education but the possibility of choosing that after two programmes that a parent can decide how his child will be raised in the institution. But you're not normal for democracy, it's formal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31311	Thank you. The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31312	You're saying I keep going back in time. Yes, because that past is the source of a cult of violence in our society, I'm convinced of that. This cult of violence stems from this past, violence is taught, children are not born violently, violence is learned from the environment, from the environment. Why health care? So, you say health care for the past tense, that I want health care for the past tense. If that's past time, the time of tolerance then I am for health care and past tense. That's what I said in my debate. I did that in this health education pedagogosis, psychologists teach children how to overcome frustration, how to accept others even though they're different from ourselves, it's learning to tolerate, I am for such health care. That kind of health education doesn't suit you, not to you, not to Ilcic, not to you, not to Ilcic. You are not for men and women to be equal; you are not for Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks to be equal; you are not for whites and coloreds to be equal; you are together with Ilčić against it. What I can do for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31313	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31314	This Regulation shall enter into I'm not for brotherhood and unity. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31315	Of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I pray and I pray all nicely to be,... Do not throw away my colleague Stazic, I ask my colleagues not to abuse the institution's injury to the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is known exactly what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, if you do not know, you have had enough time to read the Rules of Procedure, read it, and when it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, then we will discuss it and when it is not, do not abuse it, please. Now we will, the next replica will be given by the esteemed Steve Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31316	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Stazić, talk about Never Tesla and do nothing in your time when you are in power to raise that monument or the memory of Nikola Tesla to the right level, it is in the style of the theatre actor mentioned and who you are, in fact you were always an actor and at the time you acted to love and want Croatia as well as the entire Croatian people but you later and revealed yourself daily. And on the day you left the Croatian Parliament, you and your colleagues, when you left Croatia for the mercy and mercy of the great Serbian aggression, you also betrayed Nikola Tesla because I, whatever I was with my friends, was in this Gospić and kept the house of Nikola Tesla and the possible relatives of Nikola Tesla from their countrymen and also from similar to them, and I managed to defend as much with Tomislav Mercep as my friend and this Our Lady whose honor is a citizen. And I know you're gonna mention him and I'm deliberately talking about him and I'm gonna talk about him. And I'll talk one more way. You say be like Culej and you will come to the Croatian Parliament, so of course you forget something about me, I am both Croatian and Zagorac and locksmith and one of them was an idol in your life and you deny me, I have to wear that pink or orange or black shirt because of your violence against me or your peers who you spend here on them and talk to them about time as if they didn't live in that time and know nothing about that time. You who say the past time, you regret the past time, so go back to that time of yours, come back, you don't have to go far to Bajakovo, whoever doesn't fit Croatian time, Croatian present and Croatian future should go as a relic of the past,... Wherever he wants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what our president is talking about. That's what she's talking about, who she doesn't like around here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31317	The reply of the distinguished representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31318	You say you are not at the time when you were in power to return the monument of Nikola Tesla to Gospić. We'd give it back if we could, but the decision on it is made by local self-government. You don't know that's why you say that. Local self-government belongs to HDZ, that's what I'm talking about. Mr. Plenkovic is the president of HDZ and he is in a position to make that decision if he is willing to implement it within 24 hours. It is said you left at the mercy of Croatia's aggression. No, the SDP didn't. Neither is Zeljko Jovanovic, whom you insult here. He was a defense attorney. When he came back, they wouldn't bring him back to work because he was a Serb national. He lost his job because he was defending the country. You said you were in Gospić. And my brother was a defender there. And I as a defender, as a soldier, as a soldier with a gun. I wasn't in combat units, but President Tudjman decorated me with the Homeland War monument and the Flash medal. I was in the non-combat sector, reporting from the battlefield. But there was a Dr. Hebrang in the non-combat sector. You're not attacking him. Do not insult us that we have left to the mercy of the earth. You are proud of your friend Mercep, who you say is an honorary citizen of Gospić, and perhaps because Tomislav Mercep is an honorary citizen of Gospić, a man who has been convicted of war crimes for 7 years, perhaps that is why there is no monument of Nikola Tesla in Gospić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31319	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31320	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Stazic, you are the largest mini-miner of this House to discuss Croatia's future. You all miniminate what should be said in this House about the future of these children and the future of our Croatia. The most important thing for you is that you don't talk about it. I ask you a question when you keep saying that Serbs in Croatia are not enough to admit and continue genocide. No one in Vukovar has been convicted for more than three and a half years and only one man. You're talking about Merchep as a criminal, you. Mr. Stazic, hundreds of churches have been destroyed in Bosnia's Pavina. None of the Serbian republics have restored, none of them. What are you talking about? What history are you talking about? About Tito? We all know how it was declared in the world not to repeat it. Nikola Tesla has a monument in Zagreb in the square and the entire Croatian people respect it and do not hate it, and you want the Croatian people to hate it. None of the Croatian citizens want Tesla's monument to collapse, and that's less important. Finally, there is a museum that the Croatian state has restored and that exists in his house. You're degrading everything, nothing's wrong. You didn't say the other day when they called our foreign minister to Ustasha, that we were all Ustashas. And I'm everyone else in Croatia. How are you not ashamed to speak so much nonsense in the House? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31321	Thank you. Dear Representative Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31322	I thank you for the compliment that I'm talking nonsense because when you tell me I'm talking nonsense, then I'm honored. You're saying I'm not talking about the future, so I'm calling for the future to make us a society of tolerance, to pass the Law on the prevention of violence among peers, to act in this way to introduce health education and to teach future generations to tolerate life. I'm talking about the future, but you either don't hear it or you don't understand it. You're saying I'm talking about Mercep as a criminal. Well, I didn't condemn Mercep. I condemned the courts in Croatia. The court in Croatia said Mercep was a criminal and sentenced him to 7 years in prison. That bothers you. So I can understand you, I can understand you. You're saying in Republika Srpska that it's been destroyed, that Catholic churches have been destroyed and haven't been restored. So what do I have to do with Republika Srpska? So am I the representative of the Republika Srpska Assembly? So what do I do, so how do I influence her to rebuild those churches? How? In what way? Well, you come from those parts. You're saying I'm doing something. Not me here in all the answers to the replica and in my basic presentation I was always against minering, and even when it comes to mineing monuments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31323	The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31324	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Stazic, I've been watching some of your shows and I think you're a gifted actor. But sometimes in this House it's so much fun that it's more fun than theater. You mentioned hypocrisis and cynicism, and be honest, so tell me that the good part of your exposure was actually in that tone and you used it abundantly. You mentioned several tragic events or incidents, but what I agree with is that as a society we cultivate a culture of violence you said and you said that it's not easy to cultivate a culture of tolerance. I really agree with that. And about the incidents from the Nikola Tesla monument mine to the attack on the club. I personally don't really like the abuse of any tragic event or incident for political purposes. But now let's be objective and say that's exactly what happened in case we throw tear gas at this club. Because after the incident, an assembly was immediately organized, and the rally was political. We speak objectively. And now at that rally, he's pointing his finger at me, and I've even felt called, which is amazing with all those who don't belong explicitly to the left political spectrum as potential culprits, in a way he condemns us, calls for tolerance, and at the same time he's broadcasting intolerance from those who call for tolerance, so isn't that absurd? And I'd say a subtle hate speech is the same hate speech, and we know that hate creates new hatred. And why do you think your exposure caused the largest number of replicas? And in the long run looking there you'll probably agree with me that from tear gas is much, much more dangerous to society and it's historically proven every populism is just a step to fascism. So are we going that way in ten years?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31325	Thank you. The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31326	Dear colleagues, you say you watched my show and I'm a talented actor. I'm not an actor, I write theater pieces or I write them. The actor is my brother. You may have replaced me, but I'm glad you at least looked at a play unlike some of your colleagues. You resent me talking about our society as a society that cultivates a culture of violence. Yeah, I see it that way and I'm sorry and I'd like it to change. And I invite you to do it with me, to change it, to have no aggressive statements, to have no offensive tones when it comes to someone who's different, to accept you differently, that's the kind of society I want. And I want us to raise children in such a way that they live in a better world in a more tolerated state in a more tolerated atmosphere than the one that is today ruling in Croatia. So what's wrong with that? And you're saying that I've caused the largest number of replicas in HDZ, so obviously that bothers you, that's my call to build a tolerance society, so it's obvious that you don't want that kind of society, so that's why you're doing so much replicating. You say the LGBT community rally was political, so of course it was political because the attack on them was politically motivated. So what's the tear gas on them for? Well, not because they came there to dance, but because they belong to a community that this society doesn't want, part of this society, doesn't want to accept, doesn't want to accept, and they'd rather be tear gas, and if they had something more efficient, then they'd use something more efficient. That's what I'm talking about. And that's where I invite you to protect this LGBT community together. And you know why? Because there's more of us, there's fewer of them. And because they're smaller, they're more powerless, and that's why they need protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31327	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31328	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic. So I don't agree that this announcement of the day doesn't make sense. True, maybe it's just a fig leaf, maybe it's just a cover-up of what we always talk about in general about violence we had there recently and a topic about domestic violence, maybe we're just washing our hands there, but still let that day be so that at least that day we can talk about it, let that day, even if someone enlightens our minds, and maybe we can save a life. We always talk about the system of values when we talk about these topics. Our society rests on values if we want both cultural and civilizational which certainly does not belong to violent society. Our society is by no means violent individuals and those who abuse these values, especially those who perform in public life, I agree with that. People who distort values, who rely on values that have been cast out knowingly, or who do not understand them, and then create problems. Here we have seen today if you have seen in the media Ms Marijana Petir opposes the recommendations of the European Commission's recommendation in one of her articles which wishes to grant special long-term legal status for robots so that the most sophisticated autonomous robots may have electronic status. Mrs. Petyr is opposed to that, and you know why? Out of ignorance because she thinks the values of this society rests on the contrary. These values are updated accordingly. Jesus said in one place they say that if you are persecuted in one city, you are fled to another, and in another place he said if you are struck on one cheek turn the other to them. So what do we do now if I run or turn my cheek? You know when these values are interpreted, then there's a problem. And I say some people do it consciously. As far as Nicola Tesla and I are concerned, the smart guys changed their school during the war, kicked out the name Nikola Tesla, you know. But that's what individuals did, that's what people did because they don't understand. One pulled out the fuses and said I don't want any more Serbian power coming into my house, a man who doesn't understand. That cha doesn't even rest on a system of values simply on a misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31329	Thank you. The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31330	You did say the place was called a smart guy or whatever you said, and the smart guys made it. Look, I'm not against being declared this day, I'm just saying that it's one Pilate handwashing, nothing, it's cynicism. We're gonna declare the day and we're gonna think we did something, and we're not actually doing anything. Why am I talking about the society of a cult of violence? Look, when it happens that at the football stadium he goes either with a Ustasha greeting or kills, kill the Serbian game must be interrupted, the stadium is empty. So how many broken games, how long did it take, and then one day we're going to root it out, for sure. But then we'd be a society that has such a message we won't give, we won't let you, we won't let you, we won't let you embarrass this society anymore. If we were to make such decisions, then I'd say we don't wash our hands, work in the interest of the future, work in the interest of our children. And like this, they watch it on TV, they think it's allowed, the president's policy likes such cheerleading she said it was heart-enhancing, some kind of a statement like that she gave. You're saying that Mrs. Pettir is making some statements out of ignorance, so I'm calling for it, to introduce health education, to introduce knowledge, to turn on the light that Tesla invented, let's not go on living in the dark, no matter how these smart-asss of yours changed the name of school, imagine they lifted the name of Nikola Tesla, I don't know how they gave it, I don't know how much better they could give than what it was. But they did it to shame the Croatian people, not only to their shame. It's a shame if you want yours and mine. They embarrassed me, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31331	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative, God Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31332	Your exhibition is problematic with several aspects, so you can link the destruction of Nikola Tesla's monument, in Gospić with an inter-prime settlement, so it can even be potentially harmful. Why? We are therefore witnesses in Croatia, unfortunately still in the international, national, international violence. Did you ask yourself before you said these words about how it might affect these young people? On the other hand, your claim that scientist Ivan Djikic is 5 hundred times more valuable than Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is problematic with several aspects. First, scientist Ivan Djikic did not leave Croatia this week but in '92. year, 'cause it's been since '92. the year until '97. the year was at Josef Schlesinger's lab in New York, and then after that... at the institute in Sweden and afterwards at the Goethe Institute in Frankfurt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also at that time, some people came to Croatia from Venezuela, Australia, New Zealand, to defend Croatia, and in any case if they followed patriotism, I would rather resort to this patriotism of our people who were not even born in Croatia. I'm proud of Mr. Djikic's successes. But I am even more proud of scientist Ivo Tolic who returned to Croatia and works here and brings millions of donations from the EU year to year. Your claim is also problematic, so you know what Mr. Ilcic means. Another thing who gave you a moral meter license, so a meter of measurement of the value of your system and Mr. Ilcic? Who gives you the right to claim that your value system is more valuable and especially when you say we know what Mr. Ilcic means, it reminds me deeply of the past when marriage is always and unspeakably said I condemn you because we know what you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31333	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31334	Here, I'll start at the end. I told me we know what Ilcic thinks, so yeah, we know because what he thinks and says, I don't have other sources than Ilcic is what he thinks and says. Well, that's how I know what he thinks. Don't hold it against me and take it as evil. You're telling me where I got my system measuring license? From Croatian citizens, I got a license from them because they chose me in these elections to speak in this House on their behalf, in the name of their minds, in the name of those who would want light and not dark, that's where my license came from. You say Djikic and Plenkovic, there is no politician who is not forgotten very quickly. Djikic is one constant, Đikic is not only a Croatian value, it is a world value. I want you to live a long life and experience it with the pride of all of us if one day they give him the Nobel Prize. But I just hope you remember this replica of yours and look in the floor of shame for not stopping at the defense of that man.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31335	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31336	Comrade Stazic, you have listed here certain groups or parties, or party members as violent but the whole topic has been led here to declare the national day of combating peer violence. And you're in one part of your replica and speech essentially talking about the totalitarian regime and glorifying it and you know that, you're like... the day of memory of all victims of all totalitarian regimes of fascist, Nazi, as well as communist and all victims should bow down and all the sacrifices from all the caves to be taken out and dignifiedly buried during all these totalitarian regimes was Nazi, was fascist and whom you glorify communist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The criminal is a criminal, the victim is a victim. The moment we bow down to all the victims, then Croatia will have a future. This rhetoric of yours is returning to the past by imposing the the thesis that the entire Croatian people are against Nikola Tesla, against Serbs, I live with these people, Serbs in the village together and I am proud of these people and I will fight for them. I'm even the chairman of the local committee. I'm proud of them because they're extremely honest, patriotic and just people who leave a big lead in my place, in my neighborhood, in my city. And you're dividing people into ideological, secular, here's the thing and we're... and we have the right to express our views and here we were talking about a national day against peer violence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You went that the Croats are criminals, that the Croats, so of course you don't react when the Serbian president or someone says we're Ustasha and they're Chetniks, I'm not talking against the Serbs, against the Chetniks. That's where you don't react. And get back on the subject, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31337	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31338	Mr. Bully, I'm amazed how wrong someone can understand someone else's words. I wasn't even talking about the Second World War victims. I didn't say one single sentence about it. One single sentence Insect Reiner: Let's not throw please from the bench./... [[Why didn't you? Because why didn't I? Now this guy's throwing me a Glasovic why I didn't, so I'm not going back in time because I'm talking about the future. .../]] Because I'm talking about the future and that's the basic message of my speech. Let's abandon the cult of violence, cultivate a society of tolerance, cultivate a society of respect. Let's leave the past to the historians, but that someone can take it wrong, misunderstood or misunderstood, I'm impressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31339	The next replica and the last of it is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31340	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So you've expanded and expanded the subject quite a bit, you've given a few examples that don't have much contact with the agenda point. But in two things I can agree with you, which is that every form of violence needs to be condemned and that violence is learned by examples from the environment. Well, here's a case you haven't touched, and it might be good if you touched it. The example is from Varazdin County, here's a title, and here I have 30 newspaper articles listed that local politicians from Ludbreg have involved political accounts. Deputy Mayor Alen Kisic, SDP, is mentioned. Ivana Pomahač class, SDP. Dubravko Bilic, mayor of SDP. Everyone in the story is SDPs. So is this one bad example that should also condemn where adults are, politicians have taken advantage of children. Look, they also drove them to pre-election assemblies. There's a SDP tent in the background. And would it be good to condemn this case here in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31341	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31342	I wasn't familiar with this case from Karlovac, but here's my colleagues telling me it's the thing, Varazdin, but they're telling me now that it was identity theft. So identity theft. And, dear God, people steal. Some steal money through FIMI Media, some steal identities. What do you want? There are people like that. You're saying my debate has nothing to do with the agenda. There is, because my thesis is that violence is taught, that man is not born violent, violence is taught. And if a young person around him, if he is surrounded by examples of violence, examples of hate speech, tolerance of that violence, reduction of the importance or danger of that violence, then it is far more likely that she herself will be violent, far more likely. But that's my basic thesis. And because violence is taught, what one who has been exposed to violence often becomes a bully, one who sees violence often becomes a bully. That's why I'm calling to do more than declare the day. We have a President-in-Office of the Parliament who is a psychiatrist, and I call on these professions to encourage him, to form a task force, or to influence the Prime Minister to make such a law. And I said what should be put in it. And the ban on selling plastic weapons as toys. What do kids have to play with guns? Why does a gun have to be a toy? Because that's the cult of violence, because that's how we create it. That's the road, that's the pattern. That's what I'm calling for. And I won't stop calling.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31343	Thank you very much. Before we move on to further discussion, I would remind you all to look at Rules of Procedure and Article 238, which initially says that a representative should talk about the subject which is subject to discussion, and if he does not speak about the subject is subject to sanctions. As you've seen, of course, I've allowed now a departure from the topic in every possible and impossible direction. It was said that this was more fun than the theater. No, this is sad, this is sad. This is sad because we are seen by citizens who have chosen us, and we are talking about a topic called the National Day of Fight against peer violence from the monument of Nikola Tesla, Tito's crimes, Mr Mercep, shouting at matches, statements by Mrs Petir about robots, Đikiæ, alleged identity thefts, and I don't know what else I should have counted, so that everything has nothing to do with the declaration of the National Day against peer violence. I appeal to everyone that in their performances and replicas we stick to the subject. We can vote when the themes are voted, other topics. We vote on topics, we vote on agendas. But if we vote him, then we stick to him. If we have a Rules of Procedure, we stick to the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise I repeat, this isn't fun, this is sad. The individual debate was attended by a respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31344	Mr. Vice President, I agree with you that part of this debate was really sad and completely unnecessary. Most colleagues spoke very constructively about this topic almost yesterday and with quality proposals aimed at not only being declared for the sake of order, but actually benefiting from this, which will reduce international violence. I would like to say one more thing at the very end of this debate for the simple reason that we will not be able to be on the occasion of the first day that we will declare "The National Day of Fight against peer violence" because, as far as I know next Wednesday, the Parliament is not in session, and this decision is made to speak and promote "National Day against peer violence". It is the task of all of us as parents, as teachers, as teachers, as politicians, to ensure that in our society the quality of life keeps growing. And when I talk about the quality of life, then the quality of life is gone without freedom. The only real idea of freedom is freedom from fear and that's actually what I want to say. Fear is dealt with primarily by knowledge, by persuasion, by education, by health care. So health education is in Croatian schools, health education is a quality project and I have brought here examples of textbooks for classroom students, for 4th to 8th grade, for high school and these are examples of how we can reduce international violence. I will quote to you what is the obligation of all of us as politicians, so when it comes to the health of young people, the World Health Organization points out that ensuring healthy adulthood is the first task of responsible adults, and we as politicians are probably even more responsible, according to the World Health Organization by 2020, young people should be healthier and have greater opportunities to adopt their living abilities and to make healthy choices, and be trained to take on socially and economically successful roles in the community. The aim is to achieve a 20% increase in youth self-respect, and their ability to develop and maintain relationships with friends and family members, by at least 20% of youth who have chosen non-smoking, a reduction in at least 20% of the occurrence of injuries and the nightmare of youth accidents, a reduction of at least 20% of young people with harmful behaviours such as alcohol, drug use, a 20% reduction of unplanned parenting, a reduction of at least 20% of the incidence of youth suicide and potentially... high risk behaviour, and a reduction of at least 20% of the difference of all those factors among socioeconomic groups. And our project of education and education for health right through healthy life modules, prevention of violent behavior, prevention of addiction, responsible sexual behavior is one of the contributions as well as this day that we will mark can make more sense. Secondly, what I mean is, which unfortunately did not come to life in Croatian schools, which is education and education for civil society and democracy. Therefore, if the curricula reform was not late, we could practically have had civic education and health education as a subject as a teaching course in all schools since this school year. Why am I saying that? So defeating results, our students don't even know what a citizen is or what democracy is, and probably in those definitions lies the prevention of inter-excelral violence. Among the students of the 7th and 8th grade, only 14% of students knew that the most important role of citizens in the democratic state was to monitor the functioning of the government, and in particular, worryingly assessed that each 4th citizen was defined by terms of concern for personal interests. 1/3 of students know that possessing civic virtues means taking care of the interests of the community, and preventing peer violence among other things, about the same amount of violence associated with the possession of civil rights, and more than 1/5 with civilised behaviour, each 10th with a regular vote in elections. Therefore, education and education for civil society and democracy should be prepared for both children and young people to develop a culture of peace, non-violence, respect for human rights and take responsibility for a better understanding of the society in which we live other cultures as well as other political processes and decision-making. All of these are ways of fighting inter-excelral violence. And here to end, I can say that I am proud to come from the city of Rijeka, the city of Rijeka has been teaching IT for years in all schools, has health education, has a healthy diet project but also has a civic education as I believe the only city in Croatia. Here's one textbook, "Student student," and among other things, the topics that students in Rijeka are processing are important to hear and respect others, don't put people in a box, a scooter and a drawer, help the recipients, do the right thing, be a bully is not cool, we can solve it without conflict. So there are good examples, there are good practices, there are good experiences, and I hope that this day will contribute to making these experiences more and much better throughout Croatia, and that discussions such as debates with Steve Culei become really something that we will no longer listen to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31345	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused a series of replicas. The first one is the distinguished representatives of Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31346	Thank you, Vice President. And when you quote me that this is more fun than theater, then it's a fact state, let's just say that I was ironic. We also have comedy and tragedy just to be clear. I agree with my colleague that this initiative cannot prevent violence. No one's even expecting that. Violence, of course, cannot prevent either this initiative, not one law or any institution, because the root of it lies in imitation training, etc. And I'd say that violence, we've heard that a few times already, of course, learn by imitating or experiencing. And the way kids treat other kids is actually like a lacmus paper chemistry. It's the consequence of something, and we've heard it before. But what's even more important to say is that it's important to sensitize, and that's what this initiative is for. Sensitize the public, teenagers of a sensitive group, so when they hear it comes from institutions and then that institution sends something positive, not just some negative picture, some theater of any absurdity of any comedy, any tragedy. It's very important for me to say that violence is inexhaustible and that's what psychologists say and that's the fact. It sounds very ugly, sounds as dramatic as all of this here, but they say that violent people will always find a weak point when one moment they become violent, whether because of the child's weight, whether it looks like it's because I don't know the color of hair, whether it's unpopular, whether it's because of religion, or because I don't know ethnicity, whatever it is that makes them jealous. The bully always finds the victim and the victims are always vulnerable. And it's actually a sad fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31347	Thank you. The answer of the honourable representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31348	Well, yes, of course, only the announcement of the day won't do anything. But here I have an idea, because next week we won't be sitting down to send a memo to all the schools and says it's a day against, a fight against peer violence, and to invite all schools to go on that day to prepare projects for Luke Ritz's award. So last year we had an unforgivable situation that the ministry almost forgot to award the Luke Ritz Prize because it was like only one proposal. Here, let us encourage schools to start evaluating this day and thus encourage young people in schools to discuss the prevention of peer violence more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31349	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31350	Dear Representative Jovanovic, with a significant part of your debate, I would particularly agree with the fact that the most effective means against fear is knowledge. There are three target groups to pay attention to, so these are those who commit violence, those who are victims of violence and those who are witnesses of violence. We saw this terrible event that happened in Slovenia where 250 thousand people looked over the facebook footage where the 26th year old ended up dying of these victims. So, besides psychological, physical, and sexual abuse, electronic abuse has also occurred, which has already been spoken of. The first model of behavior a child adopts is parent. You have already mentioned the role of institutions as educational institutions. I agree with that, too. But then again, the first model of behavior is a parent and everything that we carry from our family is essentially forming us for further, so the responsibility of society, there is a responsibility of schools, there is, but of course the family is a key core, so every society. And in the end, I would say, therefore, about health care, health education, civic education is absolutely necessary. I think there are institutions that need to prepare this quality to get into school as soon as possible. And also, although there are some topics around the world that give people all the information and the ability to choose evenly around certain modules. So the question of violence there is no world-wide difference but in certain modules there is so perhaps in the society in which we live, in a society where democracy and pluralism think that there is therefore a possibility of choosing parents but all that is based on evidence, therefore the records of based medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31351	Thank you. Here's an answer from the esteemed representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31352	I agree, my colleague, so the family is key. Here's a simple message sent by the director of the child protection clinic Dr. Buljan Flander on the day of the hug told her parents to hug your child every day. Let's just ask ourselves, when was the last time we hugged our child, everyone who had kids? As far as health care is concerned, so at first I've claimed I'm still standing behind it there's no such thing as ideology. So every child under the Convention on Children's Rights has the right to receive all information concerning his health. Parents can speak of ways to prevent unwanted pregnancy but a child at school must learn everything modern medicine has provided today. And he's gonna talk to his parents at home and his parents might tell him something else, but no one can deny him information.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31353	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31354	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Mr Jovanovic, I think these topics are not so out of context this morning and we avoid, always looking at the consequences of something, never the causes of it. Not the same violence in the federal prison in America and violence in Croatia, they have their causes. And as we can, for not talking about some key things, you're doctors, first question, the environment of intelligence, the intelligence environment that you take from your environment. Another social biology, why we are who we are. Why don't we look back again at the causes, that there are some members of a party who have bred noble hatred for... enemies where they were parts of, say... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] who beat others and ripped the crosses with her necks all over the schools, derbyed people who were different, who were better dressed, attacked them from the buses, and this drug-communic assembly of course proceeded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look at these graphics all over Zagreb. Another thing I would say is, as you expect young people to expect, if we rule by example, you remember the Index affair, this system is today, which today the government has introduced here in Croatia, into this country a culture of cheating, a false degree. Some people have never worked in their lives, came directly from the kumrov school where a dead doctrine was preached, a self - governing anarchy directly to the Assembly. What example do we set for young people? We're talking about honesty, etc. and some new standards. What can we say if there are in the Supreme Court of People, I think of 40 in the Supreme Court of Judges 29 were members of the Communist Party etc. And we know from SOA that you have 20 judges who are a threat to national security. And what do we expect from such young people when they're watching this here, that yawning and looking at the symptoms and nobody's talking about the causes here, nobody, not in HDZ, not this one, just... And verbal, pardon the expression diarrhoea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31355	The honourable representative will respond. He won't answer. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jovanovic, you said a few things that are really important. And you were talking about raising in schools and curriculative reform or school reform. I think that's where the key is. Because our institutions in a system like this, unfortunately, are more educational, and less educational, and that's what I see as a major problem. And believe me, if there were no people working in that system, dedicated teachers, that system would have collapsed a long time ago and we would have produced and we are now producing students, children who are simply not up to the challenges of modern life. You're talking about healthy students and the skills they need for life. Unfortunately, under the current school program, they don't get it. It all depends on the enthusiasm of those who work with children and it certainly comes from the system... I agree with you that civic education is also extremely important because of the culture of dialogue, culture of tolerance, listening to each other, hearings of their peers, conflicting arguments, etc. and these cultures, unfortunately, are very missing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's also tragic of civic education is the only thing children now get in schools is through politics and society in the final classes of high school where politics is only talked about, excuse politics and the economy, not politics and society. That only talks about politics one semester, where children are already formed people, so graduates. And when it's too late to talk about some values of democracy, civil society and tolerance. That's exactly what we're missing, that's exactly what we're missing, and I think it's the announcement this day, that it's not the solution of the problem, of course, but it's a step towards solving and preventing violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31357	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31358	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic. So all that children learn in schools, so with the knowledge, skills and competences they acquire, from which valuable attitudes come one of the key competences today is civil competence. This civic competence cannot be acquired without a high-quality education and education for civil society and democracy. And this very civic competence speaks of the relationship of man to himself, to classmates, to family, to society, to the community. It encourages children not to be plagiarists, it encourages children when they grow up to go to elections, to vote, to fight for their rights, not to let others decide on them, to fight corruption, and therefore Croatian society will only be better when our children get civil competences that are not presently available.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31359	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31360	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Jovanovic, here I have come to you because in your actual presentation you mentioned the issue of natural citizenship, but you also mentioned the issue of participation of children themselves and of what local self-government is doing. You mentioned a bright example, it's an example of the city of Rijeka, and you should probably do more on that plan, involve children in some way in the integration processes. There are projects, of course, cities of friends of children, cities of friends of county, cities of friends of municipalities involving numerous local units. Some of them started their children's town councils, they have mayors, but I still think it's not enough. Because if we don't do schools together anymore, and local self-government to make children aware that they get involved, to give them the opportunity to make some decisions themselves and to make those decisions as local self-government and to respect them. And I can say that I am also proud to come from a local self-government where we have all of this formed from the children's city council, the mayor of children to the Youth Council and to respect everything that, of course, not all, but the good part of what they're actually looking for in collaboration with schools. That's the only way I think we can create individuals, because of course it's about our children, it's about our young people who will take responsibility tomorrow to lead certain institutions from local self-government to the state. Unless we're actually going to give them the opportunity to influence their current life in the future with their own decisions, they're certainly not going to be able to make quality decisions regarding their lives and the whole of the country. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31361	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31362	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you mentioned a very important thing, which is including in the curricula of all things related, so I would say about all things we can include and connect them to the problem of peer violence. And it's a shame that in a year there's this project of curical reform, and that way I'd say some things that we can fix in the Curiculum, we haven't even done our students, our society, and our teachers are waiting for these things. I would say the progress of technology and social progress requires the constant education of both teachers and teachers in schools related to society, along with the emotional spheres of our students, along with life situations. So without including curricula, there will be no successful fight against peer violence, and on this side it is important that government support, the authorities, so that they can deal with it in a competent way in schools of our teachers, teachers. I remember those quality UNICEF programmes that lasted 10 years in the Republic of Croatia "Stop Violence in Schools". It is therefore necessary to have constant quality support for all levels of society and government in order to adequately address this problem. And I wish the question of the curiculum would be resolved as soon as possible. I am convinced that this is one of the key segments of the fight against peer violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31363	A reply to the replica of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31364	Thank you, colleague Maras. Of course modernising Croatian education and curricula and learning outcomes on completely different principles is something without which there is no Croatian future. What I would like to point out lastly, another project that we have introduced into schools that is extremely high-quality, and this project was designed by the Minister of Science of a Far Away State in Japan, it's judo. So "Judo to School" is actually a project with sport against violence and that is something that is another additional dimension that needs to be particularly encouraged because through the development of sports habits, and judo is a sport that is just developing non-violent conflict resolution. Therefore, with all that we have talked about and sports to a greater extent, there will be another way of preventing interfaith violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31365	Thank you very much. That's what we've ended the debate on this point, I'm the one who concludes it. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31366	The next item is the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Fight against peer violence. The proposal is from the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The debate is closed. The amendment was filed by MP Miro Bulj. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. Nada Turina-Đuric, chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31367	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-15-0.u31368	The proposed amendment is now being included in the Final Proposal for the Law. I am voting on the motion for a decision to declare the National Day of Fight against peer violence. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, we have taken the decision to declare the national day of combating peer violence in the text, as proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, together with the amendment adopted.
