ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24563	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I would ask for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists to get to know the public about the Mitrovica family case, which suffered from a failure to care for the system last Monday in Vinkovci. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24564	Hrelja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24565	Dear Mr. President on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, the Croatian Party of Retirement is seeking a 10 minute break to speak about the co-existence of poverty and discriminatory policies conducted by the Croatian Broadcasting Service.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24566	Thank you. Agent Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24567	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24568	Thank you. Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24569	I am looking for a five-minute break on the subject of the introduction of a mandatory military deadline in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24570	Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24571	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24572	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24573	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a five-minute break on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club to discuss an unsustainable public debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24574	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24575	It's about a military deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24576	Thank you. If there are no more interested, I'll take a break of 10 minutes. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] A few club MPs asked for a break. I'd like the first club of representatives of the HNS-HSU to explain the reason for the break. Their representative, Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24578	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I thank my colleague Panenic for rotating because I have some obligations after this. So, I want to talk today on behalf of the HNS-HSU Club about a paper issued by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is an opinion on bill number 65, and the bill speaks of the completion of the HRT Act. On the basis of this opinion, I can empower the government to have a problem with organisational blindness. It's a term that we know about protection at work, when you go past dangers, and you don't see it. So let me explain. So, in the draft law that we gave in the procedure in December last year, it writes nicely and points out the discriminatory actions carried out by HRT services based on the decision of the HRT Supervisory Board and that the Government has smoothly rejected the bill proposal without recognising discrimination against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is very, very strange to me and to a serious government inadmissible. I must say, on the basis of the previous consent of the Council for Electronic Media, the Croatian Supervisory Board has made a decision reducing the amount of the monthly fee to about 40 kuna, respectively. These are pensioners who have income below 1,500 kuna. According to our records, there are 218,000. So they have to report to a certain HRT address when they analyze their receipts and up until now some 16,000 pensioners have been released from November last year, and the potential is 218,000. You have not seen anywhere on the HRT title that pensioners with such incomes have the right to release part of the RTV subscription or reduction to 40 kuna, so they have not advertised, of course do not go to their own harm. That makes sense to me, but that means HRT isn't exactly sensitive to groups of citizens living in the poverty zone. What's discriminatory about it? It is discriminatory that the decision was taken on 12 October 2015, and those who became pensioners after 12 October 2015 do not exercise that right. Such decisions must not be made. Secondly, why is it only about pensioners? Do you think there are no other categories of citizens in Croatia who also live with incomes less than 1,500 kuna? According to our information, and we draw a source from the statistics of those who are exempt from paying additional health insurance, where it has total incomes of less than 1,516 kuna which is relatively close to this, somewhere near 500,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I took advantage of my right of representation and obligation to warn the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I do not want to talk about the bill now and what we have proposed because it will be in debate, to tolerate certain discriminatory behaviours in their institutions or that are owned by them on public television and that they should react first before they reject a quality bill. I ask you, Mr. President, that when and the Media Committee, informing you to put your opinion on this law on the agenda as soon as possible because all business conditions are satisfied that you can again for six months because that is how the Rules of Procedure orders when this is refused to propose the same law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24579	I'd like to thank Mr. Hrelja. The MOST representative's club called for a break. I would ask Agent Tomislav Panenic to explain the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24580	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Instead of congratulating all the Miroslavs, Mirams, and all those who share this name today, unfortunately we must say to one of them that their encounter with the dear God is likely to make life easier for them. I would therefore warn of the state of the Mitrovica family, the three people Stojan, Mira and Maru who lost their lives early Monday morning in a fire in their house. Maybe it's not news of whether it's still happening, but actually it's the case that happens to us in our carelessness, in the carefree system, just those who expect help from the system because when that system says here I'm going to say just a statement by the director of the welfare center, says she had no request for help, she wasn't familiar with their condition, the Red Cross was not familiar with it then we're talking for sure about the case that the system as such is not adequate, that it should be changed. Unfortunately, the last change that was made in 2014 actually reverseed that system, by reorganizing, and I would say almost close to abolishing the help program in the house. Many of the users who have needs have run out of help, have lost the people who are visiting them, have lost those who were out of institutional help, who were once just a word of comfort in the conversation they were having, with them where they didn't need any real financial help, but someone who visited them, who might have told their families that they were having problems, let some of their neighbors know that they were paying extra attention to them, we've lost all that. The Help Programme in the House since mid-2014 has been implemented in a modified form where a social care centre brings about the needs of such people. Our administration is, of course, acting under the law under which it was passed. So someone who has a pension, and it's often the case that in those old people where they're actually getting a pension, but someone else is using it to deny them that right. Someone may have a registered car in that name, but they don't use them but they use someone closer or further, so they are also denied the right to do so. And there are many reasons why many families are happening right now, especially in rural areas, and this is an example, not only of the rural area, because the town of Vinkovci is still a developed environment, having problems, and especially in these winter days we find them frozen and unfortunately also here in tragic situations. From this position, I also appeal that in the new Social Care Bill proposal, the return of the Institute of Programmes to help them in the wider form in which it was, to allow those who do not realize maybe the right to financial assistance to achieve the right to human assistance, to a word that will make their lives easier for them because people of 80, 90 years of age like these sisters, they and their brother certainly need help and always, here this morning I listened, the family should take care of them, and what if that family was in their problems, means their children, if they went abroad, have their own concerns, how they will lead and if they are far away, they have no contact, that's the indifference that affects them. And we need to ask ourselves where we're going this way, if our children are unhappy to see on television some content that they can't afford in every environment, if our youngsters are unhappy that they can't achieve jobs where they'd like or an adequate schooling, if family bearers are unhappy because they can't provide everything their family shows and then also these old, powerless ones can't help themselves we have to help them. Because if we don't, then surely something called populism won't be populism anymore, but it'll be our reality. It's people, it's not populists, it's people who are asking for help and there will be more and more people who recognize that need and who will fight for theirs, solve their problems, and I think it's okay, and that this House of Commons will point out these very problems and fight for their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24581	The solidarity party and the Reformist also asked for a break, their representative, Rezimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24582	Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Panenic, I sign your debate and the name of the club, but the town of Vinkovci, according to the last list of 33 thousand inhabitants, is not God knows how big a place. I wonder, and we had a debate at the proposal for a law on protection against violence, when I asked for special elderly people to be introduced into that law. Has the mayor of Vinkovci ever walked his city? Did he see that house in the condition we saw it on TV, that these people live like rats in the basement? Did the social work center even those people working in it take a walk in that city? I believe they saw it, but they don't care. We act like bureaucrats, if there's no application, no demands, no solution. And that's unfortunately the case with this Mitrovica family. Has the mayor of Vinkovaca ever spoken to the director of the Social Work Centre about the social status of the citizens of Vinkovac? So there are problems in the system, but there are also problems in our human approach. Did Minister Murganic go to Vinkovce? She's like the Social Minister in charge. Whether she was in the middle of a line of surveillance at the Social Work Centre, if there was any kind of application at all. I don't believe it, I just can't believe that citizens, neighbors who have been passing that house for years, let's call it houses, they haven't registered. And allow me, Mr. President of the Parliament. And to use this pay phone, to appeal to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, according to Article 1. The Constitution, we are a unique, indivisible and social state. I appeal to all citizens and citizens when you see such a situation that, that people are in trouble in poverty, that they don't even know how to help themselves, that at a age like that, when they don't even know where to turn, they collect cardboard boxes and boxes because they don't know. Pay attention and report it to the Centre for Social Work, report it to the competent institutions, act as neighbours, as friends, as citizens, of a single social Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24583	I'd like to thank Agent Varda. The SDP advocates' club also requested a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24584	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, first of all I have to say in the introduction of the SDP is very clear against mandatory military service. Why are we against mandatory military service? So first, let me say the idea that the president herself was in America, she came back and now brought with her the latest whim we're going to introduce a mandatory military service. A long time ago in 2008 during the government, Croatia has precisely defined HDZ as a strong, small-scale, well-armed army in line with NATO standards. And then the prime minister of Sanader, along with the government, made the decision, forwarded it to the parliament and the parliament voted, or the HDZ majority. Here we are nine years later changing our mind. Well, you can't play with the army, dear. In this way you are jeopardizing the foundations of the statehood of the Republic of Croatia. The military is a matter that develops in the long term according to strategies and according to military doctrine. We've adopted NATO military doctrine if I'm not mistaken. We didn't adopt Soviet military doctrine or give God not to JNA but to NATO. So I think it's a completely wrong idea. Besides, this is the way to go out with an unedited idea, to upset young people. How do you think it would be good to serve a military term in the season when we're short of a workforce in the season anyway? Who would serve that military term? What young people? Who would come here? In any case, by stimulating the voluntary military deadline that we have and now, we now have 1,000 young people in uniform who are not professional soldiers, who have chosen this path voluntarily and who want to continue their career in the Croatian Army I suppose a good part of them. So come on, let's let these people get on with their careers. After all, this budget, which has been greatly increased, is nothing more than a draft of the budget of former Minister Kotromanovic. Only now is he equated with what Minister Kotromanovic had in his budget, and Croatia is constantly to work on modernising the military, it is necessary to invest in arms and I agree with all of this. In addition, we need to design people their way into the military, military career, military pensions, a system of military pensions. I think this is the way to get back from travel and the idea to place it in the media, forward it to the public without a serious debate in the government, without a debate in this House of the High is, in any case, counterproductive. In addition, Minister Krsticevic, whom I respect and appreciate in his address in the press, said such an army should also help with threats. What kind of threats during the summer, for God's sake? So the military is helping with all the threats anyway. And we remember all the floods in Slavonia, we remember other threats of the military and the way it is, but she's well dressed, capable of going out on those threats. Are we going to send the boys, 18-year-old girls, to go to the fire in Dalmatia, maybe? Let's get serious! Let's think about it a little bit. Let's develop an army like we have. The Croatian army is strong, the Croatian army is a force, it was seen at the pass. Let's develop this type of army, the path we've chosen continue with it, but let's arm that army even stronger, equip it better, invest in its resources, invest in personnel at the end of the line in that army, but let's not play God with the army. In 2008, we cancel, in 2017 we introduce. It's irresponsible, it's unserious, it's populist. And besides, we don't even have the resources to do it anymore. 400 million kuna would cost us such a small minimalist military deadline. So, I think that idea needs to be given up urgently, and we're certainly up for stimulating people who want to...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24585	.../Intruder President: Time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24586	...who want to serve a voluntary military deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24587	Thank you. The Live Wall and SNAGA representatives' club also called for a break, their representative Branim Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24588	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In its session 26.1., the government adopted a document called the Public Debt Management Strategy for the next three years, and we see from this document that the Government plans a debt in 2017 of 65 billion kuna, in 2018 amounting to €53 billion and € 2019. This document in complete silence, in moments as the media spend days talking about an apple being brought by a government that allegedly intends to introduce the euro, a government that is unable to establish control over banks, especially the CNB, interest rates and illegal business. A government that is unable to bring order to justice or health in which imports continue to grow more than exports, the government in a country where unemployed young people, by the unemployment of young people at the very European bottom, has a government that already has a debt of 289 billion kuna, so in the next three years it is thinking of borrowing the country for an additional 172 billion kuna. It should be said that this is not about the new debt, that the entire amount is not a new debt, it is part of a new debt, but the fact is that the old debts are closing new ones, thus showing that this government is not able to reduce debt but that the country's debt will also grow in the coming period. It should be pointed out that projected GDP growth of 3.2% is not even enough to pay interest, let alone the principal. And we really have to ask ourselves, who is and in what way and under what conditions has created a 172 billion kuna debt? How could it be that 172 billion or these 289 billion that I mentioned earlier in previous governments, and at the same time we don't have, I don't know, 20 million kunas for cops' uniforms, for their severances, that we don't have for student transportation, we don't have for textbooks, we don't have for the salaries of teachers who have been waiting 11 years, we don't have for timely payment of student scholarships, that 15% of children in schools can't pay for school meals, that young people are mass emigrating with that kind of money, with so much money we have such terrible problems. What does this government know besides borrowing land? He knows how to implement the same policy that previous governments have implemented, from which it allegedly differs. What is the difference between the current government and the government of Zoran Milanovic in economic terms? What is the difference between the government of the current prime minister and, say, Tim Oreshkovic? There's no difference. We are going in the same direction, the direction that destroys and this little healthy economy that remains in Croatia is that which we are to be honest only leaves behind the desert. For this reason, I believe that the public should draw attention to this document, which I repeat once again was brought into silence, without any major reporting, and I have found myself a parliamentary representative on the government's side and that we are seriously concerned about what kind of policy the government will be leading us for the next four years and what we can expect afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24589	Thank you, counsel Bunjc. The HDZ advocates' club also reported for a break and on their behalf representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24590	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ cube, of course, is looking forward to announcing and considering the possibility of serving a basic military deadline for the duration that would be as short as possible and perfecting the use of the bar of basic pedestrian weapons of our youngsters who today are really and harder to do so through all the records that exist as long as they are reported and are not able to serve a voluntary military deadline. It is a fact which is undeniable and which both the defence minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, as well as the President of the Republic must have seen in the past time before they announced the possibilities and considered the possibility of perfecting basic military knowledge. So basic military knowledge over three to four weeks would certainly take nothing away from the Republic of Croatia but would only improve both economic operators and the economy and everything. As you could see 28 companies in the Republic of Croatia produce for the Croatian Army from footwear, clothing, weapons to food and everything else needed, so the economy is filled with the actual domestic market and the Croatian Army certainly needs to make as many products as possible, as well as food used on the domestic market. One can say that no one wants to militarize Croatian society, on the contrary. There will certainly be enough debate about this decision, about this decision, about justification will certainly be discussed in detail each segment, about the possibilities as well as the analysis of whether there really are some new threats in the environment that would require the completion of the reserve composition, as well as this fundamental knowledge of the Croatian Army, i.e. Our young men in the use of personal weapons as well as their motor skills, as well as the commands they must learn to obey, would certainly be the basis for preventing future threats. In the face of threats, there may be no one who can predict them, but there are experts who look at everything that can happen in the future. Croatia must never again be surprised by any kind of aggression and occupation. Although we have a modern, small, but strong Croatian army, I believe that we should also have a HDZ club, as well as our ministry, as well as the president of the state that there is a need for these young people who need to be trained at least in those basic military skills. I believe that only in this way can we have security from any external threats, any aggression, because only when we have in our composition and complete troops that will retain any first attacks, we can be safe, calm and we can say that the Croatian state is small, but secure in the environment of those who certainly never rest and who today express their claims on Croatian territory. I therefore believe that no one should be afraid of militarization and Croatian society, on the contrary, this was also in those unfortunate societies that actually have us, are behind us and that have damaged us in the present new Croatian time but has been a basic training through what the DSZ is. And I wouldn't have anything if even in our schools there were one object, one hour a week that would talk about basic training means of walking weapons like it used to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-01-0.u24591	I thank Representative Djakic. Start at 9.48. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. The Advocacy Club We will change Croatia and, on their behalf, Agent Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
