ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47357	Dear Mr. President, I demand a 10 minute break on behalf of the club Let's change Croatia to warn the public about the harmfulness of certain provisions of the Law on Croatian Forests, which prohibits the gush of chestnuts, mushrooms, asparagus, and thus dissipates the few regiments that live there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47358	The other is a colleague of Dobrović's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47359	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Lists Club. I would like to discuss the seriousness of the situation with regard to waste management in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47360	You got it. The third one came from a colleague, Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47361	Dear President, on behalf of the SDP club, we're looking for a break in the internal political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47362	I'm a fourth colleague of Majir's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47363	Mr. President, on behalf of the HSS Club, I'm looking for a break in waste disposal at the Regional Centre of Pishkornica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47364	Thank you. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47365	I thank Mr. President on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club for asking for a break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47366	Thank you. That's it, we keep working at 9.50 minutes. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The first one was to speak on behalf of the Advocacy Club Let's change Croatia, the esteemed Ivan Lovrinović. I don't see him unfortunately. He's gone. Come on, you almost lost your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47368	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked for a break to inform the citizens of a phenomenon that is truly unacceptable. Last weekend I was with members of my party Let's change Croatia in Croatia Costanica. Because we're going around, it's in the work programme to go all over Croatia, see how people live, not to say how people live. There was a manifestation there, chestnutade, it's a beautiful end of Bania, the pearl of the Una River, but while I was walking through town and talking to chestnut roasters, people are complaining about picking chestnuts, going to the woods, they have to pay 100 kuna tickets in a week, and to get a ticket they have to go to the woods to get confirmation that they paid, and if someone finds a forester or a logar to pick chestnuts or mushrooms without having permission, then according to the Law on Croatian Forests, he has to pay a fine of 2 thousand, 7 thousand kunas and more. I couldn't be calm when I was listening to what they were saying, otherwise that end was devastated in the war, he didn't recover, hard people lived, a lot of people moved out, and then he automatically gave me the idea that the provision in the Law on Croatian Forests, which is an article of the Law on Croatian Forests, which prohibits people from picking up chestnuts, mushrooms, asparagus in Istria and Dalmatia, so didn't someone just insert such articles that and the few people who stayed there to tear them apart? These people have nothing to live on, so they need to be paid 100 kunas to go to the woods to pick. Please which perfect let's say, measure that and the few people, the anti-population, and in any case harmful. This is why I invite you respected MPs and MPs, I suggested yesterday, I hope that we will do so together with the HSS, propose amendments and supplement to abolish this bad and harmful article of the Law on Croatian Forests, that our people who fought there are a lot of defenders, that they can't go in their forests, they can't read chestnuts and that one number of people live. Someone's gonna tell Lovrinovic, what you're talking about, you're a macroeconist, what you're talking about chestnuts, asparagus and mushrooms. Well, that's what people live on, gentlemen. We have to take care of that too, not just talk about general things that few people understand. So I ask you in the coming days, we will launch this initiative to change the law on Croatian forests to support me, to support us in this because it will benefit people living in areas that are already devastationed, where there is no work, where it is hard to earn a kuna to keep them in those areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47369	Thank you. The second debate is a respected representative, Slaven Dobrović, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47370	Thank you very much, dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I would address you and, of course, the Croatian public on the subject of waste management. In fact, here we were able to read in the media these days as the citizens of Rijeka faced a very unpleasant surprise. In fact, that's where the transport and waste management services increased by 108%. So more than a double amount. Which are reasons, therefore, the city's leaders say a new way of managing waste, should cover the costs of working at the Waste Management Centre that was built in the Marines. But what did these same leaders say? First, they did not say that this was actually the first pick-up because it would probably come another time because the current 470 kuna of operating costs, or entry fees, would not be enough to cover the costs of the centre’s work. What else didn't they say? Secondly, this expensively paid CGO Marinery does not actually allow the achievement of the objectives or obligations that Croatia has written in its Sustainable Waste Management Act. So these are eu targets, 50% recycling by 2020. This objective is mandatory, therefore, and there is a risk of payment of the penalty so in some period after 2020, but this goal is actually desirable to us. Why is it desirable? Well, here, for example. in the Marines, we have materials there, so 60 thousand tons is brought, there are at least 30 thousand tons of yearly paper and plastics, that material is valid on the market at least 10 million kuna and more, and in the Marines when it's mixed with everything, so in the form of garbage, it's going to cost 20 and more million kuna. So, what else is interesting here? So in Rijeka, the city's leaders, they can testify to you firsthand, had a chance to get acquainted with these things. In 2013, they received a study on the subject, therefore an ecologically-based waste management system for the city of Rijeka. So, in 2013, in March of the month. Of course, this system is focused on separate collection and recycling. If they had listened then they would probably have brought quite different news today, so to the citizens of Rijeka. News like those they have from nearby Krk, where the leaders, so the island listened to such recommendations several years earlier. So the island of Krk has already achieved the goals that Croatia has until 2020. What about the rest of Croatia? So when we repaint Croatia, so it's 20 times the amount or the question is whether we're going to spend half a billion new money on paper and plastics, so we're replacing it with 200, 300 million kunas of revenue. So it's a circular economy, it's green jobs. So, we now have a situation that our craftsmen plasticists import recycling from Austria and Germany, so they also install them into products in Croatia. This is why a new waste management plan from January was installed, so a separate collection system and everything that goes there is a vehicle loan, sortery, compost, recycling yard, reuse centres. What is it today? Looks like PGO's a dead letter on paper. So, in particular, they point to signals in northern Croatia where ideas are revitalised by huge waste management centres, so where is the range of transports over 100 km. Even now, energy is mentioned, the energy that will use this material to consume this valuable product. They say even a strategic project has been declared. This gives an even sadder picture of the situation in Croatia, where the strategicists in Croatia really do not know the matter put such projects on the list of strategic projects. And that's why I think it's about time, and I'm calling on a minister who's not being seen, and it's hard to hear him take steps with a plan of waste management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47371	Thank you, too. We're going to the third debate, the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague of the Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47372	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues, students at the gallery welcome to everyone's good morning, welcome to the Parliament. I would like to warn Croatian citizens and the Croatian public today on and SDP's Club of Representatives of the SDP on a fact that happened yesterday after finally, after four months of competing with HDZ, we managed to reach the Agrokor Investigation Commission. So in April when we filed a request in the 7th month HDZ still persistently resisted it and said they did not want an investigative commission and now they have agreed to this variant under the pressure of the SDP. But I warn the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that HDZ still does not want to answer questions about Agrokor. This is also seen in a statement yesterday by counterparts Brkic and colleagues Boric about when the commission should begin, expect arrests, and then we will consider whether or not we will discuss it. So the fact is now that HDZ is going to do everything possible to get to the answers we're looking for on the Committee, and we're looking for very simple answers, and you're going to understand why they don't want to. Why did Ramljak obviously bring his business partners Night Head to Agrokor to earn 400m euros? Which is why Plenkovic, Dalic, Ramljak and Maric would like to address the issue. That's why HDZ won't give it up. From where, for example, Brkić, Miljana Brkic, yesterday, information that he shared here amongst all how much HBOR has loaned money to over the years. I'm telling you colleagues and colleagues that here the intelligence community also seems to be involved in the whole story. How does Mr. Brkic know that? Here's to tell us Mr. Bacic in his patch reporting on behalf of the club in the end means after all that he as a commentator is commenting on everything. Let him tell us where Mr. Brkic got that information from. So he can't come from anywhere to get that information he's sharing in public, and I'm gonna tell you why he's doing it? Because he wants to cast the fog, cloud the water. They do not want to answer questions about what Maric, Ramljak, Dalic, Night Head did and who did and why he earned 400 million kuna and the risk was taken by Croatian citizens. We will insist on this and therefore SDP requests, the SDP's club is seeking and since this is a public call for Todorovic Ivica to respond on 30 October to the first session of the committee as a witness around this case, to clarify all this information. This is a public invitation to Mr. Ivica Todorovic to come to the first session of the commission on October 30th, to show everything I said about what he talked to Ramljak, to Dalik, to Plenkovic and to get full information. I hope that this will be supported by the HDZ Representatives' Club if they have nothing to hide or the gentlemen of the HNS, but I don't have much illusions here, given that a month ago they defended that they didn't need a commission, and now that HDZ said they should, they changed their minds. But all those who are in the interest of hearing the truth, I hope that they will support this proposal, given that the Parliament has decided to proceed with work on 30 October after a technical session of 15, 20 minutes when the Rules of Procedure will be adopted, asking for Ivica Todorovic to respond to the conversation and to give a statement with all that has been being debated in the public for months now and what he can answer. If the HDZ is in the interest of hearing the other side, the HDZ side should suggest that the day, the same day, be given by Ramnjak, Dalic and Maric. We won't mind. But SDP's request is for Ivica Todorovic to appear in the Croatian Parliament on 30.10th and on the commission to give his testimony as a witness regarding the Agrokor case, so that the Croatian public, finally after this strain of HDZ and Todorovic, which has lasted for months, would have heard the truth about what happened there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47373	4th debate, dear colleague Mladen Madjer, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47374	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected primarily Podravci and Prigorci. In a few minutes, I'd like to draw your attention to the years-long problem of the Piskornica dump. This is what Col. Dobrović said in his presentation about the waste sorting. He would like to connect to a waste dump in the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County of Piskornica. Everything was a very good story at first. A regional waste management centre, where it will be recycled, where raw materials will be sorted, used, for further purposes, as recycled raw materials for further use, and a small part could be processed, should remain on the disposal site. That's about 20% of what happened in the meantime, I don't know, so he doesn't know a lot of them, but I think those who started the Pishkornica project knew exactly what business trash they started implementing. They started bringing huge quantities of municipal waste, garbage from all over the river, and from Lasina and the Carlova County, Jastrebarski and who knows where. It is clear that no one has asked the people of Koprivnica Ivanac, where the dump is located, nor the citizens of the town of Koprivnica, nor the other locals around the municipality of Koprivnik Ivanec. I request that data be published in a timely and transparent manner in the context of the introduction of trash into Piškornica, in which quantities, and data on the measurement of harmful gases that they are performed regularly, and the profession should determine what is regular. Surely not ever, as was the case now, unfortunately. But it's not the end, because of the greed and grampity of individuals trying to push through the project at the generation plant for the production of money and electricity. With a very nice explanation of how everything will be according to the highest environmental standards. They may believe that what has already happened or that we live, for example, is not happening. in Sweden or in another country where ecology comes first. Mr. Mladen Jozinovic, current director of Piškornica and Piškornica of the sanacija dump, is looking for an increase in the capacity of the dump and imagine from 419000 tonnes to a new 1.1 million tonnes of garbage delivery. With many studies, research and examination of documentation, it is known that burning trash is the worst possible way to dispose of waste. We know that burning creates harmful gases, full of heavy metals, live, and oxides known to be the most carcinogenic substances and directly affect citizens' health. We want to know how many tons of garbage will come from, where that garbage will come from. But we want to know what that center will look like. If we are discussing this, 50, 60 million euros from the EU will be invested in the project, and I guess there must be some projection of what will be there and how it will work. At the same time, I ask the mayor, Korena, as well as Director Jozinovic, where they are given the right to choose, without question and without knowledge, to build a plant's waste plant by the children's food factory and besides the facilities for the production of medicines. Another absurd Piškornica, which each other dump, the municipality of Koprivnički Ivana, which is co-owner, in the amount of 10%, has the right to receive compensation, environmental compensation. Unfortunately, due to the inability to obtain certain documentation, how much garbage has been brought in, they do not have the right information and practically the budget of the units of local self-government Koprivnički Ivanec is damaged. We are looking for the shift of the current director of Pishkornica d.o.o. and Piškornica sanacional dump, Mr. Jozinović, who has permanently violated the trust of the municipality of Koprivnica Ivance, as well as all the surrounding places and slowed down the development of our region, and I hope that Mayor Koren, will stand in the protection of his residents, unless there is clear personal interests in the construction of that burning plant. And just so you know, we're going to use all the legitimate resources available to us and the pressure in this High House to stop the building of the burner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47375	Thank you. The latest debate following the meeting of the HDZ Representatives Club and the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47376	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would suggest that perhaps the secretariat of the assembly allow one in the next room another pay phone, so that all day a colleague, Maras, can laminate around Agrokor. And there, by argument of shouting, he's trying to replace the shouting of arguments that clearly don't belong to him. I would remind my colleague Maras if we had established a commission yesterday and that my colleague Maras is a member, just one of them nine. Well, your president, that is, your member who is the chairman of the commission, colleague Orsat Miljanic, and especially the president of your party, and you can't and won't determine when anyone will call, especially you won't be able to do it by shouting here in the Parliament, and I would ask you, I listened very carefully to you to keep your mouth shut while I speak, and then you can answer your word as much as you want. And I'm saying it would be better to have another pay phone in the next room and introduce yourself there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47377	Just a little buddy Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47378	.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47379	Comrade Bačić, just a minute. My colleague Maras, well, no, but you can't act like one, so don't apologize now because you're deliberately provoking. Your colleague Bacic listened very carefully, now let him say his part. You've also raised a plate to hurt the Rules of Procedure, so you'll have a chance to say what you think. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47380	So the moment the work commission starts, when the commission, and it hasn't started yet, when the work begins and the working rules are established, will be known and will determine who will be able to speak on behalf of that commission. It will be Mr. Maras, I have nothing against it, but it will determine the commission. And especially won't your party president on the day that this commission was established speak in the media who will and when he will be invited to the investigative committee to show himself about his role around Agrokor. What you're doing here is brutally politicizing the work of an investigative committee. You don't even care to find out the truth. I think that fellow Maras you do what you do fog to try to cloud your role in the work of Agrokor and through the work of the FGS of the Fund's economic cooperation and through your role in the control board of HBOR, so maybe you should be the first, why don't you be the first witness, I don't know it, but perhaps the commission will determine that you are the first witness and that in this way you are eliminated from the work of the commission, because this is how you perform in the Assembly, and obviously you do not care to investigate the circumstances but to perhaps cloud the role of you and your government for which time has become the largest, to raise the biggest loans and the biggest dubiosis in the concert. Therefore, if we have agreed on the work of the commission, then let the commission do so. Who really cared about when the commission would establish the best telling fact and the fact that you didn't speak on Friday, last Friday, five to twelve, and at twelve, it was up to the Parliament to start voting on the establishment and appointment of an investigative commission that you didn't know who you would be on behalf of the SDP member or president. At your club, you got into a fight over who's gonna be a member of the investigative committee, and you're transferring us to obstruct the selection of the investigative commission. So you can't do it that way. And be patient, slowly everything will be explored, we don't have any problems, absolutely no problems, and we've long been saying that we with the investigation committee have no problems, let all the circumstances of all governments, all the HDZ governments, all the ministers, any of those HDZs, any SDPs of any other ministers, but that in this way you'll obstruct the work of the commission most say that about yourself. Therefore, it might be best to also establish a potential conflict of interest if you continue to obstruct your work in this way and thereby question your role in the creation and circumstances of the event. In this sense, we at the HDZ Club support the work of the investigative committee, we support the investigation of all circumstances, but that the work of the investigative committee is not a matter of politics, which obviously started before the work started, but now the need for when and in what way will be imposed is already being imposed in advance, without respecting the fact that there are nine people who think for themselves and who should decide for themselves how and in what way. What you're doing, I'm only saying politics and obstructing the work of the commission. We therefore support the fact that as soon as possible, HDZ will not be obstructed, however, it will be actively involved, but the law on investigative committees and the part-time work of the committees defined by the decision itself will be respected, and it tells me how much you are one of the authors and the decision to set up an investigative commission, so you know well what you wrote and what you wrote in the club since the start of the investigation, and to this day, therefore, there should be respect and desire to establish all the circumstances, not to be politically but at the beginning to obstruct the work of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47381	Thank you. We have a violation of our colleague Gordan Maras's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47382	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Articles 229 and 231 were injured, so not 238, as usual, Mr. Bacic, you will not scare me. I don't answer to HDZ, I don't answer to Plenkovic, Bačić, I answer to Croatian citizens. You won't silence me with threats. Mr. President, this is the first time a pay phone has threatened a representative from another club by the HDZ, that someone will mark me with something. So do what you want, Mr. Bačić, I'm ready for all the dirt that's coming from HDZ, but I want to give the answers to the Croatian citizens. And you answer whether you're ready for Todorovic to testify on October 30th, that's all that matters is what I said throughout the debate, you didn't say that. I'm asking you, Mr. President, to hold a session, 229th, so Mr. Bacic can't shut me up. And 231st one more thing, this patch of replica means I ask that every time Mr. Bacic is not the last, it's not fair. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47383	A colleague of Maras, a colleague of Maras, was not injured by the Rules of Procedure. And what you called for has nothing to do with what happened in the assembly. ... And what are you answering? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I've been waiting for you all morning. I can't wait for you to pick up. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you not to. My colleague Bačić made his vision, you carried out your vision, and you were nothing more gentle than Bačić was in his sight. So please, when you make harsh statements, when you call someone else, be prepared that they will defend themselves and do the same, but then don't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. When you enter the debate, be prepared that the other side will defend their opinions in the same way that you do. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47384	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Namely, my colleague Maras did not call on the correct article of the Rules of Procedure, nor did I hurt the Rules of Procedure, nor did I hurt the Rules of Procedure, but he is bothered by Mr. President and the esteemed colleagues and colleagues when someone behind him has something to say and explain it. And that's the problem with Mr. Maras. And Mr. Maras can't determine when anyone's gonna take a break. We had no intention of calling for a break this morning until we heard that you from the SDP club would look back at the work of Agrokor after yesterday's Committee was established and already dictated in advance what the commission would do. That's why I called. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47385	We're re-using the abuse of the Rules of Procedure's Institute of Infringement. I'd pray we don't do that. And I hope that, among the party consultations on amending the Rules of Procedure and this topic will come to the agenda in order to make it much clearer to define the use of infringements of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47386	He has now come forward with the word of Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He'd be looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club for ten minutes, and the theme is the agony of the Castellan greenhouses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47388	Okay. Then I'll see you at 12.35. It's 12.25 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.35 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is about food production, it is about the strategic most important resources that should be developed in the Republic of Croatia, but the agony of so many recognizable Castelan greenhouses that have given numerous products that have been awarded at world level, many cultures that have produced from salads, tomatoes and other flower products, unfortunately two years ago went bankrupt. At a time when we import 90% of food of suspicious food products of suspicious quality as proven and results of inspections today in Kašteli i.e. in Kastelan Bay 58 thousand square meters from 58 acres of greenhouse space that has a complete infrastructure is closed, falling apart. Even one part of these greenhouses was rented by a private man, paying large rent now by companies in bankruptcy two years ago means the Castelan greenhouses and surviving, 700 thousand kuna. In this bankruptcy process there is a solution, before the local elections, Minister of State Property Mr. Maric, who then offered a solution to sell a part of the castle's airport of land and to compensate workers of the total debt of 92 million kuna, the workers could be paid almost with small State compensation, could be compensated for the entire bankruptcy. to pay mainly to workers looking for 21.8 million kuna claims on behalf of workers and workers are now jobless, and we have a great production brand and very easy to solve. The union, already half a year ago, has passed since Minister Maric, who was in Kaštel, has no longer called on unions seeking resolution with the airport, i.e. with the Ministry of Transport to solve the problem that has been promised, but to this day there is no movement, unless someone has taken that view to invest in some hotels, motels, and we know that 56 hectares or 58 hectares of glass space where the most quality products are now the food lying and yawning products. The solution is simple, the solution is offered by the minister himself and let it go into realisation, but it no longer occurs to workers or unions or others interested in that area. They even take off some greenhouses and rent a car service to rent parking spaces. And he expects the bankruptcy manager Vedran Šeparovic to go into this rescue project himself in the form of a deblocking exit from the bankruptcy of this company if the solution has by selling land 16 hectares along with the airport itself that is needed by the property of the Kaštelan greenhouse. When we talk about agriculture, Podravka imports 80% of its products for its production of agricultural products, and our greenhouses, our fields without irrigation in this case when we talk about Castelan greenhouses for our Croatian market should still be built and who knows how many quantities to produce. And we're importing. To whom the interest is, here I ask Mr. Maric first when he will resolve it, I ask the Ministry of Agriculture to engage, if they could pay a number of subsidies to Todorovic and the others I see no reason not to initiate this production, that our interested people will be employed, is that it is worth it. The market exists in Croatia and exports have branded products and that this solution that I have mentioned and which workers ask to finally implement is what is most important in Croatia by water, air, clean environment is food production, and the Kaštelan greenhouses have conditions and have a solution if they have good will, if someone has not thrown their paws on this beautiful land along the coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u47391	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52777	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're moving on with the session. The first item of the agenda is the Final Proposal for a Law on regulation of the rail market and protection of passenger rights in rail transport, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 153. But I saw a few hands in the air. Now we move on to the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on Regulation of the Railway Market and protection of passenger rights in rail transport, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 153. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. ... Well, I'd like to say it, so we'll do it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Law. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Then I would like to ask the distinguished Nikolina Brnjak, State Secretary at the Ministry, the sea, transport and infrastructure to give an added explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52779	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives. This is the final proposal, i.e. the Final Law on the regulation of the rail market and the protection of passenger rights in rail transport. The Law on the regulation of the rail market and the protection of passenger rights in rail transport shall be governed in accordance with the legal property of the EU, the area of regulation of the rail market, the area of protection of the rights of passengers in rail transport, the competence and authority of the national regulatory authority and the inspection itself. The railway market is regulated by the Law on Railways. Railway services include service use of railway infrastructure, service use of access to service facilities, whether it is a passenger station, seaports, ports on inland waterways, then additional services, power supply and, for example, tracking services, ticket sales services on trackways. The EU acquis is regulated by the market for rail services Directive 20-12/34 of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2002. However, in late December 2016, Directive 23-70 entered into force as part of the 4th railway package. As we know, the 4th railway package is divided into two bodies, a technical part related to the interoperability of the Single European Railway Market and the first part related to market access. The technical part was fully accepted by the European Parliament while the first part of market-related access was the objections and was rejected. That is why there is an amendment to the directive and to the new Regulation 23-38, which therefore changes the guidelines of the Single European Railway Market. As regards the opening of the market itself, the new Directive 23-70 of 1 January 2019 provides for the full opening of the rail market, the rail transport of passengers. The provisions of Directive 20-12/34 concerning the tasks of the national regulatory authority have been substantially amended. This means that this Directive clearly defines the tasks of the manager of the railway infrastructure, that its tasks are access to the routes, quantification of access and regulation of transport. Among other things, the organisational structure allowed by Member States is clearly defined so that each individual request can choose which structure will be accessed. It also means the possibility of providing services in passenger and freight transport. The proposal for a law lays down that the national regulatory authority is competent to carry out regulatory and other operations in the field of rail services markets, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, where the establishment and establishment of a regulatory body is governed by the law governing electronic communications and the Statute and general acts. The draft law relating to the regulatory body contains provisions on the principles of work, on the duties of members of the Council, decision-making in business, on decision-making and enforcement, on judicial protection, on means of carrying out operations and on making a work report. The proposal for a law on regulation of the rail market also contains provisions on regulatory principles and objectives, on the jurisdiction of the regulatory part and on the procedure of the complaint in the collection of data and on the verification of accounting separation. As part of the common transport policy, it is necessary to protect passenger rights in rail transport and improve the quality and efficiency of passenger services in rail transport. The rights of the rail service user shall include timely receipt of service information both before and during the journey. In order for rail services to serve everyone, it is necessary to take care of both persons with special needs and persons with reduced mobility. The draft law establishes a legal framework for the implementation of Regulation 13-71 with a particular emphasis on determining the infringement. The draft law lays down that the regulatory authority is competent to protect the rights of passengers in rail transport and the competent authorities for the implementation of Regulation 13-71 and the proposal for a law relating to the protection of the rights of passengers on rail transport contains provisions on the jurisdiction of the regulatory authority, on the procedure of official duty, on complaints of passengers and on complaints of passengers to the regulatory authority. The proposal for a law is also related to the inspection of the regulatory authority over the implementation of the law in question and to other regulations governing the rights of passengers determining the conduct of inspection tasks, the authority of the inspector and the obligations of the supervised and other persons participating in inspection. The transitional and final provisions of the draft law or law shall set a time limit for the adoption of the envisaged Regulation, a time limit for the start-up and termination of application of certain provisions in accordance with the legal acquis of the EU. The amendment of the Legislative Committee in relation to new technical amendments to the text is also adopted. It means what is most important in this law, that the legal property of the EU applies, by amending Directive 23/70 or by applying a new regulation which enters into force at the end of the year 23/38. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52780	I thank the secretary of state. We have one replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52781	Thank you very much. Dear secretary, we're talking about Croatian railways. You have talked about the application of EU directives, EU legislation, but the fact since we, I have said this in my first reading since we were in this, I have been saying since we entered the EU, that our railways are in worse and worse shape, and that our travellers are using Croatian railways. So from Osijek to Split, from Zagreb to Split, every day takes longer and longer to reach, it would sooner come with a bike. Infrastructure is a catastrophic situation, we repeat. And the only thing Croatia is doing is attributable to EU directives and trying to apply laws, but only by copying those laws, in reality it does not invest in infrastructure. Only if you don't have any other information but the real situation on the ground is that since joining the EU, there have been speeches when it enters the EU that the conditions will improve, that we will enter European associations, into strategic routes. But the fact is that it is not, is this targeted destruction of the Croatian railway or has someone thrown their paws at that space of ours and someone on the side is taking over, i.e. foreigners to take over Croatian railways where they obviously have their own interest. So I would ask you a brief answer, which is why it does not invest in Croatian railways and whose interest is it not to invest and who threw his paw at the Croatian railways? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52782	Would you like to respond to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52783	So we now have about 2.1 billion euros in investment in rail infrastructure, and we have about 13 projects that are being invested. So we have, that's now that's the current situation. So when you look at the CEF, we have so far had the opportunity to get 545 million out of the eu funds, we have 95.6% of the funds now pulled out of the CEF, it is just a matter of concreteising the entire Mediterranean direction that is our priority, we have returned the priority direction of Rijeka-Zagreb, Zagreb-Hungarian, or the border, in these directions are the largest projects. There are now discussions in lobbying the expansion of the Mediterranean route to the line of view, only because we believe that the railway is of strategic interest, with the ports of Split, Sibenik and Zadar, which must connect with Zagreb and thus enter the Mediterranean corridor or core network. So Croatia must be first positioned well on the traffic routes as part of the core network of the TNT network so that you can extract enough funds, i.e. to co-finance. And I think this answer that I've told you of 2.1 billion euros and 13 projects just in the Mediterranean direction is a good enough indicator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52784	I thank the secretary of state. Now I'd like to call the committee's reporters. Does he want to take a word for it? If not, then I open the debate, the first person to answer the word is the honourable representative Tomislav Žagar, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52785	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Brnjak with co-workers, it is interesting that three women defend here the Law on the regulation of the rail market and the protection of passenger rights in rail transport and I believe you will do well. So, this law itself is not problematic is continuing what was started back there I think, in 2003, back in Racan's government when it began to liberalise the railway market and that's one way that the Republic of Croatia started. On that road we stumbled, on that path we accepted, accepting what was offered through the directives, through four of these packages that would naturally help us in good faith. There were examples of where it worked, there were examples where it wasn't actually well done. We, however, cannot escape the process. Liberalization in itself is not a problem; it is not a problem; first of all, if we understand in the direction it was meant to be, it should help to develop the market, that we have a better service for as little money as possible, and I think that in freight transport since 2007, the new operators have appeared, and according to the data we see, therefore, we have a larger number of transported goods, so there is a shift. However, some of the experiences of countries, such as Slovenia, which in these negotiations exclusively based on protecting the amount of goods being transported. Then they missed the fact that it's not all about the amount of goods, sometimes it's about finance, so from Koper port to Hungary, transport can be extremely profitable, and that's the part where they didn't account for it. We are, to go back just a little bit, not too much about the past because we have already talked about the railroad whether it's the International Monetary Fund or whether it's the World Bank. They always pressured us to make certain decisions either on reducing the number of workers, whether about separating companies and separating everything that is not fundamental, to say the basic job in the Croatian Railways. These are 16 related companies. There were many in this Croatian Assembly, and it was rightly I think that there were also objections to the separation of, say, spring structures from that area, and it was later found that those who were for separation were later found that it was good that sometimes there was a master who would do this or that, because it was too expensive to look again through the outsourcing or in some other way through the isolated companies that service. So, under the pressure of the International Monetary Fund of the Republic of Croatia, it was a strategic definition of all political options in the Republic of Croatia, the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia agreed to sign those pre-accession contracts, all that was required of it. Of course, because of the economic situation we were in, as well as the World Bank, of course, like any other bank that gives capital because capital other than the financial message has a political message. So he's looking for a certain deviation. We went on time and on the separation of Croatian railways to, at the time of five related companies HZ Holding as roof, HZ Cargo, HZ Passenger transport, tow trains and something was my infrastructure. So five. In the first six months, actually, there wasn't a lot of work actually being done by HZ Holding. The mutual claims of these companies were so twisted that when they went to the ministry, the ministry said you have to handle it on your own. And then it actually happened, because of the overcosts that, as far as I remember, the HZ Trains Wolf actually came up with a solution that HZ Trains tow in passenger and freight transport. And that was about the transformations that we've been doing around these companies. There were a large number of workers, because the railway had a special status not only with us in Croatia's Republic, but in all countries. So in Austria, for example, he was an example, even having special laws, special to his Peace Fund. So that was one to say state in small. And those processes didn't go painless. There have been strong unions in the railways there since the 1990s that worked. One of the particularly strong unions is the Union of Engineers. And it's a good thing the unions existed. Even they, they noticed that when unions, when they become professional, they are less effective than when they are semi-professional, and actually people who work are also activists in the union. But if we didn't go too far in the past, what I should certainly take care of now is the liberalisation of passenger transport and in 2019, I mean the end of 2019 when it will take place. What's really worrying us all, and yesterday when we looked at funding units of local self-government are those areas where there's a small number of residents. Well, the largest city in the Republic of Croatia has 700 thousand inhabitants and we cannot compare to liberalisation in Germany. And people are rightly afraid, afraid that if the German railways come, and the German railways have from bicycle to train, they all have covered bus transport. So they're, it's a very organized group that's going to swallow the market very easily in the Republic of Croatia. It is almost hard to believe that passenger transport, HZ passenger transport will take over part of the market in Germany. We'd love to, but that's gonna be pretty hard. And that's that justifiable fear that, so let's say the German railroad will come and take over. And you know what else is more dangerous? If only they would take over most of these directions, but the situation will come that those individual paths will take over which ones are profitable and the logic of capital is that – I go where my profits are. I'm not driving there where there's no profit because someone has to subsidize it then, at least to that. I think it's, uh, here I have an ex-minister here, and he's raised a line, so he can help me out in the replica. I think it's allowed somewhere 15% of the profits are allowed with subsidies if that's true, I don't know. But there are ways that are not profitable and that someone has to co-finance. It is hard to believe that these units of local self-government, such as in some countries, will be able to achieve and subsidise rail passenger transport. So there's this danger that even those railways that were already there in 2010, the eleventh time that certain passenger lines were lifted there towards Gulovac and from Najsic towards Pleternica, that, in fact, it might happen that more of these tracks would simply not be possible, it wouldn't be profitablely interesting and the state actually went into the whole story to get rid of these vast subsidies. The state is primarily interested in protecting its budget. So what people who are busy in rail passenger transport today are actually warning about is the fear of liberalisation that will take place at the end of 2019. There's going to be a chance through the replica that I don't say, we repeat everything we've already talked about the railroad. I'd just like a few more technical things right now. The secretary of state mentioned this and the fourth package of railway measures. It means this technical part of security, interoperability. There is no, but in this market area there is now a legitimate concern now by the sole operator and this is HH passenger transport around these certain regulations or the transposed provisions of the Directive. So let's say both in the directive and the law mentions the station manager. We don't have that. So we have an infrastructure manager, and here it's defined. Then for each commendation is the protection of passengers especially those with disabilities. However, it is warned here through the directive that they should be introduced, given all the information. But what if that person buys his own ticket on the machine? Or what in general when a passenger buys online tickets. He becomes a passenger by buying a ticket. Could the carrier be responsible for him from the moment he bought the ticket? These are some of the questions that carriers ask, because this directive itself is rigorous in that part and it is good that it is rigorous, because passengers need to be protected. However, these problems that may arise in practice should be considered. I hope most of the stuff, most of these topics I've opened up, so here's a chance to respond through the replicas. After the consultation, the Mosta Club will decide whether to support this bill. There is nothing in it disputed, except I say this situation around 2019 when liberalisation takes place and whether the resolution ministry and state will do everything other countries have done. Like Germany, which did not even go to the division of its company, but they remained from the joint venture and were so afraid that no one in the West could buy a profitable share. Will there be such measures to protect in this case the domestic carrier, and then to protect jobs from people who work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52786	Thank you. Five is a replica. The first is a distinguished colleague of Hajdash Doncic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52787	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. You reminded your colleague... liberalisation of passenger traffic in this section. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I personally don't have one, I don't see any danger, because less than 7% of the lines in Croatia, actually, when we look at only economically profitable and without soo, therefore, one air transport contract, and the same exists in rail traffic where the costs of our operator are co-financed, so HHPP. Very difficult for any operator from outside to come to Croatia and competed with any line. It's the same for you in maritime traffic. I don't think anyone in Jadrolinia will ever compete with outside operators. But I wouldn't argue at all in the past, because infrastructure is given more or less. So, it's being set aside by our entry into the EU, where we are, I'm going to say by my inconsistency we're late. So the cards have long been divided as far as the corridor and co-financing options are concerned. And I don't believe it, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, I'm even here to exempt from anything, because it's the Minister of Finance who decides exactly how much money you can give for the infrastructure that's national. But what I'm interested in about this law and I know it can't happen today or tomorrow is actually raising standards of passenger services. And in a way that exists. Now I will not deliberately count the countries, because we cannot compare with it, but in most European countries you are absolutely normal that if the train is late, even if you are on a train, so if you are a passenger, a steward or conductor comes to you by Croatian and who simply will, I will tell you already converted, an envelope, therefore, with a brand that exists, and where it is only your obligation to forward it and where the railway operator returns 20% of the map, 50% of the map, depends on that part. So it's a question of the future, how to raise the level of service. And the infrastructure has to worry, actually HZ infrastructure, i.e. The Ministry of Finance is telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52788	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52789	Thank you, colleague Doncic, for the replica. Of course this is a complex question, I don't know how much chance there is of being in our county, so we have a regional structure,... region, I think Tyrol or who's already working. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are such models that local self-government is involved in the financing of transport. So they're even getting trains and then they're creating timetables and then they're looking for those who are going to be doing that service. Let's say that's a good model. With us, of course, it's still science fiction, but it's something that in the future might be if God gives life. Especially in this section where you said raising rail transport services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52790	Let's go to line two, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52791	Thank you very much. You told your colleague that we accepted these terms by joining the EU and that most of them are in the assembly, i.e. unanimously in Parliament was for that in Parliament. The fact that it has entered the EU, that the people were not the majority to join the EU, in this way. Because the fact that railways and services except for more companies, companies created them, the more directors we have and the higher personnel costs, the worse the railways. Even Western movies can't be made. 'Cause they look worse than they did in the wild west. There are no favors to these people for what they pay for. The lines are slower and slower, and we have entered the EU. With intent and then there was talk when we came in from these speakers, when we walked in that the railroads would be much better, traffic much better, communication much better, it's not the other way around. And even from Istria, the Istrians know it, you can't come to Croatia, you can't cross the border with Slovenia. So there's absolutely nothing we've done about it, and now the former minister has now mentioned, no one is responsible. It's the same case as when he was, it's all Ivo Sanader's fault. And everyone was confident. Or it's all Todoric's fault and no one's done it since... Yesterday you mentioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So are the Croatian railways. Let's forget who's responsible and worse, and we promised by joining the EU, who knows what they signed. They know foreign ministers, they could address it at the time, when Sanader was raced, those who were in parliament, but not they were too cultured to, in plain language, tell the people, they were better, on the faces of their party explaining the situations within the Parliament. Of course, the foreign minister from that time said everything was nice, but unfortunately, everything was ugly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52792	Thank you. Comrade Sagar, answer to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52793	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bully, I would very much disagree with you if everything had gone down the hill by entering the EU. But you're right, a lot of things have been handled badly, but it's not even the EU's problem. We, when we were dividing companies, agreeing with you, the management of these companies, was about HZ Harg, HZ passenger transport. And let's say that's an example from the union. You've barely listened to the people in that system for many years. The management was working the way they thought it was good. And often it didn't end well. About this very pre-accession negotiations, I don't know if you've ever taken a loan, I've borrowed a residential loan, and then when you come in here to raise a loan, you sign it. So can this one, just let her handle it so we can build it. The International Monetary Fund came, the World Bank came, they said you must fire 800 people. And now it's not a problem that 800 people have been fired, but the problem is what the goal is. Maybe it went into what you're saying to invest, maybe you'd keep those 800 jobs. But it's easier for management to say, we're going to fire 800 places than we're going to create conditions that they can do business and that they can make money for these jobs. It is ours, it is a Croatian problem, it is not even the EU anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52794	Okay. We're going to the third line now, dear colleague Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52795	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. I've been thinking about talking or not talking about the railroad because I'm a railroadman, and I've known that system very well since '88. I've been on the railroad for years, I've finished high school, I've been in the train and I know a lot about the system, and I'm going to apply for a debate, I'm going to talk about the name of the club, and I'm going to talk about what's wrong on the railroad, and that's why the railroad is in this state where it is. According to the railroad, the state is actually acting as a stepmother as it treats the roads as a good mother. Why is that? First of all, it's because probably no one was able to find an interest in making some good money through the railway business, and I have to say that the railroad is a reflection of the state. What a railroad. That's the state. Let's look at the railways in developed Western European countries and see that every country that has a quality rail service is also high quality there. So until the railways are brought to the level of the railways in one France, Germany, Switzerland, Austria and we can say even Slovenia and they've past us, they've long been past us, until the railway is at that level, our country will not be a country worthy of its people. And so I'm going to apply for a hearing and talk about some things that I didn't intend to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52796	Thank you. A reply to the replica of my colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52797	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Alexic, I am glad you will speak and it is good to speak to the people who were in this system. I've never been in that system, but many of my friends have. In Slavonia, the railway developed there at the end of the 19th century by the appearance of steam sawmills then began the development of the railway, in the '90s there was a new reconstruction, however, not the development of railways but the stagnation and collapse. Once, my colleague Babic, I remember in the debate, said he wasn't just before the '90s there, I don't know that the last time any track was made. For all the praise of what is done in St. Ivan Frog-Gradac, that's a good example. And what I wanted to see in your replica, the most important, and the behavior of motherhood, we went under the pressure of both the EU and the Commission to isolate these dishes, that was enough pressure, the separation of all businesses that are not a fundamental activity. And there were companies that were profitable, and why would something that he profitablely singled out and removed from what was good for you. Let's say some of the things we've done and it doesn't make sense just to fill in certain directions. And what's most important in your replica, so we have smart people, I'm convinced these representatives of the ministry listen to these people who are on the railroad who know what real problems are, and we've just been told that the administrations didn't listen, corporate administrations. And what the ministry's representatives need towards these administrations is to say harder and always ask for results from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52798	Thank you. We're going to the fourth line, dear colleague Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52799	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my colleague, Žagar, you've had a really extensive discussion, you've expanded from the topic, and I expected that's how the debate will be held, because all the railways hurt, the way our railroad works and looks, and that's what my colleague Alexic said to you in the replica. I'll just look back at the part where you might have been a little scared about our passenger transport distributor, but here I'm telling you that certainly HZ Passenger transport should not be afraid of competition with subsidies I think 700 million kuna a year which gives it state and almost here is what former Minister Hajdas Doncic said that 7% of the lines are profitable. The problems are in really other places, you have set an example that you might be able to give local self-government to participate financially, but you need to know that until we change, even believe the Constitution, but important and the laws and revenues of local self-government that is as you yourself said science fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52800	A reply to the replica of my colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52801	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Babic, as far as these fears are concerned, people warn. What's interesting? The suburban transport of the city of Zagreb is interesting, it is interesting. I don't know maybe there's a wider concern if he comes, and the mention is that you can see that, the German railways have everything, offer and bikes, have buses, have everything, can take over a good part of the passenger carriage because they'll be competitive and then there'll be a problem. Some countries, I don't know if it's the Czech Republic offering even a taxi ride in that combination. In our country and incentivizes and we have passed the Intermodal Passenger Transport Act, I have mispronounced myself... but the question is how much it can liven up together. And I fully agree with you in all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52802	Thank you. Let's go to the last line, dear colleague Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52803	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry. Dear Representative Sagar. You mentioned cheap transport by rail to Hungary, I believe you mean the historical meaning when from Rijeka, based on 5B of the Pan-European Corridor, the railway was built and transported by passengers and of course goods from Rijeka to Budapest to Hungary to Central Europe. But tell me what you think of this transport today because the transport of goods and the person from Rijeka to Hungary is the shortest one on that road. There are other ports and it's Trieste and Koper, there's Piraeus where there's a much longer transport of goods. The river is the shortest, cheapest. And the situation at the river port is clear and familiar, no, we know where it's going. Tell me, should we build a railway or stop the project in favour of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52804	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52805	Thank you. Dear colleague Kirin, this is the real question. You ask me personally, of course, to build a low-level railroad. It should be built especially because I mentioned transportation from Koper port to Hungary. The port of Rijeka has far better even there, you mention, it is one much shorter direction and the port of Rijeka there, in fact this route, that railroad can certainly be competitive. And that Republic of Croatia can make a lot of money. So, it should continue, but it's all about project preparation again, in funding. This project will always pay itself off and far away. And they'll open up jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52806	We are done with the replicas, so we now move on to the second club of representatives, that is HDZ and respected representative Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52807	Thank you, well-respected President, distinguished representatives of the motionary from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As the Proposer said in the opening statement, this proposal regulates the area of regulation of the rail market and the area of protection of passenger rights in rail transport, the competence and authority of the national regulatory authority, including the inspection tasks of the implementation of this law. We know that rail freight transport is fully liberalised in the Republic of Croatia while passenger transport is liberalised in the very segment of international transport and this law carries out further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU. Especially with the regulations of the fourth railway package relating to the full opening of the market for domestic rail transport services that enter into force in 2019, and there was also a colleague, Žagar, and here there was controversy, how this will affect our operator, which are advantages and disadvantages given the condition of the operator, I think that liberalisation takes place in two segments. One is, in 2019, all operators have the right to access our market, and the other is liberalisation regarding the award of public service contracts. Namely, all countries want to protect their railways, especially in this area where they subsidize these transports so that these contracts, the deadline, means by the end of April of the deadline or no more than 10 years from 2017, when this came into effect, means that we have one period of protection where we can provide our operator with, to say, a somewhat more equal fight with these better equipped operators. But here, he's getting annual contracts by now, and I hope the ministry will meet and assign that contract to our operator by the end of that term. In the EU and many other countries of the world, railways are becoming increasingly concrete to other transport branches and are operating positively. Unfortunately, we know what is the situation with us, unlike them, our companies HZ infrastructure, HZ Cargo, HZ passenger transport and their daughters' companies are mostly doing business with loss, constantly reducing the number of passengers, reducing the amount of cargo carried and rail infrastructure, whether it is the mobile or the immobilised, old and increasingly usable. This bad situation in Croatian railways is unsustainable and it is high time to make up for years of not investing in railway infrastructure and stop really ignoring railways. The railway should be and is a generator for the growth and development of the Croatian economy and in order for this development to indeed happen, a long-term strategy and continuity in its implementation, better coordination among railway-related stakeholders, responsible management of the railway system and, of course, one consensus of the entire profession and all parliamentary parties in the Republic of Croatia. Since the EU has provided large funds for the modernisation of railways, harmonising our legislation with European legislation will not further burden the budget and the economy. What's more, it can contribute to his work, and it's not a problem with money, it has money. So European funds have provided 10 billion euros for Croatian railways and each kuna invested in the railway is bringing additional revenues to the economy and citizens, and can affect GDP growth, employment growth and some estimates say that this is how one big investment in Croatian railways could achieve around 20,000 new jobs. It is only a question of whether we have enough prepared projects to withdraw and implement these funds from European funds, whether we can make up for those funds for the lost years of not investing in the railway and bring it closer to EU rail standards. It is also important to note that due to insufficient investment in railways, a good part of the domestic rail industry is in a difficult state. So there are bankruptcys, outdated technology and a number of other factors that burden the entire Croatian economy as well as this specialized industry. Fortunately, there are also positive examples of optimism. Some companies have turned to foreign markets, survived, and even here they work by everything to say, world standards. I am pleased to hear the example I read a week ago in our press and it is about getting a car stop device. Remember that in the 7th month, we adopted the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System where we extended the time limit for the installation of these devices for a year, the deadline was 31 July of the following year, and here, this whole business for our two companies, means a passenger transport amounting to 12 million kuna and HZ infrastructures of 24 million kuna, he agreed and will do a domestic consortium. So in July they passed this law here now we already have the knowledge that it will be built by domestic companies. I think this is one example of how implementation of European standards can bring opportunities to our economy. Of course, it is up to us, that is, to them to take advantage of these opportunities. I have to say that this news, I don't think it's adequately represented in the media space, here's a piece of paper on that news. But this is only one step in a series and I reiterate that a number of other measures are needed to achieve the iron effect, which is a competitive and quality rail transport service. I therefore expect that the adoption of this law will also result in new measures that will bring citizens back to trains while protecting their rights, the rights of passengers in rail transport, generally apply to all travel by train and rail services to the EU. Railway passenger services should benefit all citizens. Therefore, railway companies and station managers must make sure that stations, coaches and other devices are accessible to persons with disabilities and other persons with limited mobility. We believe that the procedure for providing rail transport services needs to be simplified, to raise the quality of rail transport services and to move away from the unsustainable market business in this sector. Finally, the adoption of this law is necessary because it regulates the market for rail services, passenger rights and inspection supervision. And therefore, the HZD Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52808	Thank you. We have nine replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52809	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate, you yourself said that so far there has been too little investment in the preservation of our operator and that the dissatisfaction of all citizens is that they are rightly dissatisfied with the state of rail infrastructure and the state of the operator. We see that, through the restructuring of this company so far, no jobs have been preserved, nor are the conditions for Croatian railways to be more competitive. And of course we agree with the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European directives. But neither will the law bring the competitiveness of the Croatian Railways nor will it allow our operator to protect from the ino competition, nor are we able at this time to protect all passenger rights in passenger rail transport. And we see that, the fact that more and more passengers travel by bus and other transports is especially with us in Slavonia and Baranja. It is a shame that the first of Okucan, Nova Gradiška, Broda, Vinkovac, Vukovar has not been restored or invested for years. And the town of Požega, Pleternica, Velika, and Našice deserve a better railroad connection. And the secretary of state said that somewhere around 13 projects are ready for Dalmatia and Lika, and what about Slavonia, when these projects will go and when the train station in Slavonski Brod can respond to all these conditions. Because the fact is that he lost importance and that this last investment in Slavonski Brod Station should be further spread towards Oriovac, Nova Kapela, Nova Gradiška stations, because until this is resolved, passengers do not have the same quality as they have in Zagreb or some major centres. So please answer me this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52810	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52811	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. In my presentation, I said, that you should simply stop this systematic neglect of rail traffic that began years ago, even before, I'm sure before the '90s. because the priorities have been given to some other sectors of transport. If we look at the '99 strategy, in 2010, you will see that only 7% of the planned funds are invested in the railways while 80% of the road is invested. I'm sure it's justified to invest in the road. We see what this brings to our tourism and other branches of the economy. But it certainly should not have been ignored by the railways in this percentage. Of course, it reaches here and war events, where we have lost transport, international transport. We know that the railroad covers a lot of its costs and work on this very freight transport, and of course by a passenger which has not been carried out. So, it was a difficult situation. Now this government has predicted of course 13 projects that it will solve. Among the others is part of Vinkovci-Vukovar, where she would connect with the main transport corridor, which goes east west, the port of Vukovar. And there's priorities. Slavonski Brod is located on one of the main corridors, the European corridor, meaning of these 9 corridors, 2 are in Croatia, this east-west and this north of the river that goes. So he definitely needs a boat, he has to get what priority he deserves, of course modernization and everything else is with HZ infrastructure operators. And these money that is scheduled will certainly come to this direction Zagreb-Lipovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52812	Thank you. Second replica, dear fellow Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52813	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Cosic, you just mentioned Vinkovci-Vukovar, a railway that needs to be done, which I think is all a failure to make. Miss for a miss. Vinkovci-Vukovar, 18 km, let's electrify. We've been going to Kutina for hours and a half, I wonder who's making the projects, especially this railroad from Zagreb, to Vinkovac to the east. In these 25 years, they've done absolutely nothing that should be done. From here to Kutina, I ride the railroad for an hour and a half. This looks more like a railroad to me than a railroad. I'm traveling the railroad, I'm going. We leave 3.5, 4 hours from Vinkovci, while we go two hours before the war. And this investment, some kind of a failure, by the way, and I can't understand it. Projects, who made these projects? Why wasn't it headed east to the railroad, here it is working towards there. Here's the other day, I was listening to Mr. Chacic say, "I'll have the effect of getting to Varazdin in 40 minutes." I fully agree, I congratulate him for fighting for himself. So what did we do in Celebrity? Let's go four hours, and he'll be there in 40 minutes. There used to be 300 trains, 300 trains a day. The biggest train node was in the former Yugoslavia, so this is a shame to see what it all looks like. We don't want to talk about the station, it's made with nice things, but the station doesn't drive, the railways drive. We do things backwards, we do things when we don't want to do things. Slavonia is abandoned instead of us coming here in two hours should be here from Varazdin in 40 minutes, excellent. I just can't understand this one that led this country for 25 years I'm hoping in this law and I hope this government will work precisely to improve the railroad towards Slavonia and towards the east. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52814	Thank you. Reply to the replica of co-worker Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52815	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic, we all know the state of our railway infrastructure, and you said it well as a museum, and the average speed is about 34km away and all of this concerns about the safety of passengers, goods and everything else is being resolved through speed, and it is constantly being reduced. I think it should stop, that it has to be invested in infrastructure. As far as the direction of Zagreb-Slavonski Brod continues to the east, it is the direction of one European corridor which is certainly a priority and Europe is just giving funds to maintain these corridors such as this valley corridor that goes Rijeka-Zagreb-Budapest and this corridor will become priorities. These projects are practically there, there's no need to buy land, there's not going to change like here on the lowline rail corridor, and I think it's a relatively simple project to modernise, and I think we should prepare it as soon as possible, because there's a lot of burden we can draw from this 4th corridor going up north and I think it's a priority. As far as Vinkovci-Vukovar is concerned, it is the same part of that strategic where we connect Luka Vukovar and continue intermodal transport to ships and everything, it will come to life. Here's how Mr. Chacic wants it. Don't mind that. I'm not for every municipality, every county depending on the current government to use it, so do some railroads, local railways that won't have a load, not have a passenger, because it can be solved by some other intermodal way, by any other bus, by anything else that these people tie up and that these people get adequate care that they can come to school and get a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52816	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52817	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Ćosic, I listened carefully to your debate, here I can almost agree with everything, the only little I didn't like in the replica I don't know who when you mentioned that because of the war events we lost part of the freight transport, yet I think 20 years is a little too much to get away with what was happening to us because we had certainly enough time to catch up on what we lost. I agree with you definitely in the fact that the number of passengers has been reduced over the years. I was also like my colleague Misic, especially while I was in college, driving on a train and witnessing events that could be called intentional killing of the timetable, and simply as if from these timetables and all absurd situations that occur in the rail transport, one thinks it happens on purpose. Now I remembered a few minutes ago the example from Daruvar was driving a train to Zagreb and suddenly they... at five o'clock in the morning, coming up at eight which now mentions the science fiction of whether the train is no longer driving, you can't do it in three hours although the bus from Banova Jaruga and Kutine to Zagreb are driving half an hour longer, but let's say at that moment 15 years ago they changed their schedule, the train leaves half an hour earlier at half five minutes away from Sirac, you wait there half an hour to pass the other train. There is simply no hearing in HZ Passenger Transport or in conversation with local self-government, especially on those railways and routes where there is no large passenger transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52818	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52819	Dear counterpart Babić, I agree with you that it has been a long time, but for this lagging behind the rail infrastructure system that we had before the Homeland War and, of course, seven, eight years when it was not possible to pass through that corridor of free goods and cargo, it is a long period. Infrastructure is outdated, and an even bigger problem is to restore infrastructure, an even bigger problem is that we have lost the trust of various investors who need to transport their goods in that direction is still insecure and through Serbia still still, simply went goods to other corridors, passenger transportation to the good part too, so it is important to gain one trust. So one political security, one security in infrastructure that these goods will arrive at a certain time in a certain place, is certainly a good prerequisite. And as far as this local integration and interoperability is concerned, we need to work very hard on this, because the EU is giving priority to these main corridors, but it can certainly be done with domestic resources and part of European resources to fix the situation, because it's very important that the interoperability of the rail system with these other systems, because it improves people's migration, not that migration to go outside, but to come to their work in time neatly to arrive and it will stay in its place, the children will stay there, people will stay in those areas it's a very good segment. But I think that local and regional community must be much more involved so that these timetables that certainly don't correspond to children coming three hours early before school starts in Slavonski Brod it's not good, it's not okay, so I think we need a lot of things in common in one consensus to solve, the consensus of the profession and the consensus of politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52820	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A esteemed colleague, Cossic. I appreciate and respect what you have stated since you are a representative of the ruling that in the past 25 years in the Croatian Railways there has been little work, so we can say nothing. We bring strategies, but we just don't move from a dead end. My colleague Misic said that really railways can do that with us, and you said that there is a need to protect national interest and we can protect them really as a museum example. Because today's Europe sees it developing right across the railroad, and we're standing here. We have no projects, we do not withdraw funds from the EU, we are simply unprepared. I remember the strategy when this railway of Rijeka – Zagreb, which should be the vein of the housewives right in freight transport as a port, was mentioned. But we also from Istria County, unlike Slavonia where it was mentioned were the Vinkovci even a proposal in 2015 to rail through the Istrian County to shut off, toss even the railway tickets of the Republic of Croatia. But I would like to remind this esteemed Parliament and MPs that the late President Franjo Tudjman immediately set up there in the 1990s a cornerstone for connecting the Istrian railway line with the rest of the railway in the Republic of Croatia, but to this day there is simply no one in this strategy proposed by the government in August of this year, which I believe should come to this Parliament without a railway line in Istria County. It is regrettable that precisely the possibilities that it provides through the transport of passengers to Pula, connecting I will say to Central Western Europe from Vienna to Munich and continue to put into function what I have already said in this Bršica Port Assembly as the only potential port still on this Adriatic that can be developed for freight transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52822	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52823	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I wouldn't go back to the railroad again, we're aware of what happened. I wouldn't want anyone in particular to say apostrophe and call for such a condition, i.e. a condition that has happened in these 25 years. As for Rijeka port, Rijeka port is one point, a strategic point in the world, at the world level of 17 of some geostrategic points in transport is one of these ports of Rijeka. And I think that from four points in Europe is the port of Rijeka. We, too, must put this potential of the Rijeka port, which they have as ports but of course also railways, the low-road railways must be put into operation as quickly as possible because there is no delay. There's no need, is there? Why not? If the world is to say the corridors of transport, the burdens recognize the point of the river as such, then it simply has to develop and we talk about it. Some shares are now in these plans to work. It is done this up Long Village – Crosses. I mean up there is that part working, but just that whole direction needs to be done. As far as Istria itself is concerned, of course it should mean it and the profession agree and politics, but also the profession of saying how many goods there are, how many there... Is it just for passenger traffic? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And therefore categorize that railroad that already exists there and that traffic is taking place on it. Of course it would be good to connect with Rijeka and those main routes to Rijeka, one part of the international traffic that goes with it, meaning from Spain up north goes through Italy as well. It passes, and the other leg could connect with the port of Rijeka so that they could get some cargo that would go through Istria. But here's what I'm saying. It takes one consensus and a profession and a policy to get into it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52824	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52825	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, I'm going to do you a little bit of a notional correction, but benevolently so when you say there are funds for the EU railway. So it's not for the railway, it's for the infrastructure 99% so the citizens don't think there's any means to passenger CARGO. Something perhaps small for some common connection to other aspects of traffic. It is also important to stress that unfortunately I say twenty-one, unless, if projects fail on the Mediterranean corridor, you will not be able to build anything from the European funds from Zagreb to the east. So, you can only build from Zagreb to the Slovenian border if it enters the core of the network to build it I say new, not even restore it. Now, there are a few problems that you've pointed out as well. So I agree with you that the railway can be a generator of economic growth is just a question of whether it can be in Croatia after the destroyed industry. So that's one crucial question. In fact, we can ask the same question, even though it is not at all the subject of this law, how much effect on Croatian economies is even these projects in infrastructure, so how much can Croatian companies actually subscribe in the construction of how many of these 100 euros I say borders, so stay in Croatia. And how transformed it will be in Austria, Germany, even because of those primary construction works. And what I'm saying is what's key and in this law is actually a question, so which question I might even have to ask the secretary of state. So we've had some projects, I'm not saying that I was ideal, away from it. So, we were able to negotiate something. Here's my colleague Shuker was then I think even at the HBOR Supervisory Board he even warned twice that we couldn't agree between ourselves. But we managed to get some of those 22 new trains that Concar was doing to finance. So the key questions are services here. Does the current government say, therefore, it has at all certain financial resources to continue this programme so that services can be raised. Or what are the answers to CARGO which unfortunately I say loses traffic. So, a private operator came in, and the Hungarians are taking over 15% of the market. Now let me remind you, I know a second. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] So, I think that a year ago, the Commission also approved the plan to restructure CARGO and passenger transport. I don't see anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52826	The answer of the distinguished representative, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52827	Thank you very much, dear colleague. When I was talking about the railroad I was thinking about normal infrastructure, I said either it was about trains. It's one of the colloquial names of the railroad. The railway is an infrastructure, so trains that drive, wagons, compositions and other station infrastructures, crossings, that's all that infrastructure that these coins are insured for. And they should be withdrawn. I do not agree with you that it will hardly benefit our economy, because a lot of companies are working and it has worked in the very construction of infrastructures that went into bankruptcy, we take Gredelj who went into bankruptcy 4, 5 years ago, a new company has made itself and it has been put into bankruptcy, I think it is inadmissible and that the state needs to do something to get it back from bankruptcy and that there can be hired thousands of people who will work for both our railway infrastructure and the rest of the market. What good could it be? So here you take in HZ infrastructure is the company's daughter... It cannot report to these competitions where European funds are and let's say our Slovenians have singled out investment tracking into another state agency, so investment is separate and of course that they can then report to the companies of the daughter... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we should be pulling it out of that part soon, means investing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, with us, every company invests for itself, whether it is coordinated with the ministry, is in line with the latter, means investment care, for your time, means investment concerns should be entered into one agency, whether it is the Railway Safety Agency or whether it can be for development and investment that will continue to call the competition, so that our companies that are now perhaps in conflict of interest because they are directly connected to the investor, they can work because it is a company that employs over 1000 people and a company that is certainly well equipped to invest. And not to mention the other small companies that are connected to it and that will certainly work better and under better conditions with our performers than with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52828	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52829	Thank you very much. Comrade Ćosic, in your address on behalf of the club you pointed out some things in a law that has one technical adjustment, but from the replica from your speech it is evident as very often happens in the assembly, that it is said that there is little money being allocated for something. So I would recommend to my colleagues that they look at budget executions, reports on the day and outstanding guarantees in the past 16, 17 years, and then you will see that shipbuilding, Croatian railways and agriculture are over a third of what we call public debt of the Republic of Croatia, which is set aside, and the situation in the railways is what we have today. When he started some kind of railroad restructuring program, there was this so-called The working ratio where Croatian railways had to be helped from the state budget, somewhere around 2.70 kuna, in order to exist at all. However, we are in another position today. On the one hand, we took 20 lipes to the Croatian highways and gave the Croatian railways on behalf of the construction of the infrastructure, we came into a position so that we could withdraw funds from the EU for the construction of the infrastructure, but what is crucial and what we must finally do is not speak in the railways as something negative, and that is what has a perspective, which is going to be done in a way that should be invested, where the state wants there to be some direction then let the budget ensure that this line is subsidized for a variety of reasons and not that someone is creating losses, and then these losses are patched up in this way. And this debate today, as in the first reading, went in another direction, went in the direction of major problems in the Croatian Railways and I will finish my replica. What can definitely do great, these are suburban railways, around Zagreb, around Split, so unfortunately very little is invested. When we take the example of Velika Gorica and Samobor, it's definitely a suburban railroad that would work great.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52830	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52831	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shuker, you would have nothing to add to your replica, it is good to remember and to mention how much aid the subsidy was invested in railways, invested in shipbuilding and infrastructure. Unfortunately, it used to be not for development but for buying some social peace. We know how many surpluses there have been in railway companies, but here, which is where Europe has come, Europe has its own rules, these rules we have to adhere to, I don't think time is as lost as it isn't in shipbuilding. Our shipbuilding is sold and it is slowly restructured and will surely take one place on the market, so our railways have a chance and here I mean that, we can remember how much it was, how much the state has given but here's what it is, there it is, that's it. We still have to continue EU rules. We have a good position, so 10 billion kuna is secured for our infrastructure and I believe this government will use those funds and will get a new standard and service and transport both goods and passengers on our railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52832	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52833	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to ask you a question right now, I see that you are, and my colleague Shucker said quite well how much boredom has been invested in the railroad. A fellow Shuker noted, you said it was a huge amount and should check how much has been invested as in shipbuilding and agriculture and see where the most invested is, that is the worst situation. The fact that we have to look for solutions since we entered the EU, the only thing we're copying directives and regulations, and we're listening to stories that are foggy, I guess in front of these lights of the Parliament, that we don't lose reality and reality, but the fact is that there's no money in Croatia because there's no investment, because they can't be seen. The only thing we've done, what we've adapted to the directives and opened instead of one company in the railways, five, so we could open another, tourist-museum activity because just as much money that's invested, I don't know what the amount is, and I believe that my colleague Schuker is aware of how much of the amount is being invested, where are these funds then invested? Where'd they go? Who'd they go to? You can't see in reality, you can't see in the real world, so look at what the rail infrastructure looks like. People who live often use it, and I often use it, it's not visible in the field. Maybe under these lights in the reports we see big investments, we see nice directives, neat exposure from our secretary, but the fact is that we can only open a museum tourist activity in this state. Someone is responsible, can't just be responsible for all Sanader and now Todoric. Someone is responsible for this condition. But let's find... And he's responsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's been invested that much and there's no real responsibility, then we can't even find a solution because these people are still in charge of who's responsible for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52834	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52835	Thank you very much. Well, here we have to put ourselves in the circumstances of our market, so the railroad, I said about what part of it was without losing the market it had, agriculture was in similar circumstances, shipbuilding and those money that was given, state subsidies were given safely in the development of the railroads. Whether it was used to say the right way about it then, there were some railways that had less burden, some local railways weren't working, these strategic projects that really need big, big procedures, so here's the opportunity, now there's a political decision, one consensus to take their position that we're going to go into railway development, I said, because it's a priority and the EU, it's a priority that a good part of the burden means 40% of road loads should be transferred to railways and other species, meaning river and maritime traffic and that the mission of greenhouse gases and everything else should be reduced. And of course that transport is much cheaper and much better and much faster. And I hope that we here will use these resources in the right direction and that we will say modernising our railways and what happened before and how it was and that's why someone can always explore. And I believe that most of those funds that they spent the days were meant to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52836	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52837	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Cosic, in your presentation, you were actually talking about the circumstances in which the Croatian railway is aware of all the facts in history but also from these presentations of colleagues in their replicas and those times when we lived in a common space where certain passenger routes, freight routes, what could actually be used, aware of the configuration of the terrain and what is today the Croatian Railway. You have at one point actually shown how in fact the Croatian Railway has invested a part of the funds that receive the Croatian cluster. This is what makes me particularly happy because we know that in our first reading we talked about young people who receive prizes outside of Croatia regarding certain solutions for the railway. And we asked how much this is used in the Croatian railway, you were also saying that it is used and today you have actually shown in the debate that the Croatian cluster has received significant funds related to an autostop device, a guard for the engineer, in fact which is not only used and built into the Republic of Croatia but how much I know and from the media how much they wrote is used in both Canada and India and other countries. It is important that the Croatian economy is helped and that Croatian railways participate. This is also the way from those funds we use from the state budget to help the Croatian economy. And I'm glad you pointed that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52838	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52839	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. I just wanted to say that, give an example, that the implementation of these laws that we bring here with European legislation is just not a mere letter on paper. It is indeed an opportunity where our economy can be included. And I'm betting that a lot of our economies can be involved in order for these 10 billion kuna funds to be realised. So it doesn't just go to foreign companies and foreign people and performers who come to this market that we have a lot of our operatives. Of course we have to include both the professions and the colleges and everything else, those money won't come overnight to equip and be competitive on this. And it's good to say this paper clip that I noticed a week ago where you can see where domestic companies that are already exporting these devices to other continents that have gathered into one cluster and that they will continue to get this job in public competition and that they will continue to perform on the market. So this implementation is an opportunity for our economy and it's up to us to see how we take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52840	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52841	Thank you very much. So Col. Ćosic, through your discussion and the debate of the State Secretary could be heard about the strategic interest, strategic interest such as construction, reconstruction etc. I would remind you that today's strategic interest in our country is to stop the outflow of our population, especially young people. And on that basis, I'd just like to point out that I agree with a part of what you said, but you may speak nicely, but life is denying you. It was your colleague from Požega-Slavon County in 2010 that he proposed to the HDZ government, which was then led by Jadranka Kosor to remove the Pleklernica-Caglin-Nasice railway. And the Velika Požega railroad is down to 25km, which is actually the railways know the introduction to stop that railroad too. So, I say, I repeat, life has denied you, you speak nicely, but the fact of what's done down there, what's done to Slavonia, it's terrible, terrible in any respect or in traffic, or in rail, however you like. And there was a change in power in 2011, we succeeded, we were able to reconstruct the Velika Požega railway and train it for the next period. We managed to secure the funds and establish traffic Pleternica-Caglin and achieve all preparations for continuing the Caglin-Nasice railroad. There's been a change of government again, HDZ has come to power, and you know what happened, there's nothing going on, there's absolutely nothing going on, even though it's all in the plans, even though it's all secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52842	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52843	Thank you very much. Well normally that strategic interest in traffic development would be road, rail, maritime, river transport is the strategic interest to improve the economy, and thus certainly keep people in those areas where they live, prevent that eviction. Only if the real investment to an existing railway that once existed was a burden, they might have had some other conditions and there were more people on that part of the food that were building a railway line in one direction and that one government approved it to do so, the other government hitched it to a halt that was not good at all. But the waist has to say whether this railroad is necessary, let's say that the Pleternica-Caglin railroad was built by some 75 million kunas as much as I remember it was spent, whether it had enough loads, no loads, whether it had enough passengers, if somehow otherwise it could be solved, better, cheaper. And certainly people should come as I said before and to work and come to school from those areas, keep living there if people in the west travel 50km to their work and more, but they have this interoperability represented where those from the bus immediately get on the train and what it does or vice versa when it goes home. It's not an event with us, and it wouldn't just leave it to politics to build these stripes. Of course, Slavonia is not only in this depravated region, she was denied by the adoption of those NUC regions where we were divided into two regions, where we became twice as rich as we are and of course our subsidies are less. And no one from Zagreb will come to Slavonia to invest if under the same conditions can invest here in Zagreb. Someone on the outside will also invest here in this part of Croatia, will not go to Slavonia, will go to Slavonia then go to Hungary where these regional support are 50%, and we have 30%, and I think it must be fixed in the next step, in order for our Slavonia to catch some step of development towards European regions and...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52844	Thank you very much. We will now go to the SDP Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Vedran Babic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52845	Thank you, Vice President. She's a respected secretary with co-workers from the ministry. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The secretary introduced us to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the Railway Market and to the protection of passenger rights in rail transport, to the fact that we are harmonising technical law with EU directives, but here we see that the debate has gone in the direction of what we are all aware of, and that is that the railways in our country are in no way working. A part of the infrastructure which, unfortunately, we as citizens look at with the environment and neighbouring countries in some way and we are ashamed, but also in Bosnia and Serbia, it is not better than with us, but it cannot be a reason to be satisfied. Also reading the draft law states what will be regulated, I most certainly deprive myself of what I think is certainly a priority and must be the most important one, which is that the law will deal with the protection of passenger rights in rail transport or improving the quality of the efficiency of passenger services in rail transport with the aim of increasing rail transport in relation to other modes of transport. This problem also includes timely obtaining service information, taking care of disabled passengers and reduced mobility. The fact is that the situation on the ground is particularly related to HH infrastructure in this respect, which is very, very bad. Simply when we speak first of all to persons with reduced mobility on a large number of train stations it is almost impossible for persons to approach, to get on a train, even there are a lot of these local stations where the passenger must be athletic buildings in order to be able to jump if there are no terrains, jump directly to the gravel, pensioners and small children have a problem getting on the train without mentioning movement and on the train itself, what are the toilets, what happens to the very way travel is definitely not the concern. I can point out that the former government has ordered and bought 23 new trains, there it stops, and it simply does not even go in that area of buying new trains. As for the very infrastructure of the banal that there are still cells where you don't have a classic platform, where a person can normally get on the train is also one of the embarrassing facts that happens to us in the 21st century. In order to increase quality and services, of course, it is also necessary to work on infrastructure routes. You respected secretaries said that over two billion projects are being prepared, we are already as many in the EU, four years in four years only the St. Ivan Žabno-Gradac, the caller's tender and the works started during the SDP government, I see that in these two years the HDZ government has absolutely nothing to do with it, nothing new. The fact is, it's a new track, the first one in almost 50 years to be built. Unfortunately, we have inherited almost most of the infrastructure from Austria-Hungarian countries, the Yugoslav railways have also not been at the level that anyone has misunderstood that it was better before. But it wasn't good then, either. It wasn't at European level. And when we talk about Europe, we think about Germany and France where it's brought to some of the best limits, the best levels in the world. But I would certainly also be pleased that Croatia has a railway in the very near future such as has Spain, that we have such trains, that we have modernized stations, that coins or cards can buy tickets so that you don't have to go to the counter, that people with reduced mobility are allowed access to each train, that trains are not late, that when it comes to the timetable to listen to local self-government and not that there's just no hearing, that on the track where one train can't be moved at 5 o'clock, to coordinate the timetable, but to get to the place where the precedent is and there's another hour and a half. And just like I told my colleague, Sagara, in the replica, that's what I felt as a student, and now it's even worse. It is thought that someone wants to kill certain directions, or lines of passenger transport. Let's not talk about this transport. We also have a project of Slavonia. How much rail infrastructure is in the Slavonia project. Daruvar, Pakrac, down Lipik and north towards Vucin, towards Suhopol, that is, western Slavonia. That's where the railroad's closed. This part of our country is rich in stone, rich in wood, training the entire railroad, so Banova Jaruga-Bečelic, we will give a good incentive for the economic development of this undeveloped part of Croatia. That's what you always say, let's say, specifically, that railroad is put under the carpet. In his own way, while the president of HZ infrastructure management Mr. Peričić was through, by means of his own means, means even by changing the installation of old tracks and very small investments that, a good part of that railway with the ability to continue to be closed and has always been afraid with some hundred million, hundreds of millions of figures needed to train that railway. Unfortunately, it's not the only railroad. Here there are similar examples in the pospora end, but not giving business entities a chance to develop in a way that allows them to get as high-quality and cheaper transportation as possible, I think the whole policy is simply a failure. So here's mine too, I'd like to see, although it's not a topic, but you can see for yourself that the debate went in this direction, I'm curious to know at all what stage these projects are that you're talking about 2 billion euros in investment and whether new trains are being considered in the ministry at all, and these other things I believe we'll have hearing and money so that Croatian railways will certainly raise at least one level more. We could certainly talk about this subject by morning, because the problem is a lot, but here I hope that with our support for this harmonisation of the law with the European directives we will go towards a consensus to really determine which priorities are and to raise rail transport to a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52846	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. I'd just ask all the speakers to try to stick to the subject though. I'm aware that railways are something that interests us all and something that is vital to the country but let's try to narrow it down as much as we can. But we have, we have said more replicas, the first of the distinguished representatives of Giovanni Sponze. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So at the very end where you yourself said that this is a subject that is vital. Since you colleagues of Babić, just like your predecessors, have touched on the topic, the very poor conditions of railway infrastructure, I would like to say from my point of view and repeat what I have so far in the debate in this House said that we are constantly dealing with the consequences and that we rarely talk about the causes. You touched at the end of your project preparedness presentation. And when we talk about the cause I ask whether the cause actually lies in the Croatian railways, whether this system has finally become proactive or remained inert. Do they really work to prepare projects where all together we need to see the opportunity offered through the great attraction of funds from EU funds and whether there is any indication that the HZ system that is truly capacitated as regards the number of total employees has taken one step and a shift where we finally need to start talking about the form of responsibility. It is definitely confirmed that the projects are not ready, definitely some have not realized that they must have a proactive approach and the next one probably, if nothing is unfortunately changed in the future, then the next call will also talk about how we see an opportunity in the EU funds but we haven't achieved any shifts. This is an important topic, we need to point out the causes and we need to look for responsibility, we need to work on projects. We definitely have to say about any municipal or other infrastructure projects and admit that we're not ready enough and that's a serious problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52848	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52849	Here, thank you. Dear fellow Sponzo, here I am to answer you probably as I do, that my answer is, of course, negative. Unfortunately, trends show that the situation in the Croatian railways is getting worse and worse. The schedules themselves, they confirm the same thing. Twenty years ago, the Daruvar-Zagreb line was driving for three hours. Now it's almost impossible. I think fellow Simic mentioned that from Kutina to Zagreb, he is now driving half an hour, they think, I believe in a fast train. 15, 20, 15 years ago, that trip lasted an hour. What to say. Projects, I believe, are unprepared. Here, specifically when I was talking about the line of Frog-Gradac, I'll just point out that the construction of projects was attended by the Bjelovar-Bilogor County and the municipalities. So throughout the process, all of these preparations around the expropriation and about the project documentation itself, maybe that's how local and regional self-government sort of brings before the final act, a state that has most of the money to focus money on their projects. Although we must also be aware of the fact that cities and counties do not have the capacity for such a thing. And I certainly hope so, your county probably does. If it's not yours, then there's not one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52850	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you've put on an accent and what's most important in this law is the protection of passengers. And that's certainly what you need to take care of. I was lucky to be driving on Monday, probably one of these 23 newly acquired trains from Zagreb to Koprivnica. And there's a conductor coming to Vrbovac and he says we're going to the bus, we're going to the Cross on the bus. There was a young girl sitting next to me, and she looks confused. Through the conversation, I got involved, I realized she wasn't from Croatia, she was Bulgarian, from Bulgaria, and I said, "Come with me alone, we'll cross over." But what I'm trying to say. She was thrilled about what a train it was, like we have railroads. And then it was just me, so is it possible that there's something worse than what's in our house and what we're all talking about all the time? It's true something was done. We have what you said and in the transport of disabled persons, there is the possibility of Croatian railways, going to meet, though, should be announced 48 hours earlier, but they service such cases neatly and there is no problem. Also introduced is the carriage of bicycles, it is possible to buy tickets via the Internet, it has special trains. The Easter train is still advertised, though it is now, but I don't want to talk about it. What I want to ask you is, we certainly need to see what strategic interests are. But do you personally consider that, regardless of the rentability, all current railways, i.e. lines, should remain and be subsidized or there is still the possibility of determining what needs to be left and which cannot be justified for any reason, i.e. to introduce alternatives, i.e. alternative transports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52852	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52853	Now let me tell my colleagues, to answer your question, do they need all the lines I can't know. But I honestly believe that the vast majority of them should remain, because precisely because of this subsidy received by HZ passenger transport, railways must also have that social measure as such in the transport of passengers. Because if we're paying for school bus rides, why don't we sort of subsidize and in that sense through the railroad. Only local self-government is expected to co-finance it. It is also necessary to definitely talk about the maintenance and construction of the new infrastructure to think about the economic part, where they are, the potential for the expansion of both the stone, wood and other raw materials we have, because in order to be able to be a competitive railway must be included in the transport. Especially with these raw materials with a low unit price. And yes, here, if I have to say globally, we're going to have to maintain as many of these lines as possible, because the fact is that if we look at the last 50 years, much, much more tracks are closed than they've opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52854	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Tomislav Klaraic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52855	Comrade Babic, you said he was afraid of people with hundreds of millions of kuna investment in the railway, so you pointed out a whole series of problems, investment in the railway that should be done or not done. In my opinion, this situation on the railroad, it started there in the late '90s and then here with all these restructurings, and I don't know what. We can invest hundreds of millions of kunas, but billions of kunas in the railroad unless thought and strategy change. It won't be any of it. We're talking about a plain track, Rijeka-Zagreb. I can speak responsibly about the railroad exactly that River-Zagreb, the old railway, because it was run and operated by traffic in one part of that railway. At that time with a far weaker track than it is now, at lower speeds. Back in the '80s, '90s. In one shift, she was attracted to some 40, 50 trains. And there was no problem, the trains were folding, they were full of loads. Only Copper Station generated 10, 15 trains. Scarlevovo Station, where the great compositions were being made. There was nothing better track than now, it was far worse. Far less equipped. But the complete picture, the complete vision of our economy, has changed. The railroad could never or will ever make some kind of strong income. But he can... development generator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the cargo from the Rijeka port today? Is it on the railroad and how much of it is in relation to road traffic and speedboats driving around? Comparing the traffic of passenger and freight traffic in the symbiosis of one and the other, we could talk about some kind of development. But if the complete picture of our economy and the thinking of that economy doesn't change, then it won't change with what investments in the railroad. And not to mention the stories of Gredell, the great property that the railroad has in this way since 2001, which I can talk about, argue, is a witness here in Rijeka at the river station that was happening who was getting the property that was abandoned today, empty and collapsed. So when we talk about the railroad, then we need to think about strategy and thinking on a completely different basis than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52856	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52857	Comrade Klaric, we agree on everything in principle. We don't agree on just one thing when you said the infrastructure was worse then, but now, that's not the rule at all. We unfortunately have a fact... Okay. for the river track, but the fact is because of all these things that have been happening I am convinced that we ourselves have knowingly or not killed this rail transport, both by passenger and freight by giving insufficient effort to revitalise the track. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] True, we are not in favour of the Southeast border where the infrastructure is much worse, and we depend on it as well, but we have not had time to work seriously on the Rijeka-Zagreb railway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52858	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52859	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear officers, ministry officials, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm a railway man, so I hope I can speak with certain competences about the railroad. My dad was a railroadman in '65, '64. He was working on the railroad in Split as a spring overseer, as a spring manager in fact, my mother was visiting him in Split, he was living in the car during that time, and I was born in '65, so I came from the railways so that I was exactly what the real railwayman was. I graduated from high school, which was very demanding, I don't know what she's like now, but in my day she was very, very demanding, I'm going to give you an example. One professor who taught the use of the car we had it was quite a difficult subject where we had to learn a lot, among other things we had to learn all series and sub-series of wagons, numerical and letter marks on cars and old and new, we had to know thousands of signs of what they meant on certain wagons. And if someone rebelled against the professor and told him, but Professor, it's hard, Professor... he'd say, "Who's hard to farm?" So the railroad is not an easy job, the railroad needed a good deal of work and a good job on the railroad. Later, I also finished Traffic College Railways and I've been working since '88. years on the railway until coming here to the Croatian Parliament. The railway before the Homeland War was an example of business, it was not perfect, but it was an example. After the Homeland War, the railroad was ignored in it was not invested, it slowly collapsed I'll give you only two examples. Already someone said from Zagreb to Kutina is now traveling by fast train for almost an hour and a half, in the 1990s Sava Express business train drove from Zagreb to Kutina 45 minutes. The Zagreb-Dubova railway is 60km/h, and this railroad brings money, so this is a railway where the fluctuation of passengers is huge and does not invest in this railway but is a rag. Now they're patching up the thresholds because the builders wanted to cut the speed on the track because it was totally running out, and then they quickly scraped up some thresholds and replaced them to stay at 60km/h. The state treats the railway as a machete, but only to the railway as something it produces, workers are not treated so machetely. The railway is very good for workers and is good for workers, especially those who make a lot of money. So I would go, I'm going to have to talk about problems on the railroad, I'm going to have to talk about it, not exactly the law, because the problems on the railroad are why the railroad doesn't work right today, and a little who talks about it this publicly, and I, who am from the system, know what it is and I have to say some things. I remember when the stories of the division of railways started, the first thing that happened was that they abolished the transport of partial shipments, it was privatized, it became so-called. Home Express and something that was bringing income was transferred to private property. Today there's no more transporting partial shipments, maybe it could've stayed, I don't know. I say the tracks are in bad shape, they must be brought to a better condition. In what way? It takes huge investment. I don't know if it's possible otherwise than the concession, I really don't know. Whether the Republic of Croatia is able to finance billions of euros, not kuna, in order to bring the railway to the level before the war, because all it takes is to bring the railways into their condition in which they are built. So the railways must be in the state they were in when they were built, most railways on Croatian railways are far from there. I remember the situation when we tried as a bit of an increase in speed to Split so we got to Split faster, so we decided we'd buy bend trains. I was already telling people from management that it was not good because the slope trains are not used for long journeys but for short intercity trips on shares where the track is such, hilly, in turns, so that faster can come, then such trains are used but only in urban traffic because they are very uncomfortable, are not for remote travel. However, it was a policy, so let's go buy us a bending train, and we'll cut speed to five and a half, six hours to Split. And what's going on? Today I don't know if they're driving two tilt trains from bought, and I don't even know how much they bought, 12 or 10, I think they only drive two. We had a case of that, uh, heavy one of those accidents, and I'm saying that that accident isn't gonna happen if it wasn't a bent train, I'm saying. If it was another train, it wouldn't have happened. So it was a big mistake, no one answers for that failure. The problem is that in this system of ours no one is responsible for the failures. Decisions are made, those decisions are harmful, no one answers. I remember when the railroad was divided, I said at the time that the railroad didn't have to be divided into special companies, but that the railway could remain a corporation and those new companies that the railway was divided into, it must only be financially separated. So the railroad could have been a corporation. Like the German railroads are a corporation. We didn't have the power to divide these companies, but we had the coercion to know who was spending what. And what did we get with the railroad division? We formally divided them, and instead of cutting costs, costs were increased and above all in the administrative section. There's been a build-up of managers to the unconscious, a manager who basically doesn't manage a lot, but just listen to what they're told, don't wave. So, don't wave, on that principle they work. Not on the principle of creation, not on the principle of research, who in the company knows how to do his job well so as to improve it to run some business, but on principle, don't wave, and the best thing for me is to be subject to me and to be nodded. That's the best one. So it's not the best one who does his job well, it's the best one who nods his head. In addition, the railroad has been through the history of our, fresh history, a place where politically exhausted people are placed. Someone gets politically exhausted, they don't know where to go with him, let's go to the railroad. Someone gets out of some failed company like us, let's get on the railroad. And so that system is big and then he puts up with it all. But it's harmful to the railroad and the railroad is becoming less and less and less railways, and it's increasingly turning into a system that only serves something I'm going to say just like that, infatuation. I've been thinking for a long time whether to talk about it because for me it's even dangerous, today I can lose my seat here in the Parliament, I'm going back to that system, and now I'm saying these things against that system. It's not good for me, but I have to say. I'll set my own example. For many years, I've run a business as one manager, not as a manager, but as a manager of traffic regulations. I think I peaked at that job and I was dad-mate about it. But I never got a chance to run these jobs as a manager, ever. Once the opportunity came for me to run such a business, I even made an application to the administration to appoint me head of such a service. The management didn't answer me. Then the administration said again, they changed the organization, and now, based on that new organization, I re-applyed, and no one answered me. So they named one man who's actually never worked for me for the boss. I later objected and asked the administration to answer me by which this man who was elected chief is better than me, whether he had more experience than me, which he did better than me that he was chosen, I didn't get an answer again. She was actually the president of Mrs. Susha's administration at the time. That Mrs. Susha, then president of the administration, never answered my questions. Never. So they just ignored me. I could've just gone to some D.A., the Ministry, I don't know who, but I'd actually get hurt. The truth is, they didn't touch me, they didn't punish me, but they kind of gave me the creeps. Let him speak his own, 'who cut him.' And that's how it works, I believe most of the stuff in the state sector. So, this political clientelism, it's the cancer of the wounds of all our state systems. Only if we end political clientelem, will the railway be a real company. Only in that case. Otherwise, no way. Next, I don't know if you know how to protect the railroad workers. It's just something I find scary. Before the Homeland War, there was a so-called the protection of workers who lose their health skills and then if they worked for 15 years on certain jobs, keep the same salary they had before, which was higher but go to less responsible jobs because they lost their health skills. Who was that referring to? This refers to maneuvers, detours, train traffickers, warehouses, so executive workers, those people who are directly in production and who do difficult jobs and because of these difficult jobs often lose their health skills. And what happened after the Homeland War? That protection is extended to management. Imagine you, the wife of the manager on the Croatian Railways who worked 15 years on the railway, so whatever she did for 15 years on the railway, for a year she was just doing management jobs with about 13,14 thousand kuna salaries, in the 51st year of life she was removed from that job to some reference job and she still received 13,14 thousand kunas. How much damage has the Republic of Croatia done? Imagine the damage, and it's all part of the union and the administration, of course. Unions don't do their jobs at all. I suggested to the unions that the collective contract prescribe a system of progress. Because if it were a system of advancement, it would mean that no one could do any important work until he was first on the lower job. I, when I came to work for a train driver, first I had to learn what a mover was doing, what a maneuver does, what a warehouse does, what a passenger register does, what a freighter does, all I had to know was to be a sort of boss to those people below. A man comes in from somewhere today, he has no idea about the railroad, he's the boss, the director, anything, the board president, the board member, he's never seen the railroads. But it doesn't matter. That's all she can do. It's political clientism is actually corruption, the worst kind. He's a cancer, a wound to the Republic, we have to stop it. So, the railway has a chance, only if we give priority to quality, results of work and if we finally start investing in infrastructure, because the infrastructure is the one that stops development. The infrastructure that makes it impossible, at least 100km/h on important lines, is a very bad infrastructure and carriers simply cannot make profit on such tracks. I can't. At the rate of speed, the transporters will arrive. So it's not about the economy, it's about international transport. International transport will increase if we increase speed, and for that is the relevant HZ infrastructure. If it's not possible to invest these huge billions of euros that need to be invested in the railroad, we're going to concessions. Let's go. Why not? But concessions must be agreed in a fair manner. Here, I'm glad you listened to me, I came from that system, I said some things about that system. If it's an early election, I could get hurt, but I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52860	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52861	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Alexic, of course you wouldn't like to get in the way of what you said. But I don't think that's the point. Because what you're saying, from what I understand, is that you're speaking out of some belief, because of your conviction. Of course, there are things I agree with, and I don't agree with them in your debate. But first, to make one thing right, six tilt trains drive now. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, As far as railway school is concerned, that's what you know, lifelong learning, and then requalifications, I agree with you and my nephew ended up here in Zagreb railway technical school. He didn't get a job on the train, he went to Germany to work. Some of his other peers who had completed other types of school, who could not leave, came from Slavonia to Zagreb, later requalified and got a job on the railway. It's one of the same injustices, but we can't stop it, because there is, I say, in the education system, that horizontal flow, right. And now I start at the end, you say investment in infrastructure. Well, of course that's the most important thing. And most importantly, what we actually want through the strategy. And the railway can be a strong incentive to develop industry and through what counterpart Ćosic has been saying about getting security signal devices, where companies that are joined in clusters or in some association that are easier to get that job in the area, to be domestic companies. Because they're hard to compete with foreign companies in that field. And this is an area of opportunity throughout the region for the development of such companies that are related to only the railway industry. But then the railroad itself can also stimulate the development of the industry in general in the Republic of Croatia and I think the railroad is the victim of the disappearance of the industry in the Republic of Croatia, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52862	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52863	I don't agree with your bet. I'm not talking out of conviction. I'm talking out of experience. I'm from that system, so I speak exclusively from experience, there's no belief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52864	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52865	My dear colleague, you said from a failed agonist company on the railroad, with the two of us, it's the opposite case. We went from the railroad to politics. You and I both know what we're talking about, but you're sending a full debate on this subject has been missed and did not refer to the topic itself. So, we are talking about the final proposal of the Law on the regulation of rail markets in servants and the protection of the rights of passengers in rail transport. And that should be a framework topic that we're talking about right now. What our Vice President Reiner warns us to stick to the subject, but I fully understand, and believe me, I know what you're talking about, the more the railroad is there, and I repeat again, the huge burden and the war until 2000, after 2000, the very thing you were talking about began to happen. So that's one time course of 17 years. And what I said about the condition of the railroad before the war until 2000, and today, I know about it the most, because I was working on it, there's no big oxidation. But can someone explain to me how Luka Kopar can have more weight than Luke Rijeka? A port that was some kind of small port in a small Slovenian town that should be deepened constantly. So the problem is not the very quality of the railroad. We can invest in it I don't know what millions and billions of kunas. We can build a straight line. If we don't think about the economy and reroute the burden on that railroad, there won't be anything. And these were the crazy things you were talking about. I used to say the same thing, because then I was some kind of station manager when the RVR was being shared, as they were already called, so HZ real estate, then HZ infrastructure, so HZ passenger transport, so he didn't know who was drinking, who was paying, and the railway structure, the hierarchical structure, it totally fell apart. So complete reflection will lead precisely in this direction in which we want legislation to be harmonised. The Rijeka Strip must take over the burden of Koper, otherwise we have no use for the plainsman's railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52866	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52867	Thank you. Dear colleague Klaric, I agree with you in principle, I did miss the topic, but I may have missed it on purpose for the first time since I missed the topic in Parliament, but I just had to talk about the railroad because it's at my heart. What can I do? I had to. In principle, the two of us agree on the point of view, it's not much different, but in order to attract a load on the railroad, the railroad has to do its part of the job, which I was just talking about, about this poor staffing, which is wrongly the same part for the situation where the railroad is now. So if we let people who are creative and who have good intentions and who want railways really well, give or run a railway business, it's going to be much better with policy having to give such people their hands off and let them work and then on the basis of how they're going to do some estimate policy on whether they need such administrations, for example. move or leave them. People like that should be allowed to work, and only if they don't work properly will they be removed. I believe that one administration in order to be successful must last at least 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52868	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished MPs Bernarda Topolko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52869	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Alexic, you mentioned patching and modernizing the railroad. Namely, I am not so lucky as my colleague that in an hour she could get to Zagreb by train, I am from Međimurje. On each arrival in Zagreb, I have been driving past the New Marof where people manually change the thresholds, five people. I now wonder when this modernization will reach Međimurje, to Međimurje, who had the first railway line in the Republic of Croatia in 1860, a railroad that went from... Kotoriba-Chakovec... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are talking about protecting the rights of passengers in rail transport but I believe that this includes both the speed and accuracy of the timetables. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the arrival of the train in Čakovec from Zagreb in 3 hours. I don't think that's a protection of law. Well, since you and I were working on the railroad, I'd like to hear your comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52870	The answer of the esteemed representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52871	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, that's exactly what I'm talking about. That the railroads that could make a profit, don't invest in them. Let's just say the Cacao railways, the cacao's are very turned to the railways and there should certainly be invested in the traffic, especially the passenger transport because people are turned to the railways. Unfortunately, he's not investing. It's not just that, except for the stripes, it's a problem in some things. Now I'll show you, I'm traveling by train and today I'm going to work, so Zapresic-Zagreb, Zagreb-Zaprešić, I'm going to work on a train. By this year it looked like a year's card, a year's ticket, I didn't even get this plastic wrapper, but I had to prepare that plastic wrapper myself and put these paper cards in it so I wouldn't get my hands on them. So that's what it looked like this year. Here this year I bought a new ticket to the railways and it finally looks right. Here, it took us long enough. But before that, we spent a lot of money on failures, so for the time being, while I was working on the railroad, we tried to introduce what the conductors have today, those electronic devices that display the cards in an electronic way. So these devices are bought, there's a lot of money invested, I don't know exactly how much, but it turns out you can't work with it and that money's been dumped. Also in that building in Mihanovic, it invested in central cooling. They spent pipes all over the building so that after they spent the whole building, they'd dig up the whole building, it turns out there aren't any more of those devices that could cool down like that. Millions have been spent, nothing. That's how we do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52872	Thank you. I'm asking you anyway, let's just focus on the subject a little bit, now we've come to cool down at the HH administration building. The last replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52873	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleksic, in your discussion you gave a personal trait, as we say in Zagreb in this whole story because you worked there for years and in some ways lived the lives of people employed in that system. What's important and what makes you see how much the railroad care in the Republic of Croatia is saying that people like you today are 30 thousand less than they were in the '90s. It means that neither our citizens nor our citizens benefit, unfortunately, not unfortunately but simply in the offer of services oriented towards buses and other forms of transport or passenger cars, and it is almost incredible that what European countries do not have is very rarely seen in interurban transport that so many buses are used, most people travel between states, between cities more than 300, 400, 500 kilometers with railways. With us as a rule citizens travel by bus and there is essentially the best, I would say, the best research, best assessment of what Croatia does with railways and how it invests in them, and in fact it is given by the consumers themselves, because if no one thinks of it, or a very small amount of people are thinking of sitting on a train from Zagreb to Split and from Zagreb to Osijek, everything is clear to you. So no one wants to drive 2, 3 hours more for that comfort that has in the railroad because of what that service level has remained almost at the same level for 20 years, and on that side your debate is essentially affected. No matter what else the law defines here, the railway and service quality should have been spoken of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52874	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52875	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Maras, well, if the railway was at the level to which it should be, it would be less burdensome on Zagreb as far as the people living in Zagreb are concerned. People would live in Novska, in Kutina, they would live in Karlovac, they would live and perhaps even in Split, they wouldn't buy apartments in Zagreb, they wouldn't rent apartments here in Zagreb, they would travel from their places where they live to Zagreb to work if a lot of people live on the outside in Zagreb. Therefore, this investment in railways would not be pointless in that regard either. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52876	Thank you very much. We continue with the point and will speak again this time in an individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52878	I'll be brief, I won't use it all the time if my colleague Alexic when he spoke I didn't want to replicate it. Basically he hit the core, the whole story consists of the potential of human within HH in all companies. Those who are high-quality tribals would advance, in no way as he said in his experience, that only a political card would be a measure of admission to responsible duties within all companies in HZ. The fact that we've been listening to a lot of nice words from you, a lot of directives, a lot of legal prescriptions, also the only thing I'm going to do at this point in time in this light is repeat the assembly stage of this biggest home, except for those copying laws in reality, nothing is solved because from Osijek to Sibenik from Vinkovci all day long with the train to travel, so we'd get on a bike faster. I don't know what the policies signed back then when the unanimity parliament entered to accept everything the EU ordered I don't know exactly, but the fact that we are in the EU is worse. You're talking about letting billions of investment into infrastructure, whether rail, or traffic, the fact that money is the most talked about, and there's no money. Which is why there isn't one you should explain because there's no investment in reality. We will start from my Split, from Dalmatia to Vinkovci, to the very border and see if it is investing. Whether Croatia in strategic cards is drawn and those directions or not are now a question of all questions, I do not want to talk about it but what my colleague Alexic said essentially hit the whole story. We can, I will repeat again another company with these companies that we have under the EU directive, ordered to open them. We can show our railway and infrastructure as a tourist museum attraction and try to brand another tourist's potential because it is not enough today, we should also show this because we simply cannot see such railway infrastructure as we can in Croatia in Western films. Well, in that direction, maybe we should go and build new stripes. The mouth is full of investments, projects, European funds and no money, where money is. Here I'm asking you where the money is, where's the money? Because ever since we joined the EU and before joining the EU, there's always been talk, always about money, about money, and where is the money, where is the investment? List here, I have heard all the people living in Slavonia that it is catastrophic, Međimurju, wherever I mentioned from Istria, to Zagreb cannot be reached, we have to cross 2 borders to get from Istria to Zagreb to the railway. It is the most economically profitable, it is the trigger, it is the cheapest but the fact that it does not invest in Croatia, that is the fact, this is the most common language I speak. I know, because I know what the situation in Dalmatia is, what the infrastructure is, so just look at what it is, the stations like the railways, the set, so the set of infrastructure is, and it hasn't been invested since we joined the EU is essentially a drop in quality. Every year for a few hours we are slower, slower is our transport of our passengers. And here we talk about security, copying EU directives, we can rewrite everything there. A little while ago, my colleague Shuker said that huge funds were invested in the railroad, he listed the shipbuilding, he listed agriculture as well. However, where we invested most in the percent, we destroyed it all. Now we come to a question of responsibility. Responsible, who's responsible? When he was in the government, Ivo Sanader, he's the only one responsible. Now that Todorovic was Zoran Milanovic, only Zoran Milanovic. When he was not sure who, it doesn't matter at all, Oreshkovic or anyone, so there's always only one person responsible, our Pedro, we hit Pedro, no one else is responsible and we move on to the same. And in this light of Parliament, under our pay phone, under this House, the highest house that should be true, credible, we tell the stories always the same. Investments, projects, billions of euros, but in reality there isn't. You need to invest a lot more, I know you have energy, you show will, but the fact is that what your colleague Alexic said is that the main resource and potential of Croatian railways is a man who was created in the Croatian Railways, who should progress, not by political likeness, but here, mostly by the inflow of people, he said administrations, people who don't know where the railroad is or what it looks like, how many tracks there are. Is there two, one or three? As for the delay, the responsibility of our trains, so look gentlemen, I mean in Japan, I wouldn't want to, for a minute delay, whoever runs the harakiri... In us he can be late all day, two days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one answers, it is Prime Minister Sanader's fault, when Sanader left then Kosorica, when there is no Kosorica Karamarko, now while Plenkovic Plenkovic is gone, then Plenkovic will be. So there's no responsibility for the system, let's let politics go. We have the biggest investment in railways, agriculture, shipbuilding, it's destroyed, the state invests the most. What are we talking about? We are passing laws that we can only prescribe, the EU directive, EU plans, the EU's strategic EU has demanded that we have railways, roads. If we function in this way, if we do not have a certain responsibility within the Croatian Railways, then the shipbuilding of the ministries has nothing to do with this, this is just copying the law that the EU has ordered us to prescribe. And we as proud come to hundreds of thousands of laws, a directive. And that could mean everyone here comes to the Parliament and rewrites those directives. And we, as we trust those directives when we rewrite them, will give us the EU. And there's an old one from my neighborhood that you can trust in and trust in your beaks. The horse he's like, he's all yours. You'll do as much with it as you can. What they will give us will be taken more and that in recent years is visible in relation to all the issues. Maybe it's a little funny that I'm saying this, but the fact is, the light of the camera, maybe we'd like to show ourselves here as pro-European, we have too much investment, too many projects. But the sad fact, dear secretary, respected, respected assistants, is that the most invested funds in the railways are financed, the former minister said Shuker, agriculture and shipbuilding. There is no responsibility, because Pedro is responsible, and Pedro is the one who's been doing a good job of bowing down, when they're dismembered, he's Pedro. Everything else becomes the past and the same people sit in this House. That's the basic problem. And that's the key problem. That's their policy, that's a new term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52879	There's a replica of the esteemed representative of the Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52880	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bulj, therefore we can agree on the conclusion that many things in the Croatian railways have not been good for years and have been explained for years to express ourselves in this way. You well said that the most important thing in every system is so on the railroad man, that's what my colleague Alexic said on the railroad there are a lot of earrings. I would not agree with that statement that there is an arrest, I think that any man who has come to the workplace just over some political relationship, if he performs the tasks he is assigned, that he is not guilty, let the man do. And when you say who's responsible, so the administrations are responsible, and actually maybe this question or message of yours, says let's get out of the way of politics, we can't get away from politics, the management is setting up a policy, and then they're responsible for the business of these companies. And when we land on the EU, we must say again, the EU gives frameworks and we are the ones who accept them or do not accept them. We can't say that the EU, we blame ourselves for everything we've done wrong, until now that we haven't prepared ourselves to be on that market. Of course, when you say that if trains can't be competitive, we can't go that way. But the most important topic you've opened is the property of the infrastructure, which is the station. In many places today, these buildings are empty, someone lives in them or doesn't live. I think the infrastructure should take more care of it if the ministry can influence it, even the people who lived there, paid the electricity, paid the gas, and didn't get the contracts. It's been stalling for years, I don't really know what kind of legal status it is, but at least it has to be done to get around that station then it's a pretentious word of the station, but around that building that at least it's cut, that it's neat. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52881	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52882	Well, he would agree basically, I listened to the whole debate today, the course of the debate, and my colleague Alexic basically said the basic problem. Some will say he was off topic, I think the basic problem is human potential. I wasn't talking about administrations, maybe key people, but we're talking about progress within what he was saying that people who have progressed within the lower levels that would come, probably by the Holy Spirit. This is described by counterpart Alexic as the largest form of clientelism and corruption and is the main brake because if the most funds are invested, the Croatian state in the subsidized railways, infrastructure or anything means that the fact that this money was not well used because there were obviously no human resources, potentials because these people who could have done it probably weren't in those positions or I don't know what other reason. But the fact is that here in this House, when it was pre-accession into the EU and entering the EU, it was said that it would be railways, fast trains, 300 kilometers, 400 per hour, that it would not be late for seconds, but it is the opposite, we prescribe directives and the situation is getting worse and worse and the services are getting worse and worse. And indeed, if we continue like this, we must brand it as a tourist brand to make it a museum-tourism attraction and to increase it further with a tourist offer. Otherwise, the lives on our railroads are at stake, they're dangerous, they're slow, they're better off traveling with a bike, and I expect that we'll get a clear answer to these questions. Here from Split to Zagreb, where investments are, which is why investments, I see at road crossings across the railways how signalling looks, everything is visible, I can take pictures and send it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52883	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After this precise debate by Mr Bulj, I can only add some of the facts that are relevant to this topic when we are talking, of course, about the Law on the Regulation of the Railway Market and the protection of passenger rights in rail transport. The key question is how we offer service to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, whether they are using it, not using it, whether it is investing, whether we are today compared to 25 years ago and in fact what the situation is and whether this law is going to change anything in the future. The fact is that I would like, for example, that in law and that would be an avant-garde approach to writing the law, for example, to write in the law that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are entitled to a service if the transport is more than 300 kilometers away, that the average speed is 100 kilometers, means that the service takes place in 3 hours. This would be, for example, an approach that would then be directed by the state and the railways to invest in such a way as connecting Split and Zagreb or Slavonia and Zagreb, and that we know that such a service will, for example, be offered in 3.4 years' time under these conditions and not that we have a situation where it is slower to come from Osijek to Zagreb than in '90. years when we didn't have our own country. And what is this message to people in Slavonia, we all swear and talk about that part of Croatian people moving out of that part of Croatia, that hundreds of thousands of people are leaving, so in the last year over a hundred thousand people have left Croatia, the most from that part of Croatia, but they are not investing in infrastructure, so today you travel from Osijek to Zagreb for almost four and a half hours, and 1990. You've traveled for three hours and 20 minutes. How is that possible, what kind of message is that? What does Croatia want with this infrastructure anyway? Whether he wants to develop his country evenly or we will only develop what he finds interesting and sometimes more difficult than good. For example, how much we invested in ports, bypasses around Zadar, etc., and, for example, build the railway from Gradec to Frog that we also heard today was a problem of year and year. And I hope that now finally with the European funds and the competition that started during the government of Mihanovic and the construction, it means that it will finally end in the next period. But tell me how it is possible for the Croatian state to decide to connect Slavonia to the centre of Croatia, the Croatian metropolis and other parts of Croatia. So we have a plain, it's not a problem to do, but nothing is done and today we're driving four and a half hours, within 270 kilometers of the track to Osijek. That's a bad message. And these are basically key problems that almost no one mentions here or is very rarely mentioned when these topics come up on the agenda. The average speed in Croatian railways is 44km. And it almost doesn't change. When we look at what others are doing and basically how useful it would be to say, two, three directions to ensure our citizens, one to Slavonia, one to Dalmatia, and possibly down to Rijeka and Istria, though that's the best railroad we have. But anyway, I'm saying it can be even better and we can ensure a quality transport, for example, like the French in France or the Benelux countries or, so I don't think I can compare China either, because that's not to be compared. The Chinese have built 20,000km of railways in the last few years, where the average speed is over 300km, and the highest speeds reach up to 400km. So imagine that we in Croatia make such a connection between Osijek and Zagreb and between Split and Zagreb. They'd be of no use. They'd be of great use. Not only do the people who come to Croatia, I think our residents would use the railroad much more. And today, everyone who's looking at us, I believe it's about the last time they even traveled by train. That's what I'm asking myself. And when I think about it, I can go back 15 years and more, because simply the service isn't attractive enough to people that it's useful. And until that changes, there'll be nothing. And to see that, you can see by the volume of railway employees, in the 1990s, 30,000 people are doing less, for example in Germany and France, not the case. There's more people working there than the '90s. You can see that by the number of trains, you can see that by the number of lines. It is evident that Croatia does not invest in its infrastructure particularly rail. Of course, when we compare investment in roads and railways, we see that investment in roads, when traffic is taken into account 80 percent and more and railways are less than 10%. So now to say in the end, of course I support this law, but I ask the state and it would be good if there were representatives of the ministry, State Secretary, Mrs Brnjak hears these messages and conveys unless she is currently hearing about communication with Mr Bačić, but then her co-workers will pass it on to Minister Butkovic that representatives and Croatian citizens, most importantly, are asking for more investment in railways. Yes, they are looking for something that would make sense to connect several directions in Croatia at more speed and that people get a faster service. What can certainly help, and I'm afraid that the HDZ government is continuing in that direction, especially when I'm following these last competitions, related to the Ciovski Bridge, and I'm afraid something tells me it's going to happen around the bridge towards Dubrovnik. That more expensive offers will be selected and that we will have a non-transparent again and that I do not now say and weigh what kind of procurement related to our infrastructure. So now we're going to follow closely at the Chiovo Bridge I have some information, that a more expensive offer has been accepted than those offered by our companies, by a company that has now been activated there. On the other hand, we will see how the competition for the Dubrovnik Bridge will pass, where we have offers that vary 300, 400 million kuna. And we will see if Croatia has the courage to choose the cheapest offer, or if there will be a variety of small interests that often end the way the FIMA media and the entire crime that we had about the construction of our roads. It's gonna be a test for the HDZ government, see if we've moved away from Sandal's time. When highways were built more expensive than they were supposed to. When we have overpaid billions of kunas, now, in a competition for the Peleski Bridge, we will see if those offers are chosen that are the most economically profitable, or 300, 400, 500, 700 million more expensive offers, which anyone knows which roads they most often find, most often these coins find their way to private pockets, and the problem is that they are all taxpayers' money and the state does not do it on its own behalf, but on behalf of all the citizens of the Republic. If we were saving on the roads, we could probably invest more, and I don't mean saving in a way that doesn't build a highway. Absolutely we built the highway but in that commercial way, not 4 times that the price increased in 2004 when HDZ took responsibility for Croatia. From that money to all four, five, six years, seven years of highway construction, we could probably build railways both to Split and Osijek, which our citizens would now be driving at an average speed of over 150 or 200km/h. Now if our people saw, had it not been for this crime of road construction in Croatia which is now being withdrawn by courts, the state of the railway in Croatia would have been much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52885	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Branimir Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, if you weren't a member of the Kukuriku Government, I wouldn't be replicating you here today. But I must remind you that you were a member of the Government who failed to launch the project of the construction of the second railway station Dugo Selo-križevci, located on the route of Osijek-Zagreb and where it will now be shortened once the second railway track is made to Koprivnica and the preparatory works are already in progress. You mention Osijek-Zagreb, you mention Zagreb-Split, you do not mention Zagreb-Rijeka. Let us remember what was here at the time of your government in the Parliament, what you did, how you changed the names of that railroad, did various eskimo and actually stopped the project. I mean, I really find it interesting to listen to people who until two years ago managed the Croatian state and decided on projects and were supposed to implement them, today they say the situation is bad. Yeah, the situation in the railroads is bad. I couldn't agree more with you. And I would absolutely support that, and I agree, if you weren't a participant, an active participant of it as a minister in the government, and it's really a little bit weird to hear this kind of debate today. We all need to be aware, each of our responsibilities, we all need to be aware of everything that is well done and what is not, and the fact is that you should have launched the project Long Village-Crissoms, that you did not run it, that you were incompetent and that only after you left that project was launched so something finally happens at the construction of the infrastructure in the railway.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52887	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52888	Thank you very much. Well, you know best that we've run a whole series of projects in your area of the Cross and around the Cross. In the end, it was certified and rewarded by the very Križevci and Križevčanka who won the SDP list in the parliamentary elections, in the Križevci, 42%. So on this side, people know best what anyone did and how he did for them, say, the fast road that you planned to be a highway for, so we changed it, so now people have a road that can be driven free of charge to the Križevci and practically connected to Zagreb in half an hour. On the other hand, people appreciate it, maybe it wasn't done fast enough, it could have been faster, but it was done. As for this railroad you were talking about, yes, there were some difficulties around the first competition, unfortunately, I don't know the details, you probably follow Milanovic's government, but I wasn't exactly in all the restaurants as Mr. Bacic thinks I am, but I haven't, I have a certain limit and time, and I can't say that I'm the most professional for all, so I wasn't the most familiar with what's going on in this matter, but I know it was a problem but that the problem was then solved, that this railroad was being built. To build and what is said today is the same from the government of Zoran Milanovic from Gradec towards Žabno, so these are projects that people see and honestly, in this area where you are, the most of these projects were launched during the Government of Zoran Milanovic, and I am convinced that people appreciate that, in the end, they rated it, I said in parliamentary, although slightly less in local elections since we obviously didn't hit there with the candidate, but again you saw that they didn't even welcome you with their thumb up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52889	Thank you very much. The next replica is distinguished MPs Bernarda Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52890	Thank you. Dear Mr. Maras, you mentioned you don't remember when people ride the train. I can tell you what they did to med school. Namely, we had the opportunity to see here on Tuesday a visit to Strahoninec Elementary School, or fourth grade. After returning and visiting Zagreb, returning to Čakovec, the children sat on the train and drove from Zagreb to Križevci train where the bus was waiting for them to take them to Međimurje. Namely, because of this situation which is in Međimurje, which is that we need to get to Zagreb for a long, long time and it is not worth it, many children have first sat down on the train and 'who knows when they will. The situation is well known that Mr. Mayor Posavec is fighting for a fast train, we hope they promised us another 2010 to work on modernising Međimurje, to get a fast train. Here I am, and this is when I appeal for it to be as soon as possible and not for our non-erable lines to be removed, and normally, because of the time of travel, they become inert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52891	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52892	Thank you very much. You've essentially replicated in this direction that I've been saying, so, unfortunately, people don't use and they don't have the kind of service that they should have. So I honestly don't remember when I was out of Croatia, for example in a country like, I don't know Belgium or Germany, people in intercity traffic exclusively use railways or Italy because it's incomparably faster, more easily, you come to the city center, and even for the distances we cross in Croatia. For example, Mrs. Putica, when she goes to Dubrovnik, she goes on a plane, instead of having a normal train connection, and she might have had us invest in that way, or let's say that we watched a way to connect the train Split and further to Dubrovnik, that's a distance from about 500, 600 kilometers that you pass without any problems outside of Croatia in three hours, two and a half to three hours. In Croatia we will have a feeling, most of the time we use and drive on highways, though, our citizens do not use it and on that side I said I do not remember when I am personally, and few people tell me to ride the train. It was an experience before, people were driving. There were a lot of passengers. The reason is very obvious. If he's in the '90s, here's Mr. Schucker remembers that, if we were driving, in the '90s faster than Zagreb, than Osijek, so what are we talking about here? What are we talking about? So on the other hand, on the other hand, here's the only thing I insist on is investing in the railways at last, that people start using railroads in daily transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52893	And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52894	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Maras, here's a lot of things you've listed where you should improve, so, supply traffic, speeds, etc. However, here I have to say again that Istria was not in your focus, we really don't have a practical railroad. We are not connected to rail traffic with the rest of Croatia at all. We have one tunnel, the Lučko tunnel which is road traffic, God forbid a bigger accident, because we have no way to get to Zagreb. We practically have to go down to Opatija, crawl down local roads, etc. etc. Traffic with the railroad is dead. We have direct contact with Slovenia, but we have no contact with the rest of Croatia. So, I believe that one big problem for Istria, for the economy of Istria and for the development of tourism traffic in Istria. We have a problem that a Bršica airport is there near Labin, that in the Raška channel, there is no direct railway link to Rijeka. So we have a lot of problems with this infrastructure and I believe that Istria definitely deserves to be taken into account, given everything it gives today in Croatia and in tourism and in the budget and all of this and here's the rest and please the Ministry and the Minister to take care of it, because I hold that our results would later see, through the budget, are much better than they are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52895	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52896	Thank you very much. I agree with you, and I think it's not just a question of course that we should primarily take care of our citizens and what you said about the country's connection, but now I think of something, given that you were the Minister of Tourism, let's say how many more people would visit Istria or Dalmatia, that Zagreb has this type's connection, that the train can be reached in an hour, an hour and a half to Istria, or in 2, 2 and a half hours to Split. In Zagreb, we have over 2 million overnight stays, the number of tourists has increased dramatically, and surely half of these tourists would visit if they were given a day or two. Because there are a lot of tourists who come from remote destinations like the United States or Korea, which either Japan or China are not oriented exclusively to the Adriatic, etc. And they come all year round. They come here from March to this day, when you pass here in the Upper City you will see groups and groups of tourists. And now if we had the infrastructure that I'm talking about right now, how many people would still want to spend 2 days more and see the Pula Arena or Diocletian Palace in Split and thus extend their stay in Croatia. So this, in my opinion, is one of the strategic interests of our country, that this situation, and I even think about the level of this, when the late Prime Minister Ivica Racan decided to create a strategic project of connecting the highways of the Republic of Croatia and to make it to Split highways. I think it's now, that at this point it's necessary to do something like that at railway level. Here's just my opinion, regardless of Mr. Shucker's direction, I hope he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52897	Just please, please, don't throw it out of the bench. Here it is, now we will give the word on behalf of the motionary to the Secretary of State, the esteemed Nikola Brnjak. Although, in fact, the whole discussion or a large part of the discussion was outside the Market Regulation Act, etc. What was to be discussed. But she'll try to say something on the subject, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52898	Thank you, Vice President. Dear comrades. I'd like to point out something, I didn't mean in this order, but I'd just like to point out this last replica that was related to the infrastructure and the state of the project. Well, that's exactly what I asked myself when I came to this place, to this duty. So I started looking at the papers, the state of the projects, the state of preparation, the phase of the project documentation, and what I saw was that in 2012. 5 projects, I can say that this total is about 10 million euros in project documentation, preparation, all stopped, because 60% of the Avan consultants paid. So these projects have stopped, and they're almost certainly going to be four, five, six years late. Speaking of infrastructure. So that's your question of what the state of the infrastructure is today. Another thing that's very important in the whole story, in order for you to withdraw money from the EU you're probably very well known for the story, you have to be in the strategy. This is what this government has done, it has put into strategy the entire low-level railway, meaning the development of integration between Rijeka and Zagreb, from Zagreb to Koprivnica, Koprivnica, the Hungarian border. She's got a line on her face, too. She's put the former 10 corridors on, so we could withdraw the funds, you have to be on those corridors. Now we'd like to explain more, so based on what you've been saying about the regulation directive. So four railway packages, it's what I said two parts. One was a technical part which was fully accepted by the European Parliament because it enables the interoperability of the entire railway area, enables locomotives and wagons to pass and connect several Member States uninterruptedly, enables those stop shop related to the European real agency, etc., a series of advantages and reduction of administrative barriers and costs for our carriers. As far as the market share is concerned, in that market part, exactly what we are saying today and Regulation 23 and 38 will enable what is being done here several times you have touched the concerns of what will happen to our national operator or HHPP. And also the claim that we are not at risk today in this whole situation is not correct, that it did not occur in principle. Yeah, suburban traffic is very interesting. The suburban traffic is interesting and it would certainly be found by someone who would answer and assume the role of our domestic national operator. However, it is with this regulation, which applies at the end of 2017, that the new regulation will extend the opening of the market until 2023, and after 2023 every ten years, the PSO contract that allows us to do what is good because the European Parliament did not accept the fourth package of decisions, means the directives that were then decided to allow the state to choose for itself every Member State to choose which way it wants to go, whether a direct contract with the PSO will be able to do so whether it will be a concession, whether it will be any other form. So that's how we've protected it, and I'm going to apply especially now this regulation by our national operator. That's why the regulation says that in markets where there are less than 23... miles that can be applied, and we're just on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About 15, so we can use that benefit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing has also been touched and it is also regulated in the regulation. What the European Parliament has not accepted, i.e. what is now possible under the new regulation is the vertical integration of railway companies. So, leading countries like Germany, France, Italy didn't go in that direction, so the separation of their societies, holding what was done with us, and that will allow us with a new amendment to the law in which we move to good luck next year, and in this way we will allow ourselves to re-introduce holding or some other form. But as part of this amendment to the law, of course, we will organise a discussion constructively on professional proposals and see which way it is quality to go. It means liberalising the market, yes, but under strictly controlled and fair conditions. As for the projects, it has also been mentioned several times to raise service standards, so we can boast that we have launched through the EU funds to get new 32 electric and diesel motor vehicles along with HZ PPP. So that's what we're running. We have launched a study of the modernisation of official places and views, meaning that the initial and final and analysis of the detection of all positions and the modernisation of all positions will be made. We're also, there were allegations of subsidies over 700. That's not true, 422 million kuna is about subsidies. As far as the railway line is concerned, the railway line is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. That is why it stands in the new Strategy for Development, Transport Development of the Republic of Croatia 2017, 2030. Also, like I said, it's a character stripe, among other things. As far as the freight carrier HZ CARGO is concerned, so HZ CARGO is unfortunately not restructured properly. Why isn't it the right way? Because it's not the goal of structuring how I'm looking at firing people, so they're fired and the company is in a much worse situation today than it was. Six of them are operatives. So what you're planning to see is what the goal is, what you want, what are the technological processes that are going to improve. It means as far as the railway operator is concerned and how HZ CARGO could survive and be competitive on the market. So what is crucial is that according to the amendment to the directive, it is unfortunately not going to work out again, but I have to say 23 70 next year, we are going to change the Law on Railways, and that way I say we can go again and see in which direction we will go with as far as these companies are concerned. There you go. Thank you. And the amendment of the Legislative Committee is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52899	Thank you very much. And on your show there are faiths or not a few replicas, so let's take it in a row. First distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52900	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here you have, at the beginning of your opening statement, pointed out how this law establishes a legal framework for the implementation of Regulation 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council. I would like to point out that this regulation devotes a whole chapter to persons with disabilities and this law in its infringements also determines the penalties which will be imposed on those who do not respect the implementation of this Regulation, as well as in the part relating to persons with disabilities. One important part of this Regulation concerns accessibility. I'm curious now, I know that building new station must be fully accessible new stations, that those that are reconstructed equally. However, I wonder if the inspectors will have some kind of education, whether they will be given the opportunity to see what it is like in our regulations. You know why I ask that? If that is not foreseen, then perhaps you can't answer me now and I'm not asking, but then I suggest that they really have some kind of education, given that even before this Regulation, the Republic of Croatia has already embarked on the adjustment of both wagons and platforms somewhere, etc. It hasn't been done yet, but there wasn't any control. Is this adjustment really what it's supposed to be? Is the ramp a certain percentage that we Here's just one more sentence, we in Croatia have a rule that determines what adjustment really must be. [[Intruder: Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52901	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed Nikolina Brnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52902	So that's all you've mentioned now, at all, is one of the tasks of the Study of Modernization of Official Places and Positions, a detailed analysis of such places.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52903	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52904	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs. Brnjak. Here's just two questions. The first particular question, namely, is that we have information that the HZ Cargo Administration is not appointed and what is said like this by the towers to express myself, that it does not seem because the PPD has its own interest there, that pressure is being put on so as not to have administration or to put in that administration their own man. And the other thing about that, I think my colleague Bulj said something about investing in the railroad, the stripes are divided by the line of international character, these are corridors 10, 5B and 5C and joint lines, lines of regional character, local character. What is the situation regarding funding from EU funds related to regional character lines and local character? Is it possible from EU funds to finance it or is it only possible for those railways that are listed as international railways? And that's one problem, I don't know when the Republic of Croatia was sending proposals... long ago but then it was done and all we're saying today was a major mistake that many, let's say, stripes of the R202 mark that goes from Koprivnica to the further that goes through the good part of Slavonia didn't get the meaning of the line of international character, these are key problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52905	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed Nikolina Brnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52906	As far as these tracks are concerned, I'm the only one who thinks we're going to have a chance to further expand them in 2023. What can be co-financed can only be the railways that are on the cor network on the... cor network and in principle we have already launched lobbying towards both the European Commission and... and made a presentation of all these railways which I have mentioned so far and enlargement means former i.e. pan-European 5B and 5C corridors to join the Mediterranean corridor. So these are basically of strategic importance of the railway for the Republic of Croatia, we have continued and the strategy is clearly written, and in this way we have already started lobbying to make these railways as an integral part of the core network that is when they become an integral part of the core network we can apply to certain co-financings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52907	And the last replica of the distinguished representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary, you spoke of the strategy as a prerequisite for building or modernising the railway, I am interested in what is the situation with the Zagreb-Varaždin-Cakovec railway where it is related to the strategy and what is the current route? Another appeal to you as Secretary of State, one nerd, is it possible that one ramp on the track between Varazdin and Ludbreg's marked crossing hasn't worked for several months? There's a question that perhaps your ministry should resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52909	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed Nikolina Brnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52910	That is why the ministry launched an action plan for the revision and analysis of the detailed all railway road crossings within this problem that occurred and after this analysis, we will again be able to see which railway road crossing will be possible through which funds whether from the EBRD, the World Bank, eu funds will be co-financed to restore railway road crossings. And as for this first question that you asked that rail has entered so it's also in the strategy and we are currently... /The speaker speaks unclearly./... study, means a study of justification, all the shops are launched and with the infrastructure manager... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52911	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on the first of the seven points that we're going to be doing today. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52912	Final proposal of the Law on the Regulation of the Railway Market and the protection of passenger rights in rail transport, second reading, P.Z.E., No 153. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, during the debate, by the representatives of the proposings, to the amendment of the Committee. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the regulation of the rail market and the protection of passenger rights in rail transport, please vote. I find that most votes, 104 for and 12 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the regulation of the rail market and protection of passenger rights in rail transport, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52913	We go to another point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act for Human Consumption, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 155. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an added explanation? Yes, Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52914	... This Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Act on Human Consumption of the Republic of Croatia ensures compliance with Directive 1787 of 2015 that Member States are obliged to monitor national monitoring of water health law for human consumption based on a risk assessment. [[Specially enabled.]] In accordance with the above, the obligations of legal persons carrying out public water supply activities relating to the establishment of a risk management system instead of the current self-control system for human consumption based on a risk analysis system and card control points are extended. Application by the Ministry of Health for approval of water safety plans for human consumption, registration for registration in the register of legal persons carrying out a register of public water supply activities conducted by the Ministry of Health and the obligation to publish updated data and inform the public of the health of water for human consumption. With regard to the difference between the solution proposed by the final bill proposal and the solutions set out in the Bill's proposal and which led to these differences, we have one remark that we have accepted, meaning the difference between, respecting the proposal of Representative Slaven Dobrovic in Article 6. One representative of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection has been added to the final draft law within the expert risk assessment committee for the human consumption monitoring programme. Also at the meeting of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, an application was made to the very name of the law by which the name of water for human consumption should be changed to the name of drinking water, this remark was not accepted. In view of the fact that the adoption of the remark would significantly narrow down the scope and scope of the law which would then not comply with the scope and scope of Council Directive 1898 of '83. on the quality of water intended for human consumption with all changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52915	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the first time will be shared by respected MPs Tomislav Panenić and Slaven Dobrović. Here you go. He's a colleague of Panenić's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52916	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State, I mean, I wanted to show you this little bit thematic, so when you take this water, this is at one point taken from the plumbing, so when it was in the Comletins, but I was actually going to say that this might look this bad, but it's not the problem with what we see, the problem is what we can't see. In fact, this is where we start from the very reports that the Ministry of Health, the inspection, which was carried out by the Croatian Institute of Public Health,... I guess she, she even started to eat the plastics off of this water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most of the key problems that we are, which I have pointed to and that originates in my area, are water pollution that has nothing to do with human activity at all, but simply with the layer from which it comes. And that would be something that's acceptable because we can't change something that's been going on for years. I'd just like to clarify the course of events that was related to an affair that was media presence around arsenics in the water, places of the Comletini. It might not even be known that one entrepreneur did not need a water analysis for his business. So when they claimed that there were illicit arsenic concentrations, there was no authorisation then a whole series of procedures were launched and it was found that in 2016, an analysis was made, that this analysis showed that this water was not for human consumption, that its distribution was banned for that purpose but it is a crime that the local distributor did not inform the population of that fact. So a year has practically passed since the moment it was established. So I'm not talking about any of them being able to change the reality that this water was getting better because it required big investment, planning, but the public had to be informed. And especially at the time when it was found that this water was no longer suitable for human consumption. By going a little deeper into the reports, we can determine here that the obligation stands for regional self-government to finance both regular and audit monitoring. A regular who is the basic one, the one that is very detailed, which includes most of these heavy metals, including arsenic. And then we come to the report of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, clear indicators that certain counties, in the area of certain counties, have not done management of such, exactly like this, monitoring. Like what? The Vukovar-Srijem County did not provide the funds listed in the reports, not for the county but for, as a key problem. But, for example, in Vukovar-Srijem County of 248 regular monitorings that were planned and 55 audits, a total of 303 were made only 53 regular. So none of the only audits, because that audit would actually show the presence of arsenic. And then it turns out that 34% of the public plumbing samples are broken. 18 were these invalids which were found, so from that small sample of 54 was carried out only, out of 53 actually achieved samples was only 18, 18 were invalid, 6 had received a temporary solution and 12 had not received a solution at all to distribute that water. Okay, looking at this data that's listed tabularly. I thank the institutions that have done this, should read them. In fact, this results in the actions and efforts that Croatia's water and all institutions need to take to deal with situations where there is such a problem. When we get to the local water supply, that means the one that hasn't been stopped, then we see that the data there is even more devastating. These are small, before the rural waterways that have lower opportunities actually and investments, there extends the procedures of incorrect samples. Here's one piece of data in Požega-Slavonska up to 88%. If we're talking about water as something that's for human consumption, then we can see what the problem is. And arsenic, he went public, he appeared as something that arsenic as an element that is unacceptable, which we know as very dangerous and around him agreed the whole story, but looking at the results of the research itself, we see that arsenic is one of the more common causes, but there are many other causes of pollution. Although I must say when you look at the overall situation in Croatia, it is relatively solid. So we have the exact places where problems happen. In which responsibility should be borne by just those who are vertically connected. The local water suppliers, who know the situation, know the state of Croatian waters that should seek priority solutions in these areas. Countys that should finance this monitoring and publicly publish exactly that kind of data. Because in the end, it turns out that you can't even get to that monitor. So he's not publicly available, and it's about public interest. And what actually surprised me most in some way, that there are infractions that are neither small nor large, but he didn't treat anyone. And then we actually get into a situation where all those who have done their job, their efforts aren't being valued in a sleeping manner. And then if some inspection has determined the percentage or share of arsenic, iron, anaemia, phosphate, certain other pollutants in the water, they can only observe, that nothing happens. Is that not demotive? I hope that with these amendments that it is harmonising and one part with the EU, not only will we improve the system, but also that unfortunately, we will carry out the repressive part properly and that is the responsibility of your ministry in which I expect there to be significant progress. So he realizes that it can't change quickly, but also that with the maximum effort he can get to a state where he'll say that the waterway, I don't know, is the regional water line of Eastern Slavonia, is a priority. We need to finish it, we need to finish the shooting between the Vinkow water line and the Ship's water line. Who's gonna manage that? What's the problem if it's 50, 50? I don't see the problem. It looks like it's just an ego. And such situations need to be clearly resolved so that there is no situation. I'm saying, around this water, I don't think it turns out to be something we don't consume, and this and I can drink so. It's not as bad as the bad thing we're doing here and we don't have results. Because people want this to happen. Thank you very much, colleague Dobrovic, continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52917	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52918	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear representatives of lawmakers, colleagues and colleagues, here I am going to continue. Let's go right now. I thank you for your goodwill and for changing the composition of the expert commission. And now here it stands, 3 from the Ministry of Health and 1 from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, one from the Croatian Institute of Public Health, one from the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, one from the Croatian Waters. Here, we still don't have anyone here, so, from the law enforcement sector, which is the whole law. So the water lines, i.e. the legal entities that manage distribution systems, are not represented here at all. I don't think it's intended to rule them out, but the goal is to provide a law that will solve this problem for it to be functional, so that there is no threat of functionality. Because I'm going to repeat this is an interdisciplinary area. It is very nice that it is covered in a more quality way in the area of the station, i.e. the land area, to access it more complexly. However, there is a procedure there. There is a process of water or conditioning, as you call it, a pump station, distribution and a large network of distribution there are naturally pipes, pumps, there are important parameters of systems such as pressures and flows. There are corrosive processes, there are age water in the system, especially related to very different consumption profiles, not only daily or weekly but also seasonal. So, they all know very well how to guide you. We are a country where the water supply organizations have been in existence for quite a long time and should be proud of it. And they're quite well organized, I'd say excellent. So there's a group of water lines, like an organized form, where it's very easy and nice to work with them and reach consensus in some issues is quite clear that 5 people who have a health profile can't know that. It is therefore necessary to include them in any debate on this matter. So I think it's definitely necessary to have at least one member of that profile. Because there's no need for three people from the Ministry of Health, I don't know why, because managing a complex interdisciplinary area doesn't mean usurping the possibility of debate. I'm sure it's in your best interests to function in the constitution, that the goals you set in the law to meet them. So they'll get better if there's no communication problem. I don't know if they've discussed the provisions of the law with that profile of people. I'm going to get a specific article now. So it's a former article 15 or now Article 9. where it is stated that a legal person must secure a whole series of things. And of course, they all stand well, but there is one item that is at the request of the food business operator, to provide the results of the analysis carried out in the water for human consumption delivered to them. So now this is completely unclear to the sector I'm talking about, so I got information from them that it's really not clear how and how this is going to be done or what this is about. If the water is located in the inner net, therefore behind the number, or in the user, or if it is in the water network, then at the delivery site in the case of the measure itself. The question of how to ensure which control, whether their control, internally, through their internal laboratories, should know that they are not authorized to work towards third parties, therefore, but for their own insight into the quality of the water they deliver because they are responsible for that water quality, must know what is happening and then have to react because the water supply system is one living system. So there are parameters that oscillate, especially seasonally highly oscillate consumption, so all of this has an impact on many conditions on many conditions within the water supply network, and they are very well-known. Of course there are here in this report that my colleague Panenic was talking about, there is information that there is a big problem with small water lines where simply because of the lack of people is generally the quality of water weaker. These problems, of course, need to be trained, this is a particular rounding important, but it is certainly a very important achievement for every legal person involved in this business to achieve an orderly service, or that the quality of the water they deliver in view of the input water, or raw materials they have, which they handle, which they care about, will satisfy or be correct for consumers. So I believe that there's still some effort to work things out, to definitely explain it because it's not good that later on we're having difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52919	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on Mr Panenic and two on Dobrovic. We go in turn, first to the presentation of MP Panenic, the distinguished representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kolega Panenić, we also discussed on the board this problem where the counties and cities must provide counties and the city of Zagreb must provide financial resources for the implementation of regular and audit monitoring. And that's okay. And that's what the law provides, and we also discovered yesterday that it was also in the old law that sanctions were provided for if it wasn't done. But I'm with you as much as I can about not doing it and having to do it. We know that monitoring control works for public health institutions that are county and that control is done by sanitary inspectors who are under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. In that part, for sure, it shouldn't happen if we even distribute this kind of water. This water that you have now tasted for drink and is not the biggest problem if it's just a mutation, if it's other parameters that we've seen that are many times incorrect, then it's a much bigger problem and such water is distributed and then those responsible for that water distributors are not sanctioned. I'm also in favour with you, and that's what the Ministry of Health says, that we should be as rigorous as possible because this is certainly not acceptable. I'm saying again, the machete itself isn't a problem but many times we have especially because of those... Because of the low water consumption in certain parts of the pipe where they have to be washed more frequently, we have many times healthy hygiene incorrect water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52921	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52922	Thank you very much. My colleague Križanić, on this subject, here we really had a thematic session and there was talk about it and there was a lot of talk with me. What exactly is there here? We have a case here that the state institutions that are key to it have also done their job. So, not to have someone constantly calling up, you didn't, so you did, you did, you did some of the analysis that they could, they found, they made solutions, they made reports. Those reports need to be read by someone who does so at a certain level. And then of course it becomes a problem when it goes to cover it up. So it's not even political responsibility, it's a responsibility to people who consume such water. That's where we come in. That's one case that destroys the entire system. It is later called towards the ministries, according to Croatian waters, according to whom, and when we look at these reports, then we can detect exactly where the problem arises and which are actually the people who manage these systems that cause the problem. And treating them is actually solving a key problem because I can show satisfaction with the procedures of proper samples all set up, but I can't say that it's right that two, three counties have a systematic problem with it. And they don't want to talk about it in public. Because political responsibility is and to fight for your end and tell me we have this problem that comes from some natural, geological patterns and we want to change it, there's a solution, give us support, and we need to talk about it daily, and that's how you get support and the people you're actually representing politically and professionally in the end. And then there's this key, quick link because we've become aware, when we're being pressured here by someone around a problem, and we're becoming more sensitive, and that's why it's important about water as a resource that's said to be really at the top of the EU, to protect it, and to keep the situation as long as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52923	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52924	In this report, counterpart Panenić is visible and you pointed to problems in your presentation, and now you have finally said that water is the main resource and that many more than a billion people do not have the opportunity to reach drinking water at all. The fact that we have built up in the waterway networks, but the fact that many of our settlements and places are moving out and that... what Slaven was saying is that there aren't enough inhabitants and that's a particular problem, the water stays in the pipes for a long time and so on. However, the fact that this main resource is Croatia is poorly protected. Perhaps the law says that the water is protected well, but we are only here as far as TE Peru is concerned I will always talk about Cetina is that the largest pool of drinking water of Peru in this part of Europe. In order to preserve this resource and protect this resource in order to comply with all the legal provisions and you said inspections do their job, the services are doing their job but the main problem is to preserve this resource where they do not prejudge the interest groups that are directly connected to the Government and you remember here the reaction of the Deputy Minister i.e. First Deputy Prime Minister and directly owner of a project that is harmful, the husband of the Deputy Prime Minister. And now we're fighting to preserve that drinking pool and that we could at all realize this opportunity to keep and make money on that water, we're not actually keeping that strategically important resource with food and air, the environment. Water for sustainable development. So that's where the top of the state is deep involved and they don't choose. Their interests don't choose water...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52925	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52926	Comrade Bulj, we have deep layers of water being drained mainly for shell consumption. These layers that are 20, 30 meters away already have contaminants from our operation, and what is most easily visible is on the outer water streams and water tanks. Here's what you've been tracking, there's a drying-out, and there's really water becoming a resource for it. Is it really important that this is the way Te is created on the Perun lake itself? We can always wonder if there are no other locations in Croatia that would be acceptable and someone wants it, but it has to happen at the site of this could be pollution of the source that you are air-protecting. What's it gonna be? I see there's going to be a fight you're fighting against people who are now trying to impose it as a good solution. But I will say only one thing, that the economic interest of certain groups is so strong that sometimes this fight of ours turns out to be in vain. I hope we get as much support as we can. We're not against any investment, it's not that, and we're aware that even the power generated by the hydropower plant is on some water supply, that there are TEs on both gas and other fuels and we're using the nuclear energy that's coming in, but we still have to look at that threat as little as possible. If there is an alternative let's do about this alternative, but trust me, these alternative solutions don't always bring income on invested assets like the one that always gets out as the best, but they don't look at the general impact. And it may be some kind of solution that comes about environmental impact and positive, but we're always aware of a single hoarse that can do, and that's very difficult to predict the volume in which it can endanger our environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52927	Thank you. I would ask everything again, the past point has passed in one ton in which more has been said than the law itself, please do not let this point pass in this same tone. I'm asking you nicely to concentrate on water for human consumption because that's what the law is talking about. Replication of the esteemed representative Dobrović, is the first respected representative of Mark Sladoljev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Dobrovic. You spoke, in fact, of course, of your dissatisfaction with the composition of this committee, and you pointed out that the problem is very complex and the question is how technically this commission will be able to do its job, given that there are no people in the water line, and the question is very complex and requires such people in the commission. I don't know, it seems to me like you'd compare who set up a doping commission and then there are no pharmaceuticals in the doping committee that are very important to the subject. So again, I repeat the question how technically will the commission be able to achieve its purpose, given that it is so teamed up?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52929	Dear Representative Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52930	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of Sladolev's. Yeah, I've shown a fearsome namely interdisciplinary areas must be represented with all professions, it's an necessity if you want to get rid of it. Clearly, not only can representatives of one profession be solved, so something about more waist. So here we have three medics from the Ministry of Health, one from the Croatian Institute of Public Health, one from the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, five, okay, if there should be five, but with the Ministry of Environmental Protection that should be cared for by plums and Croatian water that also have a function closer to the capacities and plums themselves, and less technical testing definitely lacks technical expertise, so the profession of those who really carry this law because I repeat, is about water for human consumption which is distributed to complex distribution systems, which are managed by legal persons, where, of course, technicians of various professions have a lot to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52931	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52932	Thank you, Vice President. My question is about drinking water, and I'm giving it to my colleague Dobrovic. Since counterpart Dobrovic was former environmental minister, he is well aware of the regional waste disposal site of Piškornica in Koprivnička Ivanac, and since the dump site is located near Koprivnica water supply, so I ask you, if the water catchment area, which is nearby and dump and take samples, is being taken, do you think they are relevant and whether they may not be, yet we know what the impact of the lobby is on garbage transportation and what is the impact of the lobby itself. Do you think that the causes are relevant and how much of your attitude about this dump damages the water supply site located near the garbage dump Piškornica?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52933	The reply of the distinguished representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52934	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague is absolutely correct that the objects of this type have an impact. There are technical measures to protect them, that is,... The layers, the side, and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] layers, stations and technical measures of quality handling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, all of this together is to prevent and reduce harmful influence. But it definitely exists, because when big rains fall on the working surface, which can be big without day cover, then you're doing it in various ways, you simply know there's so-called. Topping pods. Thus, it simply cannot be prevented and the best way to prevent anything from being handled properly. Let's not do pigs and mess where that's not necessary. Especially if you approach it in a way that favours special particular interests, then it's a team before the alarm bell for all of us whose public interest is first. So I also know, that, respectively, reporting monitoring obligations, often the same can be done in one way, in the other and in the third way. In general, there is a time and place when an operator chooses to achieve better quality results. And then with those results wave, like here, no influence. But the impact has, it's only a question of how high-quality a real picture is presented. Pointly caused in place and time, it really doesn't have to match what it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52935	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Ljubica Maksimchuk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52936	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of the promoters, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to remind you that only with the proposal for this law in our first reading was we discussed in this Visa House on 11 July of this year, and it was clear that the first reading contained a statement of compliance of the proposal with the EU acquis, resulting in the full compliance of this law with the provisions of EU primary and secondary law. What is visible from this law is that, as it says in this proposal, the requirements for monitoring, water health law for human consumption are extended by introducing a risk assessment. The obligations of legal persons carrying out the public water supply activity are extended. Since the law also states the difference between the solution proposed by this law, compared to the decision in the first reading bill, concerns the composition of the expert risk assessment committee in the water monitoring programme for human consumption. A representative of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection has been added, in the composition of the expert risk assessment committee, in the water monitoring programme, for human consumption. We see that it defines the establishment of an expert committee to approve water safety plans for human consumption and risk assessment in the water monitoring programme for human consumption, as well as the definition of the jobs it conducts. This law also complements provisions relating to official laboratories which are required to authorise the possession of validation reports and measurement uncertainty for methods other than accreditation. The rules for legal persons carrying out the activities of filling water in bottles and other packaging have also been defined. What is evident is that this proposed law allows the flexible adaptation of domestic legislation, EU legislation, ensuring the timely value and application of the EU Commission Directive 2015/1787 of 6.10.2015. As I have said in my first reading, the importance of this law should not be particularly highlighted, given that it is water intended for human consumption, and therefore all water that is in its original state or after processing is intended for drinking, cooking, use of food or other household needs independently of its origin, and whether it originates from a public water supply system, tanks, bottles, or water containers, and any water used in the food industries for the production, processing, preservation or placing on the market of products or substances intended for human consumption, unless the competent authority determines that the quality of water cannot affect the health correctness of food in its final form. The obligations of Croatian waters, which are mandatory to the expert commission to approve water safety plans for human consumption and risk assessment, are extended to provide data on the results of monitoring, surface and groundwater status for the purpose of approval of plans, water safety for human consumption and risk assessment in the programme of water health monitoring for human consumption. Drinking water becomes a major resource in the 21st century due to the growth of people on earth, as well as the increased needs of living standards. Our country has quality water, and certainly the wealth to be guarded. Therefore, these measures are commendable to the ministry. What we expect is that this law of control will lead to drinking or human consumption significantly ensuring a better quality, more correct for our citizens than it has ever been before, and where increased amounts of any harmful, or unnecessary substances are found to react in time and protect our population from the use of such water. Following all of this, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the final proposal of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52937	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Sinisha Varga will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52938	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a fellow State Secretary from the Ministry of Health with colleagues. Here today we have a second reading of the amendments and addition of the Water Act for human consumption. Like my colleague said all the details about the law itself, I'm not going to do much detail about it. I would just like to point out that this is a big step actually in harmonising the legislation in the Republic of Croatia on the safety of drinking water, that is, for human consumption that we use daily as a normal life. It should be noted that while, for example, the Republic of Slovenia has voted that water is a human right in the Republic of Slovenia at the same time in Croatia, we need to comply with EU directives and raise our water control level to a European level which I absolutely welcome. However, so far the work in this area has been deficient and I believe that the application of this Directive and everything related to its application in the Republic of Croatia must be followed very well and require that implementation be carried out at a very high level. In fact, we know that we also have problems in Eastern Slavonia with too high levels and arsenic concentrations in drinking water. These permitted concentrations should be reduced. We have insufficient responsiveness of expert services on the subject of objections, when it is noted that the quality of water is below the required level that it is not sufficiently and not fast enough to inform the public itself and that intervention would occur as soon as possible and that people would stop using that water temporarily or permanently. And it is also required that all data related to the safety of drinking water both in the register itself and in the manner in which it is conducted are required to be absolute public data so that people can react as much as possible and as quickly as possible to protect their own health. Also in our work so far, we had a monitoring plan on water health, led by the Ministry of Health, on a proposal from the Croatian Institute for Public Health. However, according to the data available, we see that the very low percentage achieved by the monitoring plan is also needed to apply this directive in order not only to raise the level of monitoring but also to make this proactive approach in the design of the plan and risk assessment for the entire water supply area in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law and I believe this is a benefit for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52939	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next club of representatives is the club GLAS of HSU on behalf of which the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government. I will talk about this topic from the perspective of an interested citizen because as well as 99% of the people in this country I am a very interested citizen on this subject, but I am not an expert on this topic. Therefore, I ask you to understand everything I will say as neither support nor criticism, but as questions to which I ask you to answer, or to explain exactly what this is about. So it is clear that the intensity of this directive and our obligation to transpose it into Croatian legislation is higher standards in water cleanness and in the protection and control of the quality of water that we all drink. And it's an honor to respect fellow Panenic, but I'd rather not have to drink that kind of water. And I guess most people would rather not drink that kind of water no matter what, of course, respecting the fact that there are contaminants that can't be seen, which are sometimes much more harmful to health and more dangerous than those that are seen. But I think that it is the interest of everyone and the interest of this whole project and of this directive and its transposition into Croatian legislation, that such as to say compromises or assessment of risks related to our own health, we simply do not have to work. So the transposition of the directive is of course not only an obligation but also an interest, but as we always know in these directives, the question is whether the way it is transposed into Croatian legislation is in fact achieving the goal that is intended to be achieved. So is this how this directive is transposed into Croatian legislation, in fact, achieves better control of drinking water. My first question, therefore, is to establish an additional commission that will establish and define standards and methods of control of compliance with these standards. What about the Department of Public Health? What about the instruments that exist inside Croatian waters? So is this commission an improvement and why is it an improvement compared to what could and should be done or should be done by the Public Health Institute and should be doing Croatian Waters themselves? At first glance, I say as an interested citizen, it seems to me to be an additional bureaucracy that defacto already has its own versions in the existing system that may not work very well. But isn't it perhaps better to fix and improve the functioning of the institutions we already have because we have little and otherwise that trend when something doesn't work let's set up an additional commission, let's set up an additional institution instead of repairing the functioning of the institutions that are already working. I am particularly suspicious of that, or let's say it challenges this question that I am asking you, so why not improve the functioning of the institutions that we already have because the implementation is scheduled until 2023. Now, what do we do in these six years? So in these six years, someone else is going to control it or in some other way you're going to do it. So I ask the answer to that question, what is it really about? The third question I would ask you is that these amendments and amendments to the law determine that the minister will subsequently define the standards. When it comes to the water lines of colleagues who know much more about it professionally than I do, they have already said what the problem is, the difference between large and small water lines. But we can tell when it comes to plumbing, I don't see any particular problem. However, water is business and business, and this is also said. So different people and it's a very lucrative business, different people do stuffing, they have drinking water chargers. We have seen in the case of Agrokor in which the concession was not only broken but millions of people are more drained than it was rightly obtained by concession. But my question is also this, if the Minister sets out by regulation, so any person, any individual, by regulation, determines the standards and the way in which these standards are controlled and the application of those standards opens up the area of arbitration. I said in the plumbing it's a minor problem, in the charge room, in my opinion it's potentially bigger, depending on what standards, some sources, some chargers can dramatically profit from their competition, maybe you have a rational answer to that. So please, therefore, I do not claim it decedified but I ask you then to answer that question, but whenever some standards are defined, when one person is in a position to regulate it by a regulation and these are not predetermined standards and are founded by professional and scientific bodies and in this way apriors are defined, it always opens up in every area of arbitration space and the area of arbitration in the state regulation is always a potential area of corruption. And that's why I don't think it's important to answer that question. Depending on how you answer these questions our club will in case, that on all these questions you have rational answers we will support this law and if we do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52941	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52942	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Water for Human Consumption Act because we believe that not only is our obligation to comply with EU directives but this and similar laws contribute to security in supplying quality drinking water, health proper water to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is our legal obligation, but here, it would be good that this is a basic human right, a right to drinking water and we have given ourselves the task of making it possible for 80% of citizens to connect to the public water supply network by 2020. And this relatively goes in the right direction thanks to international funds, the activities of units of local and regional self-government with of course great help from Croatian Waters. However, where do problems arise? They create a problem right to protect these water supply sites and maintain an existing water supply network. And that's why we have a lot of water supply problems in the quality of drinking water. The problem of drinking water in the vicinity of the island, Privlaka, Komletins has already been mentioned here, where large quantities of arsenic and other heavy metals have been identified and what concerns us from HSS and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as the system may have failed. First of all, when defining the priorities of the construction of the water supply network, why this was not a priority and that part of Vukovar-Srijem County, to join the eastern regional water pipeline of Sikirevci, which is a healthy water, where there was no need for any technical processing of that water, but they went from the local water line even though it was known for years that there was a problem of arsenic and other heavy metals. And it was only when the citizens rebelled, when the public launched this initiative through the media. The second question, as well as this law, is defined that a public water supplier must establish a risk and crisis management system instead of the current system of self-control of water health law, whether it was, obviously if it was, that the second, that Croatian waters are obliged to provide information to the expert commission on the results of monitoring the state of surface and underground waters in order to approve the water safety plans for human consumption. Did Croatian waters have that obligation so far, if so, what did they do? Did they inform the delivery company, which is the Vinkovci water line, that there is this problem and they are looking for a solution along with them? Perhaps they are, but here are the citizens who are dissatisfied that this has not been resolved today and what and when it is established, there has been no punishment for responsible persons. The water supply of these citizens was subsequently resolved, and now there is a promise that it will be the priority projects of connecting this local water pipeline to the regional water line. A similar problem is also in the town of Slavonski Brod where more than 40% of water is lost in the network from the station to the end-user and where there is potentially a risk of water pollution. In Novi Gradiška it is even harder, over 50% is lost in the network, and the accumulation from which the town of Nova Gradiška was supplied with drinking water, Bacica is out of service even though it is put into the priorities of Croatian waters, until today it is not finished, it is not known when it will be finished, water storage is not finished, no water finishing device has been completed. It is also up to citizens whether we are citizens of the second order, or whether we should have enough water in some other parts of Croatia and health-regular waters. Also mentioned is the problem of defining the zone of sanitary protection, the construction of water treatment or sewerage, the water purifier. Here we are, here we are far from those set goals and there is a big problem here and in Piškornica which is near the source and dump site of waste, it is similar in Brod-Posavina County, Davor Municipality where not three kilometers from the waste dump is a waterhole from which 60 thousand inhabitants of drinking water should be supplied and exactly what Mr. Dobrić said, there is a real danger that due to climate change, due to the high rainfalls in a short period of time, waste water spills into the area where drinking water is affected and pollution occurs. Whoever's been doing the risk assessments and whether they've been properly done and needed to do it again, I think and the citizens are afraid that these water supply sites are going to be polluted too, and that shouldn't be our goal. This law also stipulates that the Minister of the Regulation determines the monitoring plan and that this is the obligation of the regional self-government through the Public Health Office in each county, and that we have had at that thematic session of the debate in this section where I asked for it to be installed then and the obligation of the Minister to agree the plan with the counties and the Institute of Public Health. We cannot always lower our obligations to local and regional self-government units without providing financial resources for the same because here at the end of the law, it says that no additional funding should be provided for the implementation of this law. Why is that? Why lower constant liabilities and not secure finance? There were even proposals to give the amendment, to further punish the mayors as the leaders of regional self-government unless a monitoring plan was implemented. So he wants the mayor to implement, he wants the Public Health Institute, but he will plan to put as many kunas as it would take in Brod-Posavina County to monitor if the budget is not charged or if council members in the county assembly say no, a million kunas for that, but millions for unclassified roads and so the assembly makes a decision, so the mayor can manage that way. I think it is necessary to resolve a little more quality and agree between competent ministries, regional self-government and the Public Health Institute and a better solution. Here I appeal to both ministries, responsible for this, Croatia's waters to urgently solve the problem in Vukovar-Srijem County, to finally solve the water supply problem in Sikirevci which today has not been solved, although it was agreed to establish a joint venture between both the county and both water suppliers, gave up. At present, it is still being conducted as a test production which is inadmissible and the question of whether it is being quality analyzed and carried out by the number of monitorings that should be given to citizens medically correct water, which is ultimately our goal both through this law and through other measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52943	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52944	Thank you very much. In the final part of my debate, you have therefore already responded to my line, but I have noticed that by reading this law. So in your debate, you brought out a whole series of things that should be done that absolutely all sound like they cost money. And at the end of this proposal, the law says that no additional funding will be needed to implement this law, and that seemed to me, and from a completely lay position quite unrealistic. Well, maybe if you could comment a little further and then, of course, the government's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52945	Here's a response from the esteemed representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52946	Yes, thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Pusic, so of course I pointed out this particular problem that in most laws the legislator of the law would have to pass more easily and agree with the law with other state bodies says they do not need additional financial resources but these are mistakes that should not be repeated and I think there are arguments through this and through other laws that the legislator of the law will explain to the competent minister of the current state body which he proposes but also the Minister of Finance and other restoring ministries that for the implementation of these laws we will need financial resources because only the law and paper that will stand in the drawer and will ultimately not be enforceable. Because if we leave this obligation to remain a unit of regional self-government and do not have sufficient own sources of income, I am afraid that this monitorig through the Public Health Office will not be carried out in the extent that we should be able to protect a citizen as a consumer of drinking water and I believe that this will continue to be debated and that this system and financial assistance will be provided by the Ministry of Health itself because if a measure is ordered, then the funds should also be provided for it. I also forgot to mention that since last year, the same ordered measure is being taken to control water on radionuclides, radioactive substances in water. Since 2016, it has started to run, and we still have no results as it is only a year away. It is also a reduced obligation on units of regional self-government and the Institute of Public Health without providing financial resources. In this way, we will bring to a situation of regional self-government that not those other obligations they are required to implement but will have to have all the separations for these measures without talking about how the system needs to be further upgraded in terms of the construction of the water supply network, the recovery of damage on old networks, the construction of sewers, the purification of water, it is not the portfolio of this ministry, but the appeal to be made as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52947	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52948	Dear counterparts Vlaovic and you and I know that the issue of water supply for the entire eastern part of Slavonia would be resolved when it was released, meaning the water supply site of the regional water supply in our county. One part of this water supply is being supplied by the people of Vukovar-Srijem County, which is in our area, I welcome that it has already started with water supply in Vukovar-Srijem County, but I regret that it has not yet started to power drinking water, i.e. using our county. And just to point out in May, in March and May of this year, two wells were made and means more in the Comletins and in the island of 26.09. the notice was made that the water was correct for drinking and the tanks were withdrawn, so the citizens were finally in the Comletins and in the area of the island drinking water. And here I am appealing to the water lines, i.e. 4 are, there are 4 companies, it is the water line Slavonski broj, water and sewerage Vinkovci, Komunalac County and Drenovci to solve these property legal relations as soon as possible, i.e. to start with the power supply and use of drinking water from Sikirevac and our county.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52949	Thank you. Here, it's hard to say the answer but something will say by the esteemed representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52950	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Maximčuk and you and I agree that citizens and our counties and all counties in Croatia must have the availability of drinking water. At this point, citizens of the Posavian County, as you said, do not all still have the possibility of connecting to drinking water, which must not happen when we are lying there at drinking water sources. And secondly, for formal legal reasons, the inactivity of the Croatian Ministry of Waters and two water suppliers has not been resolved by the legal status of the Sikirevci station, which is for each conviction. And especially not being solved by the end of the date on the town of Slavonski Brod because in some months of the year, citizens of Slavonski Brod do not have enough quantities of drinking water and when it joins, it will be resolved and it is certain that we are helping all of our citizens in this way. I'm also glad that the citizens of the island... Attractions now drink the drinking water but regrettably that it had to react through the media with a public conviction to bring about this temporary realization. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I want them to be connected to the regional water line as soon as possible and finally solve this problem. And when it comes to delivering drinking water, which is definitely the public water supplier of that concessionary, which is defined for a particular area, in cases of floods and other disasters, they must find ways to deliver drinking water. When the flood was in Posavina, we didn't have drinking water tanks, but we delivered to the tanks of public DVDs and public fire stations that are for technical water. So here is also an appeal for the goods reserves and the ministry to get more tanks for drinking water delivery and to distribute all over Croatia but not to be located just around Zagreb. The Ship-Posavia County won two recently and so far we haven't had one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52951	Now we're moving on to an individual debate. First came the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And the next is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52952	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about the Water Act, Drinking Water, etc. There are a lot of problems in Croatia, one of the main problems is that electricity extraction is allowed for socially endangered citizens who do not have money to settle accounts. And I saw it in my eyes through the action of the Living Wall and saw it. In such conditions, citizens really live in humiliation. The one who didn't live without water doesn't know what it's like to live without water. I've got my own time in the apartment, the water I couldn't use for a short, a few hours a day, it's a disaster. And imagine living all day or not giving God weeks or months without water. Unfortunately, the government does not intend to stop the forced excavations of water to those small consumers who are unable to pay bills by depriveing them of their fundamental right, which is the right to drinking water. So instead of charging demand through performance, executive procedure, simply utility companies or water pipelines move waterways and actually take access to drinking water to consumers. Such a policy is the wrong policy and unfortunately this law will not solve the problem. There's one more thing that this law doesn't solve, and that's a question of drinking water pollution. In Donjo Lomnica near Velika Gorica, Strabag builds an asphalt base, this asphalt base is built only 10 meters from the houses and 300 metres from the water station, where the inhabitants of New Zagreb are supplied with water. Such a policy has led the state institutions and local administrations in which both HDZ, Velika Gorica and the state level, has led the citizens of Donja Lomnica into an unspeakable position because of all of these gases, dust, etc. will fall significantly to their quality of life but more importantly to health. Although those who have thought to install that asphalt base there claim that it is not dangerous for health, harmful, etc., certain or let's say, public studies speak the opposite. He says: “Asphalt bases mix gravel and sand with oil derivatives to make asphalt. Asphalt cement is a mixture of hydrocarbons that includes oil that contributes to the evaporation of organic compounds at operating temperature of 150 to 180 degrees. These bases release millions of pounds of chemicals into the air. During production every year including many carcinogenic, toxic, polluting substances such as arsenic, benzene, formaldehyde and cadmium released into the air.’ Asphalt gases are known toxins. The Federal Environmental Protection Agency in America, the EPA, Environment Protection Agency, states: “The processing of asphalt and asphalt roof production plants are the main sources of hazardous air pollutants such as formaldehyde, hexane, phenol, toulen and polycyclic organic substances. Exposure to these toxins can cause cancer, problems with the central nervous system, liver damage, breathing problems and skin irritation." So that's the official position of the federal government in America, and watch this, says, "Influence on health and loss of value of real estate." He says this way: "The property value study documentes losses up to 56% due to the presence of a near asphalt base. In another study, nearly half of the population complained of a negative impact on their health from new asphalt bases. The door-to-door survey showed that 45% of the residents living within a 1km radius of the facility complained about the deterioration of their health that began after the base was opened. The biggest health problems listed are high blood pressure, sinus problems, headache and shortness of breath." Itd., etc., etc. And now, of course, the question is...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52953	Comrade Pernar, you've read it beautifully but we're not talking about air pollution. This is the Water Act for human consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52954	I'm going to lean onto you, of course I'm talking about air pollution right now, but the problem is that the particles that go into the air fall into the surrounding surface and there are only 300 meters from the waterhole, so the Lower Lomnica is building this asphalt base, which means that simply the people who live in Lower Lomnica and those who are supplied with water from that water supply, that their health will actually be damaged. And what I don't understand is why this water law that regulates the drinking water issue doesn't protect the water supply stations from being built around them in such a way as to say industrial plants? The law as such is flawed, it will not address the issue or water pollution as will happen soon with Zagreb's water thanks to HDZ's policy, nor will it resolve the issue of extracting drinking water to citizens who are poor. So I believe that this law has two fundamental problems for citizens, and that is the right to healthy proper water and water as such does not solve and therefore personally, I will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52955	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Prime Minister Tomislav Dulibic will probably give some answers to some of the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52956	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you all for the debate. First of all, I would like to point out that 85% of the population of the Republic of Croatia is connected to the public water line and that out of that, 97% of them have the right samples, so we have that it's not a bad thing, but it's a very good thing about that in the Republic of Croatia. But I'm gonna try to answer all these questions you asked me in the debate. As regards the financial resources in the budget, this means that the financial resources are not needed, additional in the budget. So this is funded from the county budget, it's not about some big money. And so far it's been in the existing law, so it's about 11 million kunas per year, of which 9 million apply to the city of Zagreb, all other counties are covered by some 9 million kunas, so it's not about the significant financial resources that... Everything else the county's funding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to try on these other issues, as far as the Monitoring Committee is concerned, so they're not supposed to be representatives of the water line, because they're making their own personal plans. And then there would be a conflict of interest if they were now and in the expert commission. As far as the charger's concerned, the question of chargers, the chargers are regulated by a special other regulation, meaning the Ministry of Agriculture on mineral and spring waters and are not subject to this law. In the rulebook that the minister's bringing, you said the minister was laying down the rulebook. The design of this Regulation means the participation of the Ministry of Environment, Croatian Water, Public Health, Geologists, chemists, technologists and epidemiologists. So that's what you do on the basis of a professional assessment. As far as I'm concerned, there was something else about the Croatian Institute of Public Health. The Croatian Institute of Public Health is, of course, participating and proposing an annual monitoring plan to the Ministry of Health. Based on it, there's a monitoring plan. As for the frequency provided for whether the frequency of sampling by county to comply with the counties is the same as prescribed by the EU directive. We can't determine for ourselves when it's going to be a frequency.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52957	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52958	Thank you very much. Here we have heard your reasonings and thoughts. I think it's wrong to interpret the composition of the commission in the way you said it, possibly conflict of interest. Well, it's not a high school quiz or prom. This is about a system that needs to be agreed on. Therefore, as it is possible for the Commission to have no technical person to assess the security plans which are of particular concern to the technical aspects of the system to which the plan relates. So it doesn't have to be an individual plumbing, but you have to include someone who has a clue about it. So the health aspect is important and I don't want to diminish it at all. There's a lot of work there, though, because there's so-called. Emergency contaminants. So, which we're just finding out what's in the water, we're just discovering what's all the side effects of disinfection. We discover and care about aspects and toxicology and health aspects. So I don't want to diminish it at all, but it has to be someone who understands what the pump is, what the pressure is, what it means is sometimes the mutilation of the spring, what it means, what it means, what it means, because otherwise it's going to be abstract plans. I don't know how that's gonna be judged. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52959	Thank you. The Honorable State Secretary Tomislav Dulibic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52960	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the Croatian Institute of Public Health will give consent, not this commission will give consent to plans, but the Croatian Institute for Public Health will give consent, and the Croatian Institute for Public Health will hire additional experts of the technical profession he needs. And that's how it's supposed to be. And let me just say that we've brought that into line, we were at a water supply meeting with the association last Friday. In the Republic of Croatia, they had no objection to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52961	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude with this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52962	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act for Human Consumption, second reading, P.Z.E., No. 155, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act for Human Consumption, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 94 for and 21 abstentions, have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act for Human Consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52963	And we move on to the next point, and this is the proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 199. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Administration Dario Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52964	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. You have before you the proposal for a law on the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. The government's authority to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section under the now applicable law that granted the power to the Government will cease on 10 December 2017 because it expires on that day from the date on which the government was given the authority. The bill proposes that the Government be granted the power to regulate the current economic policy issues of the Croatian Parliament and under the applicable Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. The government has so far adopted two regulations that are in force. Regulation amending the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and highly efficient cogeneration and the Regulation amending the Capital Market Act. As under the Constitution of the Regulation adopted under the legal authority, it shall cease to apply to the expiry of a period of one year from the date of the power granted to the Croatian Parliament and the Council unless otherwise decided by the draft law, it shall also be proposed that the regulations adopted by the Government on the basis of the current law which apply on the date of entry into force of this Act remain in force until 30 June 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52965	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first reported on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Ivan Šipic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52966	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed Secretary of State. The Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section of regulations is authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues of current economic policy from the part of the Croatian Parliament, except for changes in the state budget and regulation of taxes, and those issues which only the Croatian Parliament can regulate under the Constitution of the Republic. In addition to the constitutional restriction under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot regulate issues relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, part-line and way of working of state bodies and local self-government, the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate issues of current economic policy is also limited by the provision under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia can use this power only at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet. It is highly authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate individual issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament in the period from the end of the term of office of the Croatian Parliament until the date of the first meeting of the newly elected Croatian Parliament, except for those issues which can only be regulated by the Croatian Assembly and the adoption or modification of the state budget or tax regulation, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section will cease under the said law on 10 December 2017 because that day expires as of the year when the Government of the Republic of Croatia was given the power to do so. The Government of the Republic of Croatia assesses that it still needs to be given the legal authority to adopt regulations on the basis of legal authority, but limited as so far. Only during the period when the Croatian Parliament is not sitting, and for the period when the Croatian Parliament is disbanded or its term of office has expired. In view of the fact that Article 79 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that the Croatian Parliament is regularly meeting twice a year between 15 January and 15 July for the first time and the second time between 15 September and 15 December, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have this power only during the period from 15 December 2017 to 15 January 2018 and from 15 July 2018 to 15 September 2018. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the regulations it has adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall cease to apply on the basis of the legal authority within a period of one year from the date of the delegation of power granted unless the Croatian Parliament decides otherwise. It is therefore proposed that the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the now applicable Law on the power of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament which are valid on the date of entry into force of this law and remain in force until 30 June 2018 at the latest. On the basis of the applicable law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted two regulations – the Regulation amending the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and a highly efficient cogeneration which is in force and the Regulation amending the Capital Market Act is the same. This law is short, clear and necessary for the functioning of the state. Let me get this straight. Given that everything has been mentioned before and as it is the law of the technical nature of the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill and even so, it is one regulation that could go practically since it is so short and clear through one reading, but it is left with the possibility of another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52967	Thank you very much. Although it's a technical law we have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52968	Although it is one as the President of the Parliament has told the Technical Law and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has obtained legitimacy from the Croatian Parliament some laws such as the Law on Renewable Energy Sources are laws which are not only technical, technical nature, so it is important that they are to the fullest extent and considered at the plenary session itself, so it is one of my brief comments. Normally, the government must have the possibility of making decisions in the period when the Croatian Parliament is meeting, but some laws such as this do mean they need to come to the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52969	And we have a distinguished representative, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52970	You told your colleague Šipić that during the disbanded Parliament that the government has authority, i.e. that Parliament has the power to adopt certain laws by regulations, i.e. A regulation to be a force, that we delegate that technically I can actually manage the state. However, it is unclear to me, so you will explain a little bit to me, and before that, I would only briefly say that the greatest progress in the Republic of Croatia was when the Technical Government was and when the Parliament was not disbanded, so that as soon as possible because of Croatia's improvement, this Assembly was disbanded. But the good news is that most in this House are going to judge, the facts are an economic indicator. It's very important, you said that from the moment the Parliament was disbanded to the beginning of the session of the new Parliament,... The government has, technically, that we're giving the i.e. the powers of the Regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In my view, it is illogical, if that is true, you will have to explain it a little bit, I think it should be appointed to the Croatian Parliament of the new Government, i.e. Until the election, until, when the parliament elects the prime minister most of all, the government has been elected. So you're the one who said that if it's true in the law, I don't know if he can explain it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52971	Thank you. Here is my colleague, Šipic, who will try to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I told my colleague Bulj exactly the deadlines set out in the bill. So I didn't say anything from my head, I didn't say anything that wasn't prescribed. So here it simply says this, the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section will cease under the said law, so this one now, this deadline will end on 10 December 2017. And then this step goes on. It is given in a limited manner, so it is given in a limited manner, and then it says so, only in a period when the Croatian Parliament does not regularly meet and for the period when the Croatian Parliament is disbanded or its term of office has expired. And so it's not, it's the same law again. It's the same law again, or we'll ask because the secretary of state is here and there is an opportunity to answer us. If this isn't clear here, let the Secretary of State explain it to us. But in my opinion, at the time of the Croatian Parliament's disbandment or when his term of office expires, it is normal for the Croatian state to function and that there are technical things to be done, we have seen so far. So here's what I'm thinking, and we're going to ask the Secretary of State to say in the final word, but I think it's clear here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52973	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. And now, finally, he will say something to the esteemed Darko Nekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52974	Here I would just try to answer the question, so this is from the law very clearly. So in the period from 15.12.2017 to 15.01.2018 and from 15.07.2018 to 15.09.2018, and during the period from the date of discharge or the end of the term of office of the Croatian Parliament until the date of the first meeting of the newly elected Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52975	Here, my colleague Bulj has a replica, obviously it's not all clear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52976	I understand exactly what you said. You said until, that duration, I'm talking now in the event of Parliament disbanding that the duration of the session is, i.e. to establish a new parliamentary majority, by electing a new president. However, when President-in-Office of the Parliament is elected, it does not necessarily mean that in a short time the government will be elected, there are legal deadlines, it can immediately and it can be longer. What is within that deadline from Parliament's election to the appointment of a new prime minister without a Prime Minister? ... And he doesn't have the technical powers he has in this bill. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] No, there is, it's right up to... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I asked that, I asked until the moment, you said appointments i.e. the election of the president and then the Assembly was established. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This period is unclear to me because this could take a legal period, but it's not funny, but legal deadlines on the election of the Prime Minister can take a long time because they have precisely prescribed procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52977	Well obviously, obviously, here's the answer again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52978	I'm sorry I didn't mention any choice of president. I said very precisely until the day of the first session of the newly elected Croatian Assembly. ... So there's a Parliament then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52979	If I can perhaps explain my colleagues to Bulju, very simply. It's the council that passed the laws. Whether there's a government or no government parliament rules. ... But the Parliament makes laws. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The government is the promoter, you can be the proposing, I can be the proposer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But the Parliament makes laws. Okay. We will conclude this debate and vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52980	Proposal for a Law on Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. Number 199. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 115 for and 1 abstention and 2 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52981	So we will move to the following point: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on construction products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 198; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Željko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52982	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, President of the Parliament. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction Products is that the applicable Law on Construction Products, which was adopted in the 13th and 14th years, provides for systems of assessment and verification of the continuity of the properties of construction products, of operations carried out by manufacturers of construction products and of notified and approved bodies. Documents for further evaluation and verification of the continuity of the properties of construction products, requirements for notified and approved bodies, registration procedure, obligations of notified and approved bodies, obligations and requirements for the designation of bodies and technical evaluation, and the implementation of EU Regulation 305/211 shall be regulated. In addition, harmonised conditions for trade in construction products, working conditions and procedures of the body responsible for implementing the Regulation and other issues relating to the placing on the market or making available on the market of construction products are prescribed. Furthermore, the current Construction Products Act regulates two areas of construction products, a harmonised area of construction products and a non-coordinated construction, construction product area. During 2014, two amendments to that Regulation of the European Union were adopted 305/11. The adoption of this proposed law shall also ensure the implementation of that amended regulation for a harmonised area of construction products. In addition, the legal framework governing construction products in the non-coordinated area has been regulated in the same way as construction products from the harmonised area to which the Regulation itself applies. The adoption of this law shall comply with the provisions of the applicable law relating to the non-compliant area with those amendments and the amendments to the Regulation. Following the rules and implementing them, other necessary amendments have been made to the proposal for this law, such as the need to simplify the application process or notification of the notified bodies in the European Commission, the simplification of the procedures for the implementation of the third party's tasks, i.e. the approved body to be carried out according to the Croatian Technical Assessment and the need to reduce administrative burden on third party bodies, i.e. for notified and approved bodies and a harmonised and non-compliant area with regard to the period of validity of the solution to be adopted by those bodies. On the basis of all this, I suggest we pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52983	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Oh, yes, here's the esteemed Bernarda Topolko, president of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. At its 11th session held on 4 October 2017, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction Products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 198th, which was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 22 September 2017. The Committee shall be responsible for spatial planning and construction under Article 93 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed that act as a parent working body. The introductory explanation of the basic provisions of this proposal for a law has been given by the proposing representative and stressed that the adoption of this law ensures the implementation of an amendment to the EU Regulation No. 305/2011 for the harmonised area of construction products and the provisions of the applicable law relating to the non-compliant area shall be harmonised. During 2014, two amendments were made to that Regulation. The representative pointed out that this proposal for a law will create a legal framework for speeding up the procedures of the notified bodies to the European Commission in such a way that the Ministry of Civil Engineering will carry out an application for the excellence of the solution adopted to the notified body for the implementation of certain actions carried out during the production of construction products. It will also extend the period of validity of the solution adopted by the notified or designated bodies. It is now the sixth year, and this legislative proposal extends the period of validity until it ceases to meet the requirements for the adoption of that solution. In a brief discussion, the question is what this bill means for a small producer, and in which sense it affects its position on the market, especially if it is a small producer of certain traditional products. The applicant's representative explained that, within the legislation of the European Union, Regulation No 305/2011 has the possibility to simplify procedures for small enterprises, and that the EU may and may have the right to make certain decisions in its delegated acts, thereby allowing both non-serial products or products for the production of traditional homes of exceptions from that classical sequence of procedures to be produced continuously at European Union level. It also pointed out that this legislative proposal to the notified and approved bodies or bodies for certification and testing laboratories creates certain benefits that are subsequently reflected on the producers themselves, thus speeding up the process of placing the construction product on the market. The Committee decided unanimously with 12 votes to propose a next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Construction Products Act is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52985	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're going to the clubs. The first is the club of representatives of the HNS and will be spoken by the distinguished representative Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52986	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the proposings, colleagues and colleagues. Here in front of the HNS club, I'm just going to take a brief look at this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Products Act. We have already heard that under the current law, we have a harmonised area of construction products where there are harmonised rules for all EU Member States and we have an uncoordinated area of construction products relating to the area of trade for individual countries. But so far, according to the applicable laws on construction products in the Republic of Croatia, most of the issues of trade in these construction products have been arranged in the same way as for trade in construction products from a harmonised area. So what's most important in this part is that the adoption of this law will bring the uncoordinated area of construction products into line with harmonised products, which, as a result, ensures uniformity and thus simpler enforcement of the rules. So here we create a legal framework to speed up the process of reporting construction products. We have also heard that, in accordance with Regulation 305 of 2011 where there were certain concerns and concerns about those extra-series specific products that are in each area in each Member State that we also have small trades that put businesses and such things and such products on the market, that there is the possibility of exemptions. And that's good. As it is a law that enables this process to be accelerated and faster to realise the application of the Club of Representatives of the HNS will certainly support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52987	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52988	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction Products in the way it was written in the law itself and how Mr. Secretary of State put it in its opening statement. I would just add that since we are talking about construction products, that construction products are in fact a product or assembly that has been manufactured and placed on the market to be permanently installed in the building or parts of it, and whose properties have an impact on the property of the building. In this sense, the Construction Products Act appeared to me in 2012, and in 2014 we had amendments and additions to the Law, so we are practically in line with the 2011 Directive, which has been implemented directly in all Member States since 1 July 2013, and this law will practically enable it to be implemented, as already said on several occasions when it comes to construction products, there are two areas in which it has been defined and established rules at European Union level and a non-harmonised area of construction products for which the Member States of the European Union themselves prescribe the rules of their properties, the way of new construction, trade, etc. etc. What is important is to say, and that is already repeated, so this law now establishes a uniform approach and harmonizes a non-harmonised and harmonised area of construction products. So it is something in itself that we need to accept, and it is good for equating the quality and characteristics of certain construction products. What I would like to welcome, and that there are corrective measures aimed at the manufacturer in so far as the manufacturer of a particular construction product does not place on the market and use of the product that meets the criteria prescribed by legal and sub-legislative acts, there is a certain time that represents voluntary measures in which the manufacturer must comply with the regulations that are defined in this way, and I would say a more rapid form of inspection supervision when it comes to the placing on the market of construction products, and on the other hand, it represents an educational measure towards all producers. I have nothing else to add except that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will also support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52989	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52990	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on construction products, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 198. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Construction Products Act and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 115 votes for and 2 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52991	We're moving on to the next law. - Report on the financial audit carried out by the Fire Organisations The applicant is the State Audit Office based on Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Deputy Chief State Auditor Mr. Jozo Serdarusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52992	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciable MPs and MPs. The State Audit Office has carried out a review of the financial reports and operations of fire departments for 2015 covering 89 entities, including the Croatian Fire Department, 35 public fire departments, 32 fire departments and 21 voluntary fire departments. The number of 89 fire-fighting organisations that we have covered by the revision may seem small to you compared to the number, the total number of fire-fighting organisations is 969 how many of them have submitted financial reports to the Financial Agency for 2015. However, this revision included more than 60% of the revenues of all fire departments that provided financial reports. For the sake of this example, these 969 fire departments made 803 million kunas of revenue, and these 89 that we covered by the audit made 484 million kunas of revenue. As you have noticed, the criteria for which we will include audit by fire organisations were financial significance in the first place, then the results of last review, risk assessment, and collected information on the operation of fire-fighting organisations. Therefore, the criteria prescribed by the State Audit Office Act, which is how many entities we will include, depended on the number of authorised state auditors. We have established by the audit that all fire departments have adopted a financial plan and a work programme, that they have all achieved the tasks and activities foreseen by the Work Programme, and they relate to a large number of interventions, education and skills acquisition and the acquisition of protective equipment needed to successfully carry out fire work. In addition, we have assessed that fire-fighting organisations were effective in carrying out planned activities and tasks under their jurisdiction and that they were mostly effective in spending the funds because the funds were used to achieve the objectives and tasks set. However, the audit also identified irregularities and failures in the business of certain fire organisations, and the irregularities and failures concerned among other things the planning of accounting operations, revenues and expenditures, assets and liabilities and public procurement. Therefore, we have expressed 39 unconditional, 48 conditional, one unfavourable opinion for the Voluntary Fire Department of Lecturer and one abstention for the Voluntary Fire Department of Slunju. For all irregularities and failures identified, the Office has given orders and recommendations to which implementation would contribute to increasing compliance with the law and other regulations and transparency of spending and use of public funds. In addition, on the basis of the established facts on the operation of fire-fighting organisations, the State Audit Office is of the opinion that Article 46 should be amended. The law on firefighting in such a way as to establish the deadlines in which insurance companies are obliged to pay the allocated funds to the accounts of the fire departments and the information on the premiums paid to deliver to the Croatian fire department and to the fire departments in the area in which the secured property is located in order to meet the preconditions for taking action for the timely payment of revenue or showing the claim for unpaid income from that base. Also, since fire departments use highways without paying tolls whether they are vehicles for interventions or not, and that the Law on Roads or other regulations does not regulate this and that they do not show revenue or expenditure on the use of highways, the Office is of the opinion that it is also necessary to regulate it by regulation. Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52993	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52994	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Serdarusic, you were saying that you made certain recommendations after the revision of a number of public fire departments, fire departments, etc. I wonder if you've made a comparison between them, for example. How much does a certain public fire department get from the state budget per fireman? Because we know that there are very big differences and, for example, The public fire unit of the City of Vodice was formed among the last and in 2011 started working, but it was at the amount it received from the state budget at 65th place of them 66. I think that would be very good and that you would determine how many differences there are, how different there are in the personal incomes of firefighters because it's really very unequal at a time when we all know that the teacher in Vodice and the City of Zagreb and I don't know where there's the same personal income in some village, and when it comes to firefighters there are really big differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52995	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52996	Thank you very much. My replica is heading in the direction, you've been doing a review here in the public fire departments, the fire departments and the voluntary fire departments. I think that because of all the problems that firefighters have because we obviously remember them only when we watch fires on TV on summers that these people are fighting these fires heroically, but all of our debates later when we should prepare them for those fires are heading in the opposite direction. Therefore, in my view, since they cannot compare at all the fire communities, they are a roof association of something, voluntary fire companies operate in one way, and the public fire departments have in a certain way solved by the Law on the financing of units of local self-government because we gave a share of 1.5% of the income tax on income from income tax. At first, it was strictly defined which cities were. That was 30. Unfortunately, however, there was a huge expansion of public fire departments, and all with the goal of making these audits separately and showing one great difference in equipment, in receipts, etc. They may come up with a quality basis for how to regulate high-quality fire companies for future times. And what's far more important, this summer we had a chance to see that our firefighters didn't have a tanker, and at the same time, according to voluntary fire companies on the continent, where, while once there was a greater danger than the fires on the continent than at sea, there was a bunch of forward vehicles and tanks of unused ones. So, these material resources should be one of the common good that can be used in crisis situations and I think we should do one, perhaps not a state audit, but someone should do it as one basis for us to do it in a good way in the future one quality material support for these people who selflessly exhibit their lives in order to save other people's property and lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52997	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the government's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first reported a distinguished representative, Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, maybe we should start when we talk about this review of what Mr. Shucker was talking about as an introduction. In fact, most of the time we talk about firemen in the summer when big forest fires break out, when many of them are surprised that our firefighters don't have something, so here's neither tanks, no equipment, no techniques, and so on. But in Dalmatia, they say that people in summer, before the water, they had no water from the wells, and then they say in summer they dig water, and in winter they build houses. That's the case with our fire department. As soon as 11. For 12 months, no one talks about firemen anymore, and normally some other topics come up, other problems come up. The mayors and commissioners have a number of problems as well as state structures and ministries and then forget about the fire department. There's a lot of problems that are visible when the eyes of the public are pointed at the firefighters then you can see how much trouble there is in the fire department. But the fact is that yearly firefighters have about 30,000 interventions. Of these 30,000 interventions 1% of the interventions that the public sees and turn into big fires and then we're interested in the media and the general public. And through that small part you can see all the problems of fire. Today, firefighters are practically one interesting service to all mayors and mayors and here present mayors and commissioners know that their fire department is one service that you have 24 hours at your disposal on the button. I must admit that many, many of the absolute majority of the mayors and commissioners give absolute support and sound support and care for their fire and certainly thanks and congratulations to them. The most difficult situation is in units of local self-government that are poor, most often in Slavonia, and these poor little municipalities of ours do not have the means of fire. This is what Mr. Shuker was talking about while he was a minister, that's when the professional firefighters question was resolved. In that case, the Law of 2000, or 99, came into force 1.1. In 2000 continued financing of professional fires that then emerged from the MUP and then were professionally given to firefighters. Today it came to 300 million kuna a year, it was about 360 but it was shrinking for years. The 300 million are funded by employees in public and professional units, and then this happens, as well as by colleagues from Jurič, that some smaller units have a smaller amount of professional firepower, but the State Protection and Rescue Authority, which is responsible for firefighting in Croatia, has criteria for the number of inhabitants, fireloading, unit size, and thus gives, according to these criteria, determines how much they go through fire every year from these 300 million. However, there was another problem for us. What Shuker also said was that there was an extremely high number, we had 48 professional fire departments, today we have 66, the latest is blue 66. Why? Because all the mayors and mayors think if I start a professional unit then the state will pay me those professionals. If you have a DVD employee who has in Croatia in many voluntary fire companies one, two, as some professional core, then the state gives you nothing. So, for example. on our islands, my Brac, Hvar, Vis or other islands in Croatia that don't have public fire squads, so these professional states don't single out any firemen. And those who have so long discussed in Vodice whether we will establish a professional unit and in Croatia we have applied to the Ministry or to the Government to evenly allocate funds for fire by these criteria the number of inhabitants, the fire burden or, in any case, by those criteria defined in the fire as a danger. Unfortunately, however, we have never come to this and today we have a situation in Croatia that only a unit of local self-government that creates a professional fire department then the state sets them apart by these criteria some amount for each professional fire department. Clearly, these funds are constantly shrinking because they are always the same amount of the 300 million, and more and more units that you form are being taken away from those who already have professional units. And that's why it came from 48 to 66 units, that's one bad criterion, and I'm sure the government should think about going to a level distribution criterion for all units. Because if you know that in Croatia we have 55,000 operational firefighters, these are those who go out to the fire, who have a health check and that basic equipment to go out for the intervention, and of 55 thousand we only have 2,500 professional firefighters in Croatia. We don't aim for a larger number because we don't have the funds, it's always the same problem no funds and this little funding if you leave something more then it's taken out of it. Unfortunately, many local self-government units have no organised fire department, no professional or voluntary firefighters. And then they make deals with some neighbors, and some unfortunately for poverty nothing. Since we are a highly tourist country and a country that has a significant income from tourism then it is logical that, and given these problems with fires, that attention is being paid to fire and I must say all governments have always had an understanding so far and we cannot object that some government has been neglecting us because the government has always tried to make the summer period, help firefighters and always co-finance. However, it is very difficult because unfortunately we share the obvious reality of Croatian society. In Croatia, the average age of fire vehicles in public fire departments is 17 years. And in voluntary fire companies for 24 years. I don't think it's even the average population that we're better at standing in the population, and that's why when a fire happens, then we wonder what the condition of fire trucks is. There was a government programme of 210 vehicles from 2003 to 2008. Here is the good wind this year because of this exceptional situation, you are probably all aware that the government has made a decision to allocate these 30m euros for firefighting or purchase of fire trucks, to improve the fire link of communication from this risk premium or to the European Risk Fund of those 30m euros, as planned for the floods and risks in Croatia. Unfortunately, it'll only bring about 80 vehicles, but it's better than nothing. So our chance is European means. But we didn't, you saw here when there was a recent Homeland Security Strategy, I changed the fire department into that because usually when there's no problem, everyone says let the firemen go. But here's when it happens like this summer then here we are now entering the Homeland Security Strategy, but we as a state don't have a quality strategy that was clearly defined while the Poles, the Czechs managed to make all the fire and risk protection strategies put in significant funds and set out to buy vehicles, build firehouses. Unfortunately, the problem and kindergartens, and schools, and public institutions and homes of old, and now in that constant battle, firemen always get the worst ending. We are one of the better organized states in Europe because and a large number of fires that resulted in that and the equipment you saw you have 6 canadians, 6... The tractor that we here as a small state gave help to one Israel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then it shows that what I said earlier is that all governments were the ones who cared about the firemen, but unfortunately the overall situation in our society and the financial problems resulted in the fact that the fire department is in that state. Here, I appeal to all of you, especially our ministry that follows us that the fire department has an understanding of fire and that it is working through European funds, through quality strategies predicting a place for fire and thus the possibility of using European funds. Our big problem is that in 2005, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue was established when the chief fire commander was transferred to the State Department for Protection and Rescue. So the firehouse to the county level has a clear vertical, and then above the county when you get to the state level then it's divided into two parts. One is the commander-in-chief who is in the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, and here is the Croatian Fire Department and the entire fire department. However, here also after this season, I think it will be an understanding that this chief fire commander will first appoint him to the government and the second to be in Croatia's fire community. Because unfortunately, he currently has a level of officials in the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. Neither is the deputy chief fire chief, this director of the State Department for Protection and Rescue. So here are many and burdensome problems in the fire department, that is, those organisational ones. However, there are 140, 150 years of society in Croatia, and 140 years of Croatian Fire Department organized. This is best known by you who are from the continental part of Croatia where firefighters are much better and more developed or more organizations, there are more firefighters than on the coast because it is an old tradition of Austro-Hungarian and thanks to the Austro-Hungarian and its fire system we inherit this most developed way of fire because today Austria and Germany are the most developed countries when we speak or the best organized fire department. Our wish is that we too strive for this model and that Croatian firepower be our role model for Austria and Germany because it is the best fire department. Unfortunately, today we have some guys who would like to centralize the fire department, who would like a Russian model. The Russian model was what the communist-dictator was he centralized the fire department, put it in the police force, and today it was destroyed by the fire department. And the Russians are coming in to film the state of volunteer fire companies to have such firemen. Because today the fire department is the way of life in most of Croatia because there are three members of the family grandfather, grandson and father means three generations and that's the power that the fire department has lived all these 150 years in Croatia. Here I pray and appeal to Mr. of our Secretary of State and the Ministry not to succumb to it and not to centralize the fire department because it will then be the destruction of Croatian fire department. Because our tradition has resulted in us having the best organised firepower in this part of Europe together with these Austrians and Germans in 150 years. Only when we fix state and social standards will the situation in the fire department be improved. And here's the thing about this audit itself, we welcome the review. It is always good and thanks to the audit because these people from the review at least what I heard at all levels where the audit was correct, advisory because many of this Croatian Fire Department, the fire departments of cities and professional units they have a well-organised system and paid people and they can make it a quality but many voluntary fire departments – you were not in them – because we have a voluntary fire department that has 10,000 kuna per year. Now you can imagine what someone can do, it is most often unfortunately in Slavonia 10 thousand kuna a year the income of that society and then the revision, they are not even obliged to report and so on. But there are also companies on the coast, both on the coast and on the coast are both mayors and mayors most sensitive and then the fire department is best funded and the societies are good there. So voluntary society in the range may be much better than some units in some part of the state and they have considerable resources and it is good to go to review and it is good to see that these companies are being controlled and operated. We're having a problem with HANF, and you noticed that it's not HANF, it's insurance, because we can't trace how much insurance houses have to pay for fire protection. Because they also have a complete risk of floods, earthquakes and this, and when we came to look for how much firepower it is, that they don't lead in particular. And then they can't automatically give us how much of it they should single out, because they have to single out a percentage for the fire department, that they can't possibly give it to us from the eye, and then it creates a lot of negatives. You have seen if we look at the last 10 years, here is Croatia's insurance since it went to private, how drastically reduced income from Croatia's insurance, and these other private houses are also, they are calculating. I can't say that they're lying from this pay phone, but we went to the HANF thinking that they can get in control of it, but they assure us that there isn't, that they don't know how much they have to pay because there's no separate fire protection going on, and here we are in trouble, and you noticed that. As far as highways are concerned, there was a proposal for a new road law that should have regulated that the firefighters had an ENC passage so that it was finally regulated, but here we are expecting that law, when it is passed, this highway issue will also be resolved. Here's a nice revision of correctness and well done work. And I appeal once again to the ministry to respect and not to allow individuals who are already in the state administration who have now gone to the ministry again and who are trying to do evil to the fire department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u52999	Thank you very much. We have a series of replicas. I'm asking nicely to concentrate on the financial audit of the fire departments. Of course, we can talk a lot about fire and we need to talk, but at some other point, now let's concentrate on the financial audit, that's the topic. Here we have, the first replica of the esteemed representative Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53000	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Respected audit. I'm not going to fully listen to you Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, because you said we were holding only a review, but I'm going to rephrase to my colleague Sanader who was speaking in general about the fire department. But clearly it is, but it also concerns a revision that will surely have an opinion about it. Mr. Sanader spoke on behalf of HDZ, the HDZ Club, but I see that he spoke on behalf of all Croatian firefighters because he is the chief fire commander of the Croatian Fire Department and I see that he is definitely in the topic. He mentioned one topic that is very current especially for all leaders of local self-government units. All the mayors and mayors are aware of how important fire is in Croatia, not only when the fire is, but also in other accidents. In the flood, we know that we can rely solely on firemen. But I will update another problem, and that is how Croatian firefighters are financed. When I speak to Croatian firefighters, they're all expensive. We have public fire departments, 66 public fire departments and they get out of the country 320 million kuna as far as I know, 320 million kuna. Now, here's the problem. When we talk about public fire stations, they are mostly in cities and very few units of local self-government and smaller municipalities using the services of these public fire departments because we know that there are 15 million, and they have to satisfy it. Now it would be my question, but it would be my suggestion. We're talking about the state being somebody's mother, someone's stepmom. She is a mother to those who finance cities through public fire departments, and those small poor municipalities don't even get a kuna. That has to change. The state must also take care of small municipalities and cities that are not financed through the public fire department and give funds to them. So, decentralisation. I was quick to count each resident should get 75 kuna of 300 million kunas as many as we have available and that would be enough for the municipalities to finance the fire department completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53001	Thank you very much. Here you are not sticking to the subject, but here you are. Here's a colleague Sanader here to say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53002	Well, I'd like to correct the wrong quote, so 300 million kuna not 320. But that's what I was talking about, and here's my colleague Branka was Chief of Staff, and for four years we talked about it. She was coming, she's gonna start a public unit, I say, don't start, we're fighting there with the government to decentralize everyone, not just these. We had our promises in 2009 and we had our promises that by 2012, we'd solve it all, and then it didn't go away, so the crisis came. Here's Bulj, my colleague, also, tells me, what didn't you set up in Split? This is exactly why we wanted everyone to be evenly divided, not that someone had to start a public unit to get from the state of 5 kuna. Because the tragedy that our islands, what I said, don't have any firemen paid by the state, and I don't know the City of Zagreb has 350 firefighters. We give the city 300 more, but we have to give it to others. And that's the injustice that was done and that's what we're trying to do with all the governments, but we can't help but fight it, some of which, according to the estimates that we made in the Croatian Fire Department, would take another 150 million and then cover the whole of Croatia. I'm more of a supporter to assign those 150 million because this is how the mayor and the captain, he says, so what do I think I'm going to do, I'm going to set up a public unit to take off responsibility and the state will pay for it. That's why it came from those 48 units to 66 and in two years it'll be on 70, 80 units. 'Cause people are gonna say let's let the state pay. That's why you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53003	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53004	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Sanader. Here, after this catastrophic fire season, the topic of fire financing was withdrawn, something you mentioned in your presentation, and here I am particularly interested in. The Croatian Fire Community public fire departments are budget users while voluntary fire companies are non-profit organisations. Here are some commanders, even after this season, the fire department just mentioned this model that the fire department is being transferred under the Ministry of the Interior, you as the chairman of the Fire Department, I'm interested in your opinion as to what it would look like, would that help develop the fire department quite specifically in the purchase of equipment, would that increase the budget of our fire department or would it actually reverse us in development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53005	Answer, Your Honor, Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53006	Well, that's what I said, I'm absolutely against centralised firepower because centralizing fire would lead us into a Russian model. It's a model that was specific to all those eastern countries and today their fire department is dead. We in our country where we have trouble with the fires of open space the biggest, that people must be fire. What does it mean? The more people and this tradition that we have and the strength of voluntary firepower to strengthen even more. Here, in Split, Torcida came and put out the fire but people were neither dressed nor equipped. So if someone was killed then, who would answer? I called back then, and now I call on our citizens to engage in a system or voluntary fire or a mountain rescue service and the Red Cross because civil protection is its operational force and that is the only way we can stand up to these problems. We can't have as many professional firefighters as it takes in the summer period to put out the fires, because a professional unit owned by Vodice has 20 firefighters tomorrow. Put in four shifts that's five. Count on one of them to be a commander, that one must be a secretary, not to mention accounting and the rest that someone must stay in the home when the vehicle comes out, that one of these is the driver. So who's going to turn it off? It could be one firefighter and one driver eventually, and that's not the answer to the problem, and 20 people cost. Count that 10 thousand kuna is a gross salary without equipment, without anything else, and then you see what the funds are, and I appeal and I know that it has the strength because it has traditions that our citizens who are willing to have strength and will, many can be a spare composition, but it's certainly a better model than this centralization. And I said, unfortunately, one came and now to the ministry of the gentleman who's trying that model. I've been fighting him for 10 years, but I hope the firefighters win that battle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53007	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53008	Dear fellow Sanader, as you have said to our citizens, most of our citizens and the media of firefighters remember when such disasters occur that we have seen throughout Dalmatia. What we leaders of local self-government units know is that the huge percentage of all those vehicles, all those equipment on those fires, was precisely the operating means of voluntary fire companies that mainly funded cities and municipalities. And there's that 1.5% of our obligation to finance the supply of that equipment and it's back to what my colleague was saying earlier about what's being financed from the state budget, which is being financed from the budget of the local self-government units. I am convinced that even when performing the audit, auditors could see that a number of voluntary fire departments have different ways of running bookkeeping, so some are run by bookkeeping services. I don't see why a voluntary fire company financed exclusively by a local self-government unit should no one else, why don't you and bookkeeping run it by an employee in a local self-government unit. It's already 10, 20 thousand kuna savings depending on the fire department, and I'm not talking about fire communities, I'm not talking about covering an operational plan in the field of local self-government units that, despite the fire departments and the local self-government units in their area, they're having some kind of contracts with public fire departments, and they're paying for it. I'm saying this for the reason that it's the revision and your exposure, and we all know on the ground that we are the leaders of the local self-government unit that the fire department needs a much stronger transport in terms of legal regulation that will define these things. In my opinion, that model while the fire department, or the professional part of the fire, was still under the MUP, was, in some way, a better solution than today. But in any case, decentralisation of these functions should then be brought down to units of local self-government and resources, not just attributable to our obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53009	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Sanader will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53010	Here's an esteemed colleague you speak absolutely like any mayor and chief. You've been burdened and logically wants to get rid of this problem why you should have it with you. However, we had a situation in 2003 when a public unit was established in Imotski, and then two years of the state did not give funds to that unit, so people were without pay for two years. It was the same in Metkovic, so for 2 years people were without pay because the state at one point stopped funding public units and that's the fear that in the case of fire, voluntary firepower set up a unit, and tomorrow the state changes some law or plan and then falls on the burden of units of local self-government. What do you think in Vodice is now the 20 or how many firefighters there are, 26 firefighters, 16 means 20 firefighters fall on the load, they're still good, because they have some income tourist. But take some Slavonic small town or municipality that would get 20 people on their budget can go bankrupt immediately. We absolutely must not allow ourselves to decentralize any function without decentralizing the funds and we must fight for decentralisation to decentralize the funds for fire, and then you commissioners will evaluate along with the professional people in the fire department which is your best model, how much. Look, I live in Castle City, 45 thousand residents. We have nine professional firefighters, but we have three strong companies with strong volunteer firepower and we've decided on this model because we think it's the most effective and financially best because with a small number of professional firefighters we stick to the system. But the city is also setting aside funds for voluntary fire and it's a simpler model. You can't do it without professional firefighters, you just have to always see how much it costs. It's easy to have when you have a second salary, and that's why you mayors and mayors have to raise your voice and demand equality, or let's start all public units, and then how do we end up?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53011	Thank you. I'm asking you nicely, let's stick to the subject. We are talking in general about the fire that I repeat is an important topic, about the financing of fire and so on. However, the subject is financial audit, please. The next is a replica of Branka Juričev-Martinchev's distinguished MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53012	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Sanader, when we talk about audits, and we heard earlier from our colleagues a comparison of public fire departments, although I have made a criticism as much as the public fire department gets the funds, voluntary fire departments don't get any. However, you also mentioned that there are those units of local self-government that do not have an organised fire department. It seems to me that they are still the wisest and smartest because they make some kind of deal with the neighboring unit of local self-government, they say we can't single out more than five, ten thousand kunas and they protect themselves. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Fire Department says it is prescribed that the municipal chief, mayor and mayor have an obligation to care for the needs and interests of citizens in their area to organise an effective fire department, where the fire protection plan determines tasks and areas etc. And now, those conscious leaders they bring in a plan to assess the threat of fire, we know it's being ordered, that when experts go out on the field and see how many hectares that unit of local self-government is, how many citizens protect, especially in our summer months, that this assessment shows as a rule the minimum of 20 employees and employees. When it comes to the city council, or the municipal council, then it is all the responsibility of the head to ensure it, as well as from what means. Indeed, under the urgent need to change the way of funding, I will join all of these criticisms that my colleagues also said independently from which club MPs come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53013	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53014	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you are absolutely right, irresponsible individuals, irresponsible mayors and mayors go to the calculations to pay 5,000 kuna fines if they don't have a system. However, there is another danger that they do not think about, that the mayor's house, one of his citizens, he and under this law and under the constitution are responsible for the protection against fires. So he, too, would probably have a responsibility and that municipality would have to compensate for the damage to that citizen. Because you're obliged to provide him with fire protection as well as an ambulance, not an emergency county, but what's in jurisdiction, kindergarten, I don't know. So and this, you're responsible under the law. The fact that you don't know that you're responsible and that you're avoiding it doesn't free you from responsibility when an event happens so tomorrow someone's charging you with the expenses that have been incurred, or God forbid the man who died. Your responsibility as mayor and mayor is your legal responsibility and punishment for such cases. I know that there are these things that you're talking about but the revision can't solve, it's not in the jurisdiction of the review, it's in the jurisdiction of the inspection, that's the law that has to punish more rigorously and who don't respect the law and don't set up a unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53015	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Goddess Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53016	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Sanader, here's the agenda item, it's true that the report on the audit carried out in the fire department, but you've kept most of your exposure to what's most important in the fire department, and that's his activity. But I'm still going to do a little bit on this part of the review because I have to say that out of the 89 audits that have been done, I'm actually amazed at how good the results are, since I know all the problems you're facing in the field of fire. If we start with DVDs as non-profit associations, in the same fire community within which they operate these voluntary fire companies, i.e., they act, everyone registered has their OIBs have trained firefighters and meets those basic criteria. However, there is a difference. Let them work through the giro-account of the fire department, let them have their own, some try to run accounting themselves, some find someone to guide them without any compensation because they really don't have anywhere to pay. It's their basic thing to be firefighters because it's our tradition to help people. Well, it even happens in those smaller places to get fire trucks into donations. There was a lot of donations in my neighborhood from England. Some of them wouldn't take it because they said we'd keep it. And I really have to say that we should work on helping these DVDs, these fire departments to find a module so that they can do normal business, or to meet these legal regulations. And just to ask, do you think a new full legislative regulation is needed on what was said to be a fairer condition for the fire departments of professional and operational and what was turned over is, in fact, neither the DVDs nor the fire departments or the public units that have committed these violations and has been put into opinion as far as tolls are concerned, will they be able to settle certain rules and regulations within the existing laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53017	The answer to the esteemed President Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53018	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you've been very good at detecting problems because you obviously know the problem. Many societies volunteer to be run by municipalities, everything goes, they are budget users and HVZ is a budget user and goes directly through the Treasury, so there is no autonomy in that sense. But people find different ways and surely they should try legislatively to solve, I don't know, athletes have 1,700 without any taxes, firefighters pay taxes for each kuna. From stimulating the seasonal fireman who works, working for 3,500 kuna, and the hardest jobs and the hardest fires when they were. So there's a series of things to regulate. However, here are the firefighters kind of modest, so they always think we should share fate or state in society, and then they don't complain much, but since you know it by some places especially on the continent where the whole village is in society, they're all organized and people get along and don't ask anyone for help. I said I was in Slavonic place 10,000 kuna has a budget for the whole year. What's he got to do with it? Even the power can't pay or fuel if it has a vehicle. So here, more attention will have to be paid, and legal regulation will have to deal with those things that can be solved. We can't expect firemen either, it's to get rid of everything with firemen overnight, because it's impossible. While someone out there has no personal income, while people have a pension of 1,500, or 1,000 kn, then we can't ask that the firefighters get rid of all this, to buy new vehicles, new drones, that's impossible. But many things can be brought into order, to make life easier. And what you said, for review too, here we can be witnesses that only one society had a negative grade, that all the grades were positive, and that is still a sign, that one big concern is being conducted, and given the years of internship, people have learned, if the regulations are constantly changing, so that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53019	Thank you. The next replica, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53020	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Sanader, therefore, I can say once again that I appreciate all your efforts in fighting for a better position of fire in the Republic of Croatia. And if you remember when we talked about the Homeland Security Strategy, I asked myself to enter the very strategy of the fire department's name. And with that, regarding your remarks, it's not good what we have today, the State Protection and Rescue Authority or the Chief Fire Commander, he's not even in the ranks of the Director of the State Department for Protection and Rescue, and my opinion is that he should at least be in the ranks of the Secretary of State. But let's get back to this review and report. So, I agree with my colleague, well this report has shown, the report is excellently done, and the good picture still gives. Given all the conditions we've all talked about. It's serious business. And the state has to be serious about this business. I will now read from the section of the review, the work programme, the fire organisation, my tasks and objectives under the provisions of the Fire Protection Act, the Fire Protection Act, the Law on Protection and Rescue, the Law on the Civil Protection System, the plan for intervention in large open spaces fires, the programme of activities in the implementation of specific fire protection measures against the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the statutes, work programmes, financial plans and other acts. And let us not forget what counterpart Jurinchev Martinchev also said and plan protection against the fires of local self-government units and, in general, civil protection. So these are serious things. You said there's more operative firefighters in DVDs than there are in public fire departments. According to these people, the state has to show responsibility. I even compared it in the Fire Department, not to stand the minimum, to even say there if someone were killed in the fires, that the local self-government unit on the ground where he died would provide him with a funeral. Well, I mean, these things need much more serious access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53021	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed President Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53022	Well, look, you're just as good at knowing this problem as many people here in our House, but a volunteer firefighter, if he's injured on fire and has some kind of problem, he has no right, because like he's not busy, he can't get any compensation, because he's hurt on fire, which isn't his job. A professional firefighter can. Of course, because it does. So both that detail and a lot of those things that, but I've written letters, hundreds of memos here, that we've written, we just don't have an answer. And I'm proud that there's really no division between the parties or anything in the fire department. We're really here, one movement in common and there's no division, but unfortunately, we can't break the door into any government that comes, because we forget the firemen. And absolutely we... We're asking not to be a broom to anyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have no reason to be anyone's broom. Firefighters have their structure clear, and command and organisational and 150 years it's being built. So you can't come an individual now, because you know what politics is, some individual comes in, thinks he started it all, and then he would now edit something because he saw on TV the fire department. And some commanders who worked in the service for 15, 10 years don't know anything. Here, we are also fighting against all the parties, that is, all the policies that come negatively. Here, and it's strength, and that's why we survived for 150 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53023	My dear colleague, Dear Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53024	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I would just like to stand in defense of all MPs on either side, who mentioned the first form of fire, because it is very much linked to the financing of fire departments and certainly when we get a review report on the financing of the fire community, that we will be wrong about this legal form, because after this summer, such a topic has been very moving. What's important is to say, to point out, so she would comment on the report of this audit that she can't give real needs in the fire department, because of course we'd like to see them here because 800, respectively, even 900 fire companies. We had no insight into their financial statements, not because they broke some law or did not keep good records, but because by 20115 as an association they had no obligation to make financial reports at all. So that's exactly what it can give us, in fact, one other conclusion, that a lot of them need a much larger funding, because as soon as they're not in that commitment, we know that we have little funding opportunities. Comrade Sanader also mentioned 10,000 kn that they were functioning. And I'd like to comment here and praise this comment that we're going towards maintaining that tradition and voluntary fire companies and not going towards public fire departments, because that's exactly what we've been building for the last 150 years and no money and no centralized funds can pay for the heart. We have a lot of examples here every day in the parliamentary debates of how we need to decentralise things, so we are also rebelling against systems and Croatian forests and Croatian waters, how these offices work. As they are locally recognized, visible and well-known, and right here we have a fire department and I don't think there's any need for it not to improve and that the problems are not solved and that they're only solved if their systems are centralized as well as finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53025	Thank you, dear colleague Dragica Rosičić, for the answer of my colleague Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53026	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, dear fellow Members, I agree absolutely with you, that a little bit of this, and this revision you said, it didn't involve many societies, because many virtually and have no means whatsoever, but if you look at 60.2% of the total income in the entire country, it means from societies of municipalities, cities, county and state 60.2% of the income is covered by this audit. Then it's a good picture when we're talking about financial rather than total. We have 1816 companies and 66 units. It's almost 2,000 units, legal entities. Then this is a small number. But it's important that those who have higher income be examined. I mean some societies that have 10,000 kunas and 50 or 100 like that have nothing to look at. But all the larger societies, all the public units, bigger and bigger budgets, have been reviewed. So it's one picture, and I think it's a good thing that this is the way it is. What my predecessors said here today in the debate, but it's only an indicator as a basis for us that we MPs are responsible through the laws to try to improve the situation and try to make the system work in full effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53027	I thank my colleague Sanader for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Angelko Striker, please. He's not present. Debate final on behalf of the Representatives' Club esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53028	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, esteemed auditors, esteemed secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The fire protection is otherwise civil protection and all segments of it must first and foremost be coordinated on this report financially when we say that we must only talk about the financial report that the audit has made as well as all its reports based on indicators and facts and, of course, the indifference they warn about. However, I see that the whole debate and fellow Sanader, otherwise it is worth one old proverb when you mistake the path is a guide, and it is known who leads the fire department in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the fact that we are talking from this pay phone about fire, and when we look at only the public fire departments of Croatia 302 million kuna has the means for 66 public-fire units at least. It is so unfair that I agree with Anto Sanader, that the least funds are provided by the Split-Dalmatia County, which is both the largest territorial and per capita. I'll compare the example to Istria. Istria is 4 times smaller territorial, there are 30 million kunas from decentralised funds. Split-Dalmatia County has a total of 15 million, 4 times larger and 2 and a half times more inhabitants than Istrian County. It's unfair and I agree with Mr. Sanader here, but the fact is that it's unfortunate that Kaštela doesn't have a public fire unit. We must cultivate voluntary fire, and the second is voluntary troops that are 150 years old, in my Sinj 110 years old, but the fact is that the largest county of Split-Dalmatia until recently had only two public-fire units, and Split itself is larger by the number of people from Istria. It's a fact, and we're not gonna talk about islands, we're not gonna talk about all of Dalmatia that's forgotten, which is the most threatened in the matter of fire. We can go through the woods, but I agree with the principle that it's unfair. But why unfair to Dalmatia? Why is the least of the decentralised resources heading towards Dalmatia? That's where I'm asking the question. At least that the number of inhabitants, according to the estimates of fire and technical explosions or these elaborates and the evaluations done by experts, would understand this, but I cannot understand that it was the least isolated in the Split-Dalmatia County, and we have seen the effects of the Sibenik County, Sibenik-Kninska and Dubrovnik that these are extremely endangered areas, large terrain, the terrain imperceptible in part and in the war and mined so that it is difficult to speak at all in this way about fire. And it's very important, very important that there is no hierarchy, so neither command nor vertical. We don't have any subordination at all, and that was visible in the last fires. And I'll do it again in the end. When you make the wrong path, it's the guide, and the guide is the one who runs the firemen. One who manages firefighters can't happen to have the least assets per capita who are the most threatened by fire. That's why the Sinj City Council made that decision on the establishment. As a result, the Tribal would have both Kaštela and Solin, and therefore it would be more funds to be centralised, that professional units, and local self-governments to encourage associations, voluntary fire companies, what all cities have to do with legal obligations, and so did Sinj, Kaštela, Split and other cities. So the public fire department is professionals, they're soldiers who, in all their needs, go to all threats to help the population, and volunteer fire departments tend to care because they're the ones who basically bring out the best, who will later be professionals. And there's nothing else there but the triba being an even schedule of financial resources and that the triba have at least some calculations and criteria of what it isn't now. I told you a comparison. Some counties don't have a few kunas per capita for fire and some have 500. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53029	I thank my esteemed colleague Miri Bulju for this final word. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53030	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, we discuss this subject in a lot both vertically and horizontally. I still think that, for example, Sinj now has 20 firefighters I think there will be 20 professional firefighters. How long is it in Sinj? You've got 20 professional firefighters. So twenty professional firefighters they can't solve problems protecting against fires in Sinj. They cost two and a half million. At least for personal income only. Castle's still not gonna have a professional fire department. Why? Because until we make a state clear decision and a law that will say that the fire department is decentralized and that it is given to everyone, then every mayor and mayor will decide what he will do in his field, whether he will. It's the same as you in the family and each of us, each and every one of us calcifies. Everyone would buy me something new. I advocate there are 50,000 professional firefighters in Croatia, but are we as a state ready to do so, is that what we can pay? We can't pay. And we already have tradition, we have people, we have experience, we have will, we have will. And now instead of fostering it and developing it we're going to this simpler model let's take it from the state, let him think that and I'll hire 20 people and I've solved the problem. But you haven't solved anything with it, and when you have 20 professional firefighters, you have two on shift again, I repeat. One has to be the driver, one has to stay on the phone, so one fireman goes and one driver goes to the intervention, they can't do anything. And that's the problem. And with that money, you could, when you're one day mayor, then you'll think about what's best for you to do like anyone else at home. So Istra had professional units and the others, she had before the '90s. Professional units and the rest are the same. We didn't have, we had volunteer fire and so did the rest. And we'll develop it further.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53031	I thank Mr. Sanader. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53032	I would again like to commend volunteering in the Republic of Croatia 150 years old. I'm talking about one thing, these are associations that finance local self-government and the city of Sinj singles out for voluntary fire company million and 700. The public fire department is something else in the structure, but it is unfortunate that, based on the assessment of fire from explosions, of all these elements, the number of inhabitants, the inaccessibility of the terrain, and this has every local self-government that is not brought as far as it takes on one Cetina region, the Imot area, the Split swimming pool, the islands. We've got islands, they don't have any public fire departments. And it's sad that Kaštela doesn't have a public fire unit, I don't get it. But I always say when you make a mistake who's to blame? A guide. When I come to Sinj, and when we make a mistake, the guide is guilty, and so are you, as the leader of the fire department in Croatia, you have wronged the way. The source is, you know where the mistake is? It's never when the stream is empty and there's little water it's not the wrong trough, it's the wrong spring, the weak water flows. You're the problem, Mr. Sanader. Voluntary fire departments should be provided by these voluntary firefighters who are financed by local self-governments should be the most elite, most capable people, that is, the military, those are professionals who need to be trained for the most extreme conditions in any risky situation. But no, now you'd be associations that the cities started to become professionals. To cultivate a voluntary fire company, they should be a source, but again I repeat to you says the river has no water flow. It's not the root, it's the source and you're the source. You're the one who heads the fire department. And if anyone in 20 years has been publicly damaged is Dalmatia, mainly in 2002 and the silence of the people who led the fire is catastrophic and the consequences have been seen in the last fire of Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53033	I thank my colleague Bull for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53034	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, we need to know sometimes and we need to see what caused the fire was and what the county and city authorities were doing. This year I was in Split and at sea, and I watched a little bit of the environment as it all seemed. I find most of this fire to be the fault of local and city authorities. We have communal directors who have salaries, who go around watching what's going on and what's who's done and who's not. So whether the woods had cleared the roads and had the roads done what they should have done and given warnings on time. I was in Trogir down at this hotel in Honeyno, so I watched and since I come there often this year I was there, so I saw that forest in "Honey" completely in the grass from one of these feet away. Somebody just had to throw a cigarette to burn it all. Well, I wonder whose hotel it is. Why didn't someone cut it in the season? Here, I'm telling you openly, now it's like that and there's not a single bench out there that you can sit down. And I'm asking you, and that's what's causing all the questions. So, in the woods where "Medena" is grass is half a metre, trails have healed on foot. Whose hotel, I don't know, doesn't matter, but he's got to keep it going. And like all other things, weeds have to be maintained and then we'd have less.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53035	I want to thank my colleague Misic. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53036	Well, I'd agree with you that means fire prevention. The fact that a number of particles of land where cattle used to be, where it was processed that it was abandoned, that this area would really need communal monks, i.e. The local self-governments are more concerned because these abandoned land weeds are all, even here becoming the most common and wild dumps and these are the main causes of uncontrolled fires that are quickly planned, nearby the settlements and I would agree. Here's the topic it's very important that there's no fire, we're saying there's no fire and here we're talking about when there's been a fire or something. about people who need to stop those fires. It is a prevention that is very important and should be thought about and should mean first Croatian forests where owners are asking what they are doing and whether anyone is doing anything and paying, a local self-government that has its own employees, which is also responsible for its municipal companies that are obliged to do so or privates who are obliged to charge for it, but the fact is that the fire department in Croatia, I was talking about the other thing. We're talking about the fire department here, the financial report that's least talked about, the report is what it is. The audit does its job professionally. We talked here about the unbalanced deployment of decentralised funds for the fire department and we talked about voluntary fire companies, people, volunteers who train and those societies need their, they're old, my blue 110-year-old for a day to celebrate, it's a huge capacity. However, we are talking about public fire departments, professionals, and the least funds go to Dalmatia, at least. So per capita, mostly in Split-Dalmatia County. And that's why I'm going to repeat here, there's always a problem with people who are in charge. I'll repeat this old saying, it's not -- the problem is when you get lost on the road in the guidebook. And the guide is just... the head of the fire department, the fire department of Croatia and of course the problem from the head is solved problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53037	I thank my colleague Bull for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53038	Dear colleague Bulj, I have listened carefully to at least part of one of your presentations, but I think as usual in the Croatian Parliament that we at least talk about the subject, because the subject is the 2015 Review Report and includes both public fire departments and voluntary fire departments and fire departments. The report could be discussed a lot, however, is so large that it needs to sit down and warm the bench. But I just want to replicate you on a few details. First, as the review was this year, the public fire departments are the most exclusive part of the fire department and should be kept under special attention all the time. But they're just the executive part of the system. The system isn't just political, and the system isn't just financial. The system must have what you said, I don't know what you meant by that, and your vertical and horizontal coordination or what we used to call co-ordination is. Therefore, it must be known who did not organize the whole system, and the reasons I think the revision is not in charge. The causes of high-risk fire protection are something else and we don't have that analysis in front of us, and it would be worth doing, it would be worth saying that we're an uninhabited country, that we don't have cattle, that we don't have processed land and that the risks have been greatly increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53039	I thank my colleague Silvan Hrelja. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53040	Well, my colleague Hrelja, I would agree that it is not the subject of the report but I would agree that the previous performances have talked about this problem and the facts, from the end I will start, the fact is that prevention is the biggest problem and safe, and fellow Misic is mentioned, to prevent both cattle and Croatian forests and owners of other land and local self-government and county and state property that is not controlled, abandoned objects will all be, in fact, the causes. And what you said about subordination or coordination, I agree. It's not just having a professional firefighter, it's like a professional soldier. The question of who's commanding him, what will he do at what time? He's well equipped. I couldn't agree more. And then they should be the elite fire departments. And a voluntary fire company, to cultivate, these are associations that are 150 years old that need to be brought out by these professionals and that's where the problem is solved. And for that, the state needs to provide decentralised funds for professionals. They're supposed to be professionals, they're people who are ready for the most serious threats. So these are people, it's a soldier, I think he should have exercise every day, he has to have standards to meet, dressed, psychophysical and motor skills at maximum. And that's where I agree. But the key problem has been proven and in recent fires it means coordination and subordination and communication. This was proven in the last fires, where literally ordinary people, Torcida, gas fire, and we have firefighters who are ready and able. But they just don't get orders on time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53041	I thank my colleague Bulju, although most of the exposure was past the subject but good. This concludes the debate on this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the applicants, the respected deputy state auditor, Mr Joza Serdarusic and his associates, for their reasons. I also thank the government's representative, State Secretary Mr. Zark Katic, of the Ministry of Interior for reasons. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53042	Report on the financial audit carried out by fire departments. The applicant is the State Audit Office, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the financial audit of fire departments is hereby accepted, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 114 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53043	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Annual report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data 2016 Report is submitted by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, based on Article 31. The law on the protection of personal data. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The government has delivered its opinion. Director of the agency Mr. Ante Rajkovich might want to give an additional explanation? Here you go, Mr. Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53044	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament I welcome you all together and I would like to point out in this brief presentation several important specifics concerning the work of the Agency for 2016. What characterizes this reporting period is, firstly, a significant increase in the number of inflows of cases relating to rights and legal opinions requirements and a number of representations of citizens. That's what you see from the nominally presented data in the tables, so I wouldn't repeat it. I would only point out that if these submissions were related to numerous forms of abuse of personal data, I would point out only some, such as the use of other people's personal data in executive procedures. Then, the processing of personal data by video surveillance systems, the processing of personal data by credit institutions of banks or banks, the misuse of many on the Internet and the availability of data through Internet browsers. Using data from children and minors. Next, the processing of personal data for marketing purposes, the classification of specific categories of personal data by employers etc. I would only point out that during that year, we have solved and completed 142 cases concerning the application for protection of law and in this regard we have brought the right words. Some of these items were transferred next year, but they were already completed in the meantime. In addition, I would like to emphasise the administrative disputes that the Agency is necessarily leading to when, after a solution of the interested party not satisfied with such a outcome, such jurisprudence is brought to administrative courts. Such disputes are as regards the 2016 solution 15, i.e. administrative cases, have been initiated. They referred to the publication of data on the termination of public duty in the media, the processing of personal data by companies such as municipal, processing of personal data for the purpose of paying utility services, requests for personal data insights, the right to forget and similar occurrences. As for the part relating to criminal proceedings, it should be pointed out that we also increased the number of submissions in that year because of the suspicion of the infringement or the indictments being committed and I must say that this is a conditional procedure. Where, by acting on one of the grounds provided for by law, the Agency adopts an appropriate solution, the appropriate legal form in which it imposes certain measures, it shall therefore order the conduct of a legal person or person to whom the subject is objecting and, if he does not act by order from the Agency's resolution, to resort to the initiation of infringement proceedings to infringements of courts. This is also interesting that there may be certain legal fences that reduce some effect on these proceedings simply because we are under obligation to notify, send notice to the person, legal person or the person responsible in the legal person against whom we are taking the proceedings. It's been going on a lot in practice anyway. A certificate of receipt of the notice is required, and only then is the initiation of the procedure, etc. Some of these procedures, of course, go into obsolescence thanks to such a simple slow reaction. The characteristics of this reporting period are also seen as a trend in the increase in the use of personal data on the Internet and social networks. We must be aware of that, almost daily, of these facts, and in that sense we have dealt with you and dealing with such situations. In addition, irregular procedures and legal opinions have increased significantly in numbers and it is not necessary to stress that giving legal opinions and giving or adopting views about it is one of the relevant segments of the Agency's work. As far as supervisory activities are concerned, it is also visible from the tables. The supervisory activities in the supervisory segment have grown significantly by official duty and by sectoral approach. Sectors such as public authorities, local and regional (regional) self-government, health, finance, telecommunications, science and education, culture and sports are affected, etc. So, like I said, there's a significant increase in all these activities. Perhaps as a specific instrument, I would like to list activities in the area related to the Schengen evaluation or checks of relevant European institutions and bodies for preparedness around the entry of the Republic of Croatia into Schengen space and first evaluation, the first round of evaluations set out in February 2016 just started at the Agency. The report delivered by the evaluation team to Croatia was absolutely positive and there was actually a moment to continue the further rounds of evaluation that here I think are entering some distance or this final phase. As regards the obligations that the Agency also has under the Croatian visa system, h-vis, we also made during the year and 6 visits to diplomatic and consular offices where we are in the advisory and recommendations in fact I sincerely hope to help out there at these premises externally, therefore our countries with our diplomatic representations on the regulation of visa issues and concerns about the protection of personal data and in this regard. I would also point out a marked increase in activity compared to the previous year in terms of raising awareness in general about the importance of the right to the protection of personal data as one of the fundamental rights, and in this respect you see in the shown data that these activities relating to raising awareness of primary education, education of children and young people, counselling, therefore and contact with the media in general, with the public generally increased in 2016, it seems to me that 41 such activity has been carried out, and even more significant for 2017, it has joined the planned implementation of all these activities so that here is not yet near the end of the year. But we're chasing towards the fulfillment of the plan and not only the fulfillment but also the overrun. In conclusion, I wanted to point out that we are and we always do this by respecting both constructive criticisms and proposals that arrive and have just arrived from you respected MPs and MPs. The Agency has sought to strengthen its and supervisory and advisory activities in continuity, and we intend to continue to do so, and in particular during the time ahead, it is the full application of the General Data Protection Regulation, which in the field of Europe as well as in the Republic of Croatia goes into full application in May 2018. I wouldn't last any longer. Thank you so much for going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53045	I thank Mr. Director of the Agency Mr. Anti Rajkovich. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. A representative of the government? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA's esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53046	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Protection of personal data is an important issue for each of us, and I think it is bad in Croatia. I would dare say very bad, and I would briefly support that with a few examples. The first example is that here's the moment when the car's car insurance expires, you'll all get two, three, four or five calls from other insurance companies who know exactly when your car expires, what kind of policy you had, which is your address, which is your phone number, or for example, insurance of your house or life insurance. So I'm asking how is it possible for me to make a deal with one insurance house, and then all insurance houses have the same data? So how is that possible? And I believe you've all experienced it. So that's one example of how in Croatia these personal data are colliding with the market and we're basically completely unprotected, our privacy is given into the hands of people who do not necessarily have good intentions. Another example I wanted to talk about and I talked about for the last time, but I think it's worth telling at first, to warn about the continuation of bad practice, and that's giving data to law enforcement agencies. So I'd like to say first of all that they're owned by foreign law enforcement agencies. 99% of these agencies are in the hands of foreigners, and I think they should be very careful when personal data is given to foreigners by Croatian citizens, and on the other hand these data are given without any warning. So it's only when your long day to one of those agencies finds out it happened that there's no prior notice. What's worse in communicating with these agencies that day and night terrorise citizens, harassing to the senseless madness you can't even find out where those agencies are based, who's sitting in their administrations, what they call people who call you, and you can't get anything from them in writing. Here's a try at any law enforcement agency to get some written information. It all comes down to a phone conversation, some kind of oral arrangement, where they film you, and you can't even find out what they're called. When you look at the business offers of these Agency for the collection of claims there it clearly states that they follow your behavior and your habits. So they'll find out when you're eating, when you're sleeping, when you're at work, when you're not gonna get you exactly the time when they're sure you should answer the call, then we'll call and then we'll just call it 11 o'clock in the evening or at 6 o'clock in the morning they'll call you. And they'll call you over 10 times a day, watch over 10 times. They're gonna call your neighbors, they're gonna do you a shame, they're gonna call your family, and if you just happen to call me, I don't know, pick up someone else's phone, maybe someone else's brother, or something like that, they're gonna ask who you are, what you're in time with them, etc. The kids are being questioned on the home phone. So it's a very bad practice that should end and since the Agency for the Protection of Claims doesn't do anything about it then I'm going to do the Living Wall Club, we're going to submit a legal proposal to ban those agencies from and to travel from where they came from. I don't think there is any need between the creditors and the debtors, and it's especially worse that those agencies are charging for the same debt that is charged by FINA, which is charged by a public notary, means one of those same debts. So if my debt stands on the fina and waits on the line, then what does he have to call again now and force some debt. Thank God, I don't have a debt from any law enforcement agency, but I'm talking about painting. So these are two examples that we think citizens' personal data is not protected enough, examples from the practices we felt on our own skin. I do not necessarily claim that the employees of this agency are guilty, but we do not accept this report in principle because we consider them co-responsible. We know that the legislator who is the most responsible, we know that greed in Croatia is enormous, that these vultures and lenders are just watching to further rob, torture, maim Croatian citizens, but no matter what, we believe that this agency should have been more active because here are many people who do not even know that it exists or know what it is doing and that it has some positive results then definitely the citizens would react better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53047	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53048	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I am referring to the presentation of my colleague, Bunjca, in fact, I would be interested in the fact that the report of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is not fully visible, which would be part of the role of the Agency, in part to you, but in part concerns all of us, what is the role of the Agency for the abuse of personal data in the sense of opening false profiles? So it touches what you've pollemized as problematic, false profiles on social networks as something we've witnessed in the last days in the media and as something that's a general phenomenon as well as cyber bulling in the internet virtual space.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53049	I thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53050	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, you're right about this supplement that we even saw political scandals thanks to the theft of your personal identity and also there are programs for you, so there's a program in which I can stage any of you computer program conversation that you've talked to anyone and it's very sad that such conversations are used by the media, and I'm sorry to say that I've been able to say that some of the conversations that I've made with someone have made with the media are completely true, and there's a terrible damage done. And then I've pointed out this problem several times made my conversation with Vladimir Putin and my conversation with Donald Trump because it's possible, so you can in the computer program completely faithful and identical, these are programs that are free of charge on the line so do these fake profiles, conversations, evidence etc. And it should be prevented in some way. The Agency should conduct education as a user but perhaps so the media should simply stop buying into very cheap provocations because then evil blood is born, people are being attacked to file private charges, to do different costs to themselves and others, and in fact it is that maybe the agency could intervene preventively and then such things would be prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53051	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53052	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Bunjac, you yourself have cited a series of examples in which this agency should actually act and actually prevent them from jumping, and today we have discussed on the Media Committee as we unanimously supported this report so that we were united to the Director of the Agency in that there is a series of shortcomings in the Croatian legislative framework that might better prescribe the work of this Agency and help it in such a way that it goes in step with time and with the development of technologies in which the whole society is actually going, so of course we talked about not only the mention of colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic opening fake profiles and social networks but also that we should strengthen the collaboration of the Agency with the Ministry of Science and Education and enter directly into educational institutions and thus educate our children, teachers and parents on the use of personal data. Also, it should be said that as you say, Mr. Bunjac, and we all see it, I don't think there's any representative or advocate in this House who hasn't had any experience sharing his personal data in the public, regardless of what we publish on social networks, what we publish on our profiles still doesn't give media rights or anyone to abuse these data, regardless of what we're public figures, regardless of what we're dealing with politics. It's not the only activity to be protected. But here's some suggestions for the Agency, for the Ministry of Administration, and for empowering the Agency's further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53053	I would like to thank my colleague Sanja Putica on the line. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53054	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, there comes a time when we will have to deal with this problem more. The computer era opens up a whole series of very serious problems and bulling, but unfortunately and addiction, and abuse. Here, I was amazed when I read yesterday that the first clinic for computer addicts in Zagreb was opened, that there was such a hospital. And it's a very sensitive question for children. You have a general ban on those under 16 years of access to social networks, but I now believe as a teacher, and you as a teacher had experience that children of 6.7 years have profiles on social networks, and that there can be freely faked ages, that you can freely fake photography, that you can freely fake a name, invent any. And that data actually shows that as many as 10% of social media profiles are fake. So this is literally about 10s and 10s of millions of fake profiles. I don't mean at this point that we have to introduce some radical measures, I don't know maybe like China or Turkey at the time of the revolution, but in any case people have the right to privacy, people have the right to their own kind of peace and what is now done is literally, so we're on ice, we don't have practically peace for an hour during the day, and there's going to have to be some steps taken. I propose to the Personal Data Protection Agency that she be the leader in proposing such reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53055	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53056	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I will look first at the report that I consider to be well and transparently drawn up. What seems particularly commendable to me for the wider masses is that in a good way, along with the report itself, there are concrete examples and I think that these concrete examples, which are mentioned in the report, we all need to talk a lot more and talk a lot more about them so that our citizens can exist and be increasingly aware of the dangers that are becoming increasingly around them and the frauds that lurk behind every corner every day. Some of the most prominent and frequent injuries that occur and what people report to the Agency, which is commendable to the use of other people's personal data in order to make subscription contracts for the provision of services. Then, the use of other people's personal data in executive procedures in order to collect claims of the same name and last name. Here these are, according to the requirements addressed to the Agency, the topics need the greatest protection of rights and should be most talked about in order to make them conscious. What I noticed from the report and what I am very glad to see is that citizens are increasingly addressing the Agency and reporting to the Agency, which means that they are becoming increasingly aware of the dangers, that they recognize the Agency which is one of the first steps, the first institutions to address in their rights violations and from which they can seek their protection. When a little more detailed analysis of the content of the citizens' performances received, I noticed that the most common complaints were for illicit marketing, the publication of personal data on social networks. Here we are talking about falsifying various profiles on social networks, publishing personal data on websites without any legitimate purposes and legal basis and providing personal data to the Agency for the collection of claims. One of the opportunities that the Google opened last year, and I see that the agency has been involved in that is when citizens have the right to forget, means when they have the right to ask Google for information that has happened to be found on the Internet and which they think is not their place and maybe reveals their personal data here, the Agency is involved and if there are any problems and Google does not respect their demands I consider good things to go in this way and helps citizens to get their right to forget. What I also noticed in the tables in the Report is that last year the Agency had quite an increase in official supervision from 334 in 2015 to 736 and I consider this trend to be commendable, good and that the data would be as secure as they are collected hopefully in this increase and in this direction will continue to move on. One of the data in the report that is most stuck in my eye, which is a dramatic increase in public relations and awareness-raising of citizens. So we have information about a visit and a web tour. Pages and when comparing 2015 and 2016 we have an increase of 10 thousand 82 visits to 41 thousand 976 visits and 55 thousand 465 views on 215 thousand 305 views. In my opinion, this is about really improving the level of awareness of our citizens about the area of privacy and the protection of personal data. What I pointed out in my debate last year on the same report, and I am glad that the Agency's employees appreciated it, and that is that it is necessary to work as much as possible on citizens' education and citizens' awareness. I saw that in 2016 they dramatically increased their preventive educational activities and, as far as I can see for 2017, these activities are being planned even bigger and I hope that this figure that is mentioned in the report, which is envisaged, will be much greater because you see for yourself that people should be reminded daily of and awareness of their rights. Now I would like little to look at this report alone and this is the general Data Protection Regulation to be applied directly in the Republic of Croatia since 25 May 2018. This Regulation constitutes a major improvement in the protection of personal rights in the field of the European Union. By reading a little regulation that is already available and comparing the regulation with the current structure and current provisions that the Agency has regarding the tasks and powers of the current Data Protection Act at first sight, it is evident that the tasks and tasks that the Agency itself will be drastically greater after the application of this Regulation, the volume of their work will increase dramatically. Well, I'm just sorry I didn't get a chance to hear the preparations for the regulation now, so whether the Agency is ready, whether it's working on a team, and whether there will be enough resources and people so that Croatia doesn't have any sanctions by the European Union because of the possible misapplication of the regulation. I'd like to finish this debate with data relating to the safety of children on the Internet. As I said, we should take every opportunity to talk about, that people become as conscious as possible, and I will repeat the data that I have already repeated several times, which is that as far as children are on the Internet, more than half of them are on the Internet and we know that almost everyone is on their phones and computers on the Internet, so more than half of them put their personal photos, videos, personal cell numbers, their e-mail addresses, schools that attend. Five of them, five of them questioned, put in other people's personal data, and they're not even aware that they're not allowed to do it, and they're not asking for their permission. Every ten respondents experienced inconveniences and insults in real life after virtual publication of personal data, and unfortunately, this is the beginning of 2015 and 2016, I hope they are not so alarming now, but most of the 92% of the subjects who were not familiar with the activities and educational activities related to the protection of personal data and related to privacy on the Internet and did not know who they could possibly contact in the event of their personal data breach. Here, I hope the Agency will continue to work on the promotion, to be in the service of the citizens. You can see for yourself which problems with Internet access, which are now becoming more common and definitely not neglecting children and I think that children must be the focus of our education and warning to reduce these alarming numbers from time to time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53057	I thank my esteemed colleague Maria Puh. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On the board, we all agreed that the report was correct and we unanimously accepted that report. But today we live in an age of information and unfortunately Croatia has no idea what a society of information is and what it looks like in every segment of it. A banal example, the Agency's report says we were dealing with complaints about personal data injury because someone hurt personal data and wrote in the port how much someone owed water. The same person sued the Agency for calling some advertising agency her cell phone number and asking what you think about Ariel's latest version of washing, so he sued where my cell phone number came from, and that same person has no idea that there are two teenagers at home who wrote on Facebook and Instagram, put pictures where they took summers, winters, how many they have, where they live, what they have, where their cottages and absolutely all the other personal data that exist around them. This example that I'm doing a little bit of characterizing just to show that the basic problem with the protection of personal data is ignorance, a mere ignorance of what the data is, where it is, and what it all looks like together at all. Then we protect ourselves so that someone doesn't give us God's call on the phone, that someone doesn't find out our OIB or I don't know what on the other hand, everything is alive open and perfectly clear. I've been speaking to the board today and I'm going to say that and now, I think that the foundation that we need to start education and education in all directions, education from schools, education in the state administration, public administration, education among citizens because this is something new. Today, in Europe, the main topic of GDPR is the general law on the protection of personal data, which we will have to apply as such. We as a state are absolutely unprepared for something like that, not even as a state, as a society we're much more unprepared and we're going to have to do a lot of work on it but now I have to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53059	I thank my colleague Darko Paric for the replica. Answer from my colleague Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53060	So here's a colleague we definitely agree that education and awareness of people is something we definitely need and talk about it every day, I know that some of us already sound like parrots, but just as we don't repeat ourselves often to a smaller number of people we're going to get. Kids are definitely, parents don't even know what their kids are doing. Unfortunately, the fact is that most parents don't follow their children at all, children have profiles by facebuja, instagram, I don't know what's not there, even if I'm one of the younger MPs, I'm not definitely familiar with all these profiles. And when I look around and watch what kids do, if I were their mom or sister or something, I'd definitely react. So that's proof that parents, unfortunately, don't follow their children, don't watch what they're doing, they're not aware of the dangers the Internet poses. Everyone's focused on the dangers around them, but unfortunately lately, there's more dangers and more dangers, let's just say, they come from the Internet. You can never know what's going to happen. And as for the general regulation that I have mentioned that will begin to apply from next year, here I have seen little among other things and the structure of the Agency itself. According to the table on page 86, the Agency has all 27 employees. And watch out for these four informers. So in today's information age when we're all on the Internet, I definitely think we should take care not only of IT, but especially of the staff who will be in the agency, but also of their powers being much, much greater with the degree of the regulation in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53061	I thank my colleague Pooh for his reply. The next replica is a respected colleague of the Professor's. Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, you've been talking about the protection of Internet data, and in any case you need to talk about it, you need to take care and everything you've said stands. However, there is something else to add to that. We're talking about data that are visible, or what data we're aware of when abuse occurs. However, the Internet is like an ice dream. One week is on the surface, or what is seen, and what we don't see is far more dangerous is access to that personal data that someone then uses for their other purposes. And this agency can neither report nor have a partner to give her information about what's going on. Just if you ask one simple question, how many ministries, not to tell the state, there's a database, and where are those bases located, on which servers? As far as I know, these servers, if they're state-owned, then they don't have a certificate to have secure communications. Therefore, the problem is far more complex, the problem should first be put at the root on sound grounds that we know which unauthorized entry into these databases they have and personal data so that they should be protected. And I'm saying at this point, we're not even able to look at the dimensions of it, nor do we have institutions that could work on it, which could be dealt with, that is, by definition, by this agency can't necessarily deal with it, but it should have that information in order to give a complete picture of data protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53063	I thank my colleague Tudjman for his replica. Answer from my colleague Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53064	Well, here's a colleague I agree with you that there's actually only one tiny inch of ice that's visible as far as personal data is concerned. We all know that everywhere where personal data is collected and collected, there must be a host of personal data collections. Unfortunately, though, I believe that in frequent cases these collections are not protected in a sufficiently good way and that these computer systems that exist can unfortunately happen that other people have access to these data, that there can be unauthorized copying, downloading of these data and then selling data and dealing with it in some way. It brings me back to what I mentioned about the Agency's capacitation, so I think that maybe with such things when there's a personal data collection injury, when it happens that in a particular collection of data leaks or something, we'd have more informers who would be let's say in some way forensics who would be able to track a lead, who would know which person was actually responsible for breaking those personal data and so that those individuals would be sanctioned, because I don't know the personal data are the most valuable thing we have. And if our personal data leaks anywhere personally, I think our life can turn into a nightmare in one second. Unfortunately, the newspaper is getting more and more full every day, so here's definitely the Agency has a lot of work ahead of it and the Agency is waiting for a lot of work next year and I'm very interested in the next year's report and how this preparation for the implementation of the regulation will take place in the fifth month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53065	I thank my colleague Pooh for his reply. We move on to the next debate on behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, Honored counterpart Davor Milicevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53066	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Director, the Honorable Representative of the Government. An analysis of the Agency's report on the protection of personal data unfortunately comes up with devastating data that despite the increased activity of the Agency's work year by year, the number of rights requirements and legal opinions and representations of citizens from the field of protection of personal data are increasing. Comparing the number of cases recorded in the paper compared to 2015 when 1300 were recorded, a slight increase in the case was observed in 2016, and it was seen that during this reporting period, 1163 items which applied to the above mentioned rights were received and that during 2016 more in 209 similar cases were handled which were transferred to work in the previous 2015, which means that a total of 1382 cases were handled during that reporting period, from which 1196 were solved and 176 cases were transferred to work in 2017. These statistics clearly indicate that the agency worked well in the reporting period, i.e. in 2016, statistically managed to resolve the inflow of cases, and to reduce the backlogs of earlier years, which is in any case commendable and welcome. In particular, I would point out that the legislative framework relating to the protection of personal data amongst others and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Criminal Law, and the Criminal Law, therefore raises the number of rights requirements, then legal opinions, and citizens' representations from year to year. One of the answers certainly lies in the fact that citizens are aware of their rights, and on the other hand the defeating fact is that equal employers and various legal entities systematically violate the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia regarding the protection of personal data. A particular problem in the work of the Agency as mentioned in previous reports is the legal framework, i.e. legal solutions under other laws which are contrary to the Data Protection Act. In the context of such a claim, the Criminal Code, i.e. the infringement procedure in which the Agency appears as an authorised prosecutor and has the power to initiate a criminal proceedings before the competent criminal court for the brutal violation of the Personal Data Protection Act, in particular because of non-compliance with the prohibitions imposed by the Data Processing Agency established in those proceedings. In such a situation, the offence law requires an authorised prosecutor, specifically the Agency, to establish the exact address, residence and residence of the perpetrator, i.e. the seat of the perpetrator and hand him a written notice in a language which he understands, i.e. the Criminal Law prescribes the delivery of the notification in a formal sense, i.e. personal delivery to each defendant, and in practice often this is not possible to respect, and this often fails to meet the legal assumptions for the initiation of the infringement procedure. This particular example is the problem that needs to be solved by this House in a way that reaches for amending the provisions of the Criminal Code, because the Criminal Court has mechanisms and ways in which it can and must act and ensure orderly delivery, and thus more so as to indicate as another unnecessary formality in the conduct of the Agency because the court is in any case obliged to inform the perpetrator of the infringement of the content of the indictment. Analysing reports by the agency which is quite extensive and supported by statistical data, tables, and examples from practice, it can be concluded that during 2016, the Agency carried out its work neatly in accordance with the plans of the previous year increased the effectiveness of its work, noting that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been applied since 31 August 2017 in drawing up the following report for 2017, thereby removing the shortcomings mentioned in the opinion. Furthermore, the report also proposes concrete measures to be taken to improve the situation from year to year, and the number of cases has decreased rather than increased. I propose that this report be accepted and supported by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53067	I thank my esteemed colleague Davor Milicevic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Darko Paric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a few words. As I said in my replica, we live in a society of information today, and that information is colliding so quickly, there are so many that we simply do not know how to deal with it, nor do we deal with it, nor does this society have any idea how to deal with it at all. On the subject of information, we act much closer to it as if it were 1970, not 2017. We protect our names and last names that write on elevators, on walls, when they call phones, and on the other hand on the Internet, there's basically so much personal data that we're not even aware that they have what they have. One example, even though it's not in today, Multiplus plus or rather what's called a card card from Agrocora. Few people even know when you take that card that those people you gave the card to and when you drag it through the shops every day don't just know your name, last name and address where you live. They know everything you're buying. They know all that data. They know your life habits. They know your daily habits. It's all huge personal data. Such personal data are in some kind of theory, so-called. Great... They're used for large analysis of everything and everything, for prediction, for behavior, for whatever you want. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all absolutely personal data. I am deeply convinced that 90% of the minimal user of the multiple card card and similar cards has no idea that it is all there. And they have no idea because most of the time no one has explained anything to them. Our children in schools learn how to behave in traffic, how to safely cross the road, how to look after the red light, how to take care of the green light. But no one teaches them how to behave safely on the Internet, and unfortunately or fortunately today there are many more Internets than streets and cars. And unfortunately, or fortunately today, they can get hurt on that internet even much worse than on those streets than cars and other means of transport and statistics are more likely to get killed there than on the streets. Our education system, as my colleague Sanja Putica said a few minutes ago, has not yet recognized it as a problem, nor has he asked as a question, and definitely would have to. Because it's something that's not gonna come tomorrow, it's today, it's about us and we live with it. Every once in a while in the paper, you read about how someone lured someone, how someone made a profile, so the kids were messing with the guy, so some old man's doing this. He hides behind all of this, except for those diabolical intents of those who do this ignorance of those who are used by the social network and everything else. Furthermore, as has already been said, in Europe today is the main issue of GPR, i.e. the general law on the protection of personal data, which we will have to do from next year, as far as I know how to apply, which is rigorously changing some rules. In order for us to even adapt them to this whole story and work in the right way, I am convinced that the agency will have to change radically. But not only does he change, but he's going to have to hire a lot of new people who are going to be able to hand out or handle all these new rules as they are. Because what I understand is already in the last few reports to the Personal Data Protection Agency, they do what they can in the given conditions. More than that, I hardly can. But I think at this point in time, the government must simply notice and realize that some moment, when things break to the other side, and that it will have to do a lot more, to strengthen, train the agency to work in the other direction and start expanding its work. Because it's just me that there are two ways we can come to be at a level or that we can deal with these problems, one first and primary education, education at all levels. Since school, through public administration, because I once said it and I'm going to say it again, for a time I worked in the government, and that's when I realized that the Personal Data Protection Act, the most used law that was used not to do anything. Because whenever someone didn't want to do something, they would say it's the opposite of the Personal Data Protection Act, even though they had no idea whether it was the opposite or not, but it was an excellent excuse not to do anything. But, definitely, education, first of all children, teachers, parents, and frankly speaking to a complete citizen. Because this is a new age, with which some people deal well, some of them brilliantly, and some of them are not up to it. You have situations where parents have no idea about the Internet, kids know a lot more than they do, but kids don't know, some other life stuff so they get stuck or get in trouble. And the other thing that moved me to come to this pay phone, to say something, to mention it to the IT guys. There's a huge problem. In fact, the problem is that the public administration of the Republic of Croatia, for many years now, has not known what IT is. He doesn't even recognize the position of IT in any ministry, office or anything. He does not recognize, at all, what is the benefit of a “informatist. ” And he doesn't even recognize how much they work, how important they are there, and how much damage they've done today if they stop working. I assure you that if today all the informers, who work only in the public administration, not further than that, decided to stop working, shut down what they're working with, the state would stop, instantly and no one would run it, except for those same informers. And these informers that we don't even recognize as such are people who work in all ministries in the most basic or lowest organisational units, work for the lowest wages, are highly underpaid, and in some hierarchy, the ministry, you need to look for them... and everyone else, and it's really hard for them to work like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were here before summer, if I recall, discussing exactly how you opened a competition for an informer and no one answered. No one answered, because it was a workplace, which was let's say with the coefficients at the bottom and not a single informer who graduated from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering or a similar IT college will come to work for that salary. And this is all I'm saying to point out the problem, that the Republic of Croatia, the public administration, if it wants to step up with modern society, with data protection, with electronic services, with electronic services, with electronic administration, will have to radically begin to change the position and status of IT staff, employees and employees in ministries, offices and everything else. Because these people, unfortunately, or fortunately today, have very great competences and knowledge in these very areas. Information isn't old science, but it's developing so terribly exponentially fast, it's very hard to track. It's no wonder the administration is having a hard time dealing with it. But IT experts are people who will generally be very soon if we want to move forward, if we want to be a modern EU state, we need to be recognized in the bodies of the state administration, as people who are very important, as people who really carry a lot of things. And if the state wants and wants to hire high-quality people from IT sectors in ministries and all other bodies, it will have to change the standards by which they will value their work, it literally means their salaries, their status in ministries and all the work they do. Here's so much from me, I thank you. And let me just say, that we supported your report and the club will support it and tomorrow... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53069	I thank my colleague Darko Parisic for this debate. We move on to the next debate, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajduković, is not present, a respected colleague of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53070	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Rajkovich's esteemed director. I'll be very brief. As far as the Agency's report is concerned, it is as correct as it was last year and as it is every year, and perhaps part of my exposure that will be very short on counterpart Parić and the new threats and threats that come to us in the virtual space and which concern, in particular, the rights of children and their own, therefore, their protection. What is very important to me is to establish better cooperation between the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and the Ministry of the Interior, especially in tracking new applications, and we see that new applications are coming on almost weekly and monthly basis that are easily available on Google Story, on the web Story and on Doogle Play. So kids can take them off normally, parents can control it and they don't have to. These applications are over, some of them are very dangerous and they are almost oasis for abuse and violence. And even various forms of sexual abuse if there is a realisation of a meeting that starts with a particular chat, communication, etc. You give instructions in your report given by companies such as Facebook and Google and some providers etc. However, this is not sufficiently regulated in our space and this set of rules concerns a set of rules of business for these companies, and it does not actually protect enough children in terms of this legislative framework despite our efforts to implement as many conventions and directives as possible. So the question is how many children are educated. I see you've taken a good deal on this issue, that's what my colleague Pooh noticed that you've actually held a significant number of educations. I followed what was happening in the Zagreb area and I see that it is over, that about 1,000 students at that critical age of the third and fourth classes and it is certainly commendable. But the question is what is with these other students who have not passed education, what is the co-operation of HACOM's Personal Data Protection Agency and the Ministry of the Interior as key institutions for the prevention of cyber Bullying and prevention, so this virtual violence and all forms that threaten children. The question is how many children after these educations are really familiar with those possibilities of eradicating false profiles, from posting photos exclusively with the approval of the person whose photo is published. The question is, what about the servers outside the EU, what is your agency's collaboration with CARNET and, let's say, with a heart and some other questions. But if I were not longer, I should perhaps say clearly that despite all these threats and threats that you are dealing with as an agency, there may not be a burning out loud and clear statement that there is a ban on proposing to meet children under 15 years of age online. And it kind of seems to me that the whole time that finding and that fact are being promoted. By e-mail, therefore, and all forms of electronic communication for the purpose of entry, therefore, in relation to a child who can ultimately end up being abused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53071	I thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53072	My colleagues, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, will refer to the part of your discussion in which you spoke about cyber violence, violence, in particular, so you pointed out the importance of prevention and then the roles of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data when it comes to prevention from various forms of virtual violence, especially virtual violence against children. In fact, today we are witnesses I would say the daily rise of cyber violence against children, and also the fact that, so I would say almost on a weekly basis new, new and new applications intended therefore primarily for children among whom some of them are very, very dangerous. And it just kind of seems to me that this phenomenon needs to put a special emphasis and special attention should be put on and I agree with you, so on education and children and parents and in general society about the emergence of these applications. Of course, about their perilousness for children and the fact that we maltenes every week have some kind of new app that somewhere in the cyber world pops up and rarely happens that we're not even able to identify it, let alone recognize the destruction of its activities on children.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53073	I thank my colleague Bedekovic. Answer, distinguished colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53074	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bedekovic, you've noticed well. Indeed, new applications are developing on a daily basis and on a weekly basis. Some have a malicious tendency, as I mentioned. There was a single application in the foreign press recently, I think it's called SARAH in Arabic. The word actually ended up on the cover of the media, and it has only been available in Europe since June of this year, and it was primarily in Africa and that continent. Why this application as a fire has spread and has actually become one of the three biggest apps from Google Play and Upstore in Europe because it is free. And in a very short time it actually spread, the media had headlines that spread like a fire. And it's that it's an anonymous correspondence service that can be fully legitimately registered as a 9-year-old and there's absolutely no way to check that it's a 9-year-old kid and communicates with a man of 50, 60,70 etc. which can essentially have a malicious purpose. So the services of others have some possibility of change, this SARA, which has been available in our space since June of this year, has absolutely no possibility of checking. Both many children and parents have expressed great concern and concern, and there have been some cases, that this platform has actually become an ideal platform for Internet abuse. That for spreading hate speech, threats and... Bulling, so it's one of the examples of new applications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53075	I thank my colleague, Petriyevčen Vuksanovic, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, the daily development of the number of applications, programs and everything else on the Internet is so huge and radical that there is no agency, ministry or state that will monitor, prevent, protect, and I don't know what to do. All these apps are written by some little disclemer di explaining that they protect themselves from everything, that you're familiar with everything, everyone says yes and life goes on. The only place to educate children about all possible dangers ahead of them is school, kindergarten, elementary and high school, I guess it's long and late. And if we want to do anything meaningful and smart, then we need to explain to those children exactly in those places, which are shortages, dangers, the benefits of today's society of the world, the Internet and everything around them. And if you just want a little plastic example of what it looks like today. Today it is regulated by someone's internet access, online behaviour and everything else in Croatia, for children and everyone else in Croatia as if we decided that in Croatia no longer... The car, the road planes, the buses, the buggers and everything that has 2, 4 and more cars, should only have it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've got a car, you're sitting down and you're driving. You can imagine that Croatia would look like only 10 days from now if we let everyone drive everything available to them overnight, everything they can get, borrow, buy anything else. However, since cars have been around for a very long time, we have managed to regulate everything through it for a very long time, so there are car schools, tests and all the other instructors, cars and everyone learns to drive, check their laying and then let the relatively prepared drivers go, and it all looks okay. It's all the other way around on the Internet. You can't have a school to use the Internet, but you can teach kids how to use the Internet properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53077	I thank my fellow Parish. Answer, dear colleague of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53078	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Paric, I agree with most of everything, in fact with everything you've said, what you're thinking about is, in fact, a logical direction of thinking, and I should think seriously about, in fact, that activities relating to the safety and protection of children on the Internet, in some way also involve the curricula and the programme, and in particular, perhaps in the subject of information. It seems to me that it's completely too much and legitimate thinking and going in this direction to keep up with these threats and threats coming from outside. But not only the school, but all of these institutions, if we're talking about higher education, then it's the heart and Carnet, and you're headed into trouble, and the MUP is from one side, and the agency is for citizenship. So, each one of you from your own circle. And what might also be convenient to mention the order of the Ministry of the Interior button, which somehow went under the radar, and I didn't really, I didn't really notice that at all the bells given in the media, I think it's a very useful app, which was made for relatively cheap money, and it actually works very well. I've seen that on the central state portal, and you've been involved in the design of the portal, it's also a link to that order button. And I think it's an ideal way for him to report every suspicion of abuse, and in fact, I don't think there's enough public knowledge of that information at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53079	I thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, for this answer. This concludes the debate, thanks to the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency Mr. Anti Rajkovičin for his explanation. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Administration, Mr. Darko Nekic. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53080	The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2016 shall report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for the year 2016. The applicant is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. This report shall be adopted on the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency for 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 108, 10 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion proposed by the parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53081	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on quality and logistics in health care, first reading, P.Z. No. 81 The applicant shall be the SDP Representatives Club pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 182 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this legislative proposal will take place under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to first reading. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I call upon the representatives of the motionor, a respected colleague of Sinish Vargo, to give us an additional explanation of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, here is the proposal of the Health Quality and Logistics Act, in the first reading and given the time and hour, the time of the day when we do this, I will really not owe you and be extravagant, but I think I am obliged to tell the Genesis, the Law itself, namely 2007 is the first time a quality management system has been established in Croatian healthcare and amendments and additions to the 2011 Act that is still valid today. The Agency for Quality Health and Social Care in the Republic of Croatia was founded, however, unfortunately, the application of the law itself had a result, almost exclusively of salary payments, employees themselves, agencies themselves, namely, the basic activity of the Agency itself is accreditation of health institutions and I regret to say that the result of the work and the Agency that 0 public health hospitals in the Republic of Croatia have been accredited to date and the accreditation procedure itself in no hospital has actually been initiated. This has arisen for several reasons, for other reasons that I can detect since I am also licensed by European society, the European Health Organization is in Brussels as a quality manager and a quality auditor and I know that my colleagues who are holders of the same licence are not one of the employees of the Agency, actually do not work in the Agency persons who have the authority to manage quality as such, any business subject and neither in health. When we look at the genesis itself and the problem that we're talking about here that laymanically might express ourselves then we say that the health and health of the nation on the one hand is very important to all of us but by the state systematically from over, in many years no matter who is in power over many years is neglected what by the budget makes by the legislation. And we have a situation today as we do that our public health indicators are extremely poor on the results of the work we see that, for example, we have high prevalence, let's say, breast cancer is in the Republic of Croatia at European Union level, but the mortality and number of women who died of this same disease is unfortunately very high and we are here at the bottom of Europe after the achievement. It is the work of the Croatian Institute of Public Health is to record these phenomena, but the Health Protection Quality Agency is a job to improve the system, to fix these phenomena, but there is no activity by the agency itself. For this reason and knowing all the opportunities in the health care system and from the professional management aspect, I took a sovereign approach to this job, formed a team of people who made a very logical apolitical political impenetrable ideological law, it was almost 100% of the non-party persons who wrote the bill. And what you have in front of you is a law that regulates several areas and unites all those functions of governance in the health care system that are not regulated today or touched on the day-to-day performance of the duties itself in relation to the provision of health services. When we talk about the principles of achieving quality health care, they are at the same time known and known, we know how weak they are. Only the Ministry within its bodies and the manner in which it is established as a body of the State Administration does not have a body dealing with the quality of health care and does not carry out a risk analysis and is therefore talking about the formation of a national commission which could directly be managed by the Minister himself that he knows very well and manages those areas that are good and should be improved but also those that are worse and which should be abolished. The health care agency is being transformed, transformed into the Health Quality and Logistics Agency, according to this law two agencies are uniting together, the Health Safety Quality Agency and Social Protection Agency is uniting itself with the Telemedicine Agency. The Agency for Telemedicine is a very well-organised and very well-functioning agency, however, the scope of work and day-to-day activities is much less than the potential of the agency itself and the merger of management and the two agencies are considered to be much more encouraging and exploiting both agencies' capacities together to improve the quality of health care. In fact, telemedicine as one of the segments E health is the backbone and priority number one of the National Health Development Strategy until 2020, where the number one health information is priority and through information, we come to the full improvement and achievement of the other six priorities of the National Strategy itself. The assessment of health technologies is something that is still being done by HTA as one of the international methodologies, there are members of all international bodies especially at European level for information exchange, but it is under-capacitated and it needs much more delegation of powers to the agency itself and that part of the work so that the Croatian Health Insurance and Health Ministry can make qualified decisions when planning investments, in the purchase of new medicines and new medical technologies. The issue of logistics in health care, which is not novelty which is not addressed or partially covered today, is that in the Ministry of Health which at the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which in this way is the unifying and logistics in health care is primarily the issue of purchasing new equipment, investing and developing human resources in health care, the issue of building management and maintaining facilities in the health system and all of what concerns infrastructure and equipment itself, and human resources when it is managed in a unique place in a unique way can be gained a much better effect. Finally, when we talk about the accreditation process itself, we today model that we have a Croatian accreditation standard that has once again not been implemented in any Croatian hospital, it is about the transformation of the three degrees of the accreditation procedure itself where C achieved a hospital certificate that has laid down minimum technical conditions and what is expected according to a minimum standard that a health institution can even be called a health institution would be surprised at how many health institutions in the Republic of Croatia base and simple standards today cannot be respected. But it has to move in the direction of what the citizens are doing, which is for the safety and functioning of the health system. Levels B and AB. B is the hospital that entered the international accreditation process, where many of the shops were already made through the C level, establishing the Quality Committee. The definition of business processes and methods for improving them and ultimately the hospital that is accredited with A category means that it has achieved international accreditation, which is particularly important not only for Croatian citizens as a measure of patient safety and guarantees of high quality health care, but also opens a great opportunity because health tourism as an international tourism branch, Croatia as a tourist destination is very interested in filling the winter period with new tourists, i.e. patients. But I'm primarily talking about a public health sector that, we know how much money is missing and we have this space for an annual income of about 800 million kuna through income in health tourism in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, that figure is far, far smaller today. But whatever we don't have yet of accreditation we have certain areas in the Republic of Croatia which by force of opportunity, and what... The procedures and international agreements already today provide health tourism services primarily when we speak in the geographical location of KBC Split, the hospitals Šibenik, Zadar, Pula, Dubrovnik and KBC Rijeka are providing health tourism services due to the large number of tourists located in their areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also, for example, KBC Zagreb has an agreement with the health insurance of the Republic of Serbia di patients who cannot perform... operations in Serbia themselves come electively in groups to perform the procedure in the Republic of Croatia and that is then the income of the KBC Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have these controversial small revenues that we have today in the health care system on such examples of hospital accreditation and raising to a higher level of calculation that we have potential in the public sector of around 800 million kuna, and in the private sector about 1.1 billion kuna. When we sum up all possible revenues from health tourism, from clinical studies, we are talking from EU funds about the growth of GDP, or gross domestic health sector RH product around 0.6% from one of our sectors alone. Therefore, the great economic potential, however, must be made an organisational step. The organisational form today gives the results as it gives, however, once again the apolitical, professional proposal of the law gives room for a significant improvement in the health system that here I can say if you don't want to do it for the sake of the citizens, if you don't want to do it for your neighbours, then raise your hand for this law and yourself because this law, when you become patients, makes a safe system of health, gives you a greater opportunity to make your treatment as fast, painless, more meaningful, for HZZO as cheap as possible and for you as patients as possible. So here's the point: once again, it's a matter of first reading the law. I call on all interested parliamentary deputies and MPs to submit amendments. I am open to all discussions and questions and clarifications of the bill itself and prove that you want this society well and that you care about the Croatian health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53083	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sinishi Vargi. We have one replica. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53084	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As with the law that we have recently proposed here, the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse where one of the reasons why they reject our proposal is, although I expect it to be high-quality today, to say from the Ministry that our proposal is high-quality. The justification was that the ministry intends to pass the same law according to its annual plan of normative activities. However, if we look at a recent report on the implementation of the Government in the field of normative activities, we can see that the Ministry of Health has not achieved its plan either with June, let alone that it will achieve what it says in their opinion, a plan of activity in the fourth quarter. So, do you think it's even possible for them to pass the Law on drug abuse and the Law on logistics as a parallel to our law, and the proof that they are unable to do so among other things is because you were talking about quality and logistics enabling and withdrawing European funds only one example. So, in your mandate, you have ensured that we withdraw 40m euros from EU funds for an eHealth project involving e-HZZO, e-hospitals, e-routines, e-medicines. To this day, Mr. Secretary of State, his minister was unable to prepare a single project. The only project that exists is the HZZO that you prepared throughout 2015. It is only proof of how irresponsible they are to the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53085	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Comrade Varga's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53086	I'm thanking you. Here we have the secretary of state, Mr. Dulibic. After a public debate, after the debate we had on the Committee on Legislatives, I asked whether a bet would be accepted whether, in accordance with the plan for the normative activity of the ministry, this law would be passed by the Government until 31.12.2107. He didn't take the bet. So I think the ministry itself believes it won't work. Namely, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse with Secretary of State Plazonic, I have a similar bet. He bet, yet he accepted the bet that the law would be passed by 31.12. However, we see from the portal e-consultation that neither the thesis of the law is yet to be published, and we are in the middle of the tenth month. Therefore, it is almost illusory that this law will also be passed this year. All laws stemming from the work of the Ministry of Health, i.e. health care, are necessary for Croatian citizens as well. Here, I appeal to the Ministry itself that they are doing legislative activity much faster and more effectively. We see that a famous 49 members are formed in the Committee for the Writing of the New Health Protection Law. An extremely heterogeneous group with a lot of interests that are described inside. However, what is the fact that this working group does not start working with some proposal and a basic document, but begins with an empty piece of paper. Therefore, it is my assumption that the Health Protection Act will not be seen in this term of office of this government, if it will continue in this manner of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53087	I thank my colleague Varga for this answer. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you. I call on the government's representative, the respected secretary of state, Mr Tomislav Dulibic to give us an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53088	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable parliamentary representatives, means the proposal of the Law on logistics, quality and health care, it is prescribed that the future agency, watch this now, manage health infrastructure, human resources in health care, implement a united and public procurement of health institutions and a comprehensive eHealth system. So how many people should we hire for that, how much budget and everything. We believe that this is not about legal normative activity, but we do not conjecturely agree with the establishment of such an agency in this way. As for our legal normative activities here today we had water for human consumption, which completed the second reading, as well as all other laws, the Health Protection Act will be passed no matter how many members of the working group, as of Monday we start intensively with the daily meetings of that working group. Yeah, just a little bit longer, it's still for, so it's about funds. So, in this term in the next year, we have agreed nearly 2 billion funds from EU funds, which for day-to-day hospitals, day-to-day surgery, which for group 2 of the expensive equipment, 268 million kn, for day-to-day surgery, 860 million kuna. As for these e-projects, we e-HZZO 134 million kn reported in June, is now in preparation of the e- hospital, early 2018. And the other projects are going in their plan. So we used all possible funds from the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53089	I thank the Secretary of State, the Honorable Mr Tomislav Dulibic. We have two replicas, a respected colleague of Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53090	I'm thanking you. The point is, I've been running the health system for 18 years now. I'm a professional, I have degrees and postgraduate studies completed from that area. Simply, when we talk about this area, I am looking for partners, who understand, analyze the current situation, make suggestions to improve and implement this solution. Unfortunately, from the current establishment of the Ministry of Health, this simply does not come out and we see it from February 2016 in continuity and there is simply no production of any law or sublegal acts concerning the health of the nation, groups, families, individuals. And that's something that's... and I expect and from day one I offer my help if, with advice, with my experience, to speed up this process, however, there is that hand provided remains hanging, or not accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The agency itself and its part-time work, when we had the European semester at our place, has repeatedly been said, united public procurement, as you do in the Republic of Croatia is not good, it is bad, you have to centralize it into one agency, any. Is it at the Ministry of Health, Health, is it at the Croatian Institute of Public Health, is it for HZZO, dear God anyway, but it must be centralized. But since public procurement in the health care system concerns about 5 billion kn, the value of drugs, about 3 billion kn, the value of consumer medical material, and even if others were to be combined I believe that they would come to an value of nearly 10 billion kn of goods and services, I certainly think it deserves one agency, continuously, to deal with the issue of public procurement in the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53091	I would like to thank my colleague Vargi, next replica, dear colleague Željko Jovanoic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53092	Thank you very much. So, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was written on March 23rd 2017, I literally quote, questions that are being edited in the proposal, signed by Mr Plenkovic, he is your boss, Mr Dulibic, if I am not mistaken, and you said that it is not exactly an explanation why the law is not being passed. So there's no reason for normative acts. And in the opinion signed by Mr Plenkovic, he writes, the issue being regulated by the draft health quality and logistics law, with the final proposal of the law, is planned in the annual plan of the normal activity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for 2017 in the 4th quarter of 2017 and that is why our law is being rejected. And by all accounts, you're not going to pass an adequate law in the meantime. And of course, our law clearly states that to implement the law, there will be no effect on the state budget, given that all existing human resources and the costs necessary for the implementation of this law will be redistributed to the internal redistribution and there will be no need for additional resources. So your arguments are totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53093	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for his reply, the State Secretary, Mr Dulibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliamentarian, I said the following, not only is it not solved by the normative plan of activity, but also when it is resolved, we will address these issues from this plan in our normative activities but it will not be taken into account in a way that there will be a Quality and Logistics Agency in health with all the detours that you have suggested, to be a little clearer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53095	I thank you for your response to Mr Tomislav Dulibic, the Honorable Secretary of State. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, respected representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's not present. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, dear colleague Kreso Beljak. He's not present. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Most esteemed colleague Ines Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53096	Thank you. Mr. President, the respected legislators, the esteemed MPs! I'll brief on this law on behalf of the Independent Lists Bridge and on the quality of health care. Therefore, the quality of healthcare can be described as the degree to which health services provided in accordance with current professional knowledge increase the likelihood of the outcome of desired results. The World Health Organization defines the quality of health services as a degree of achievement of the health system objectives that lead to health improvement and meet the needs and expectations of the population. Therefore, improving the quality of the health system is an essential part of health policy. The main dimensions of health care and general health systems are efficiency, efficiency, safety, equality, eligibility, timeliness, acceptability, responsibility, satisfaction, patient focus, improvement, continuity of care and others. And the quality of health care should finally be observed three different views, patient's, professional and managemental. Patients seek quality service, professionals tend to meet patient needs as well as to perform the procedures needed to provide quality services as correctly and properly as possible. Therefore, the quality of management includes then effective and effective use of available resources to meet the needs of patients. Today we can essentially say that the European Union's health care is at a high level but there is also an inequality of availability of quality and an underdeveloped quality improvement strategy within the European Union itself. It is similar with certain regions in Croatia as we have different quality in different hospitals. Only a part of the member states have a longer tradition of quality management in Europe and a regulated legal framework that regulates the quality issue and our country is among those where we still cannot say that it is regulated. In order to improve the quality of health care and functioning of the entire health system, it is therefore necessary to include further development and installation of standards and quality in the business of health institutions, improving information systems as a means of promoting quality, functioning of the entire system, ensuring sufficient financial resources, investing in prevention, development of quality indicators and monitoring systems to facilitate rapid reporting. It is therefore important to identify and respect different quality dimensions and set realistic expectations and to create a balanced health system according to them. In order to achieve sustainability of quality and all equally available healthcare in 2007, the Health Care and Health Care Act of the Agency for Quality and Accreditation in Health received its first outlines and eventually came to life in 2011 but did not revive its part-time work. In front of us is the proposal for a law on quality and logistics in health, which has passed a consultation in 2015 during former Minister Varga and which since then has actually not been formed and placed on our benches, we are reading it here today as a proposal from the SDP Club, it was the proposal of the then Minister of Health. The bridge of independent lists will not support this law because this law gives the Agency too much authority and it is not human or financial teamed for it. She has not yet succeeded in what she was set up to spend, nor her powers to complete the work we have given them. What's credentials? So, the accreditation procedure she was supposed to carry out, we heard former Minister Vargo, the accreditation procedure was ultimately not carried out in any hospital. The accreditation process allows to confirm the levels of adoption of the basic standards of quality of health care. How to strengthen this Agency? The real question is why the Ministry of Health should move and give power to the Agency, which will also deal with specialisations, public procurement, and so on. I don't know if you've read it carefully, but it's absolutely unacceptable for us to put us from the ministry in one agency at the moment, and she's already not doing her job, and we're giving this agency the power to develop a plan of specialist training for doctors, organise the implementation of specialist training of healthcare professionals, issue solutions on the approval of specializations and narrow specializations, doctors of dental medicine, masters of pharmacies etc., determines the termination of specialization and change of mentors, plan and implement joint public procurement for all healthcare providers, to plan needs for the construction and renewal of health institutions. It becomes practically a new ministry. According to the way we are here, as we see it written, manages and maintains health facilities, reconstructing health facilities, planning and rationalising, plans to fully integrate one of the most successful Croatian telemedicine institutions. I think it's human and financially impossible within this agency, unless we move two-thirds of the Ministry of Health into that Agency and the question is why. This agency has what it is responsible for and that is to carry out accreditation and all that is recorded is what it should have done so far. Therefore, guidance on patients, teamwork, understanding of systems and processes, and adapting to change should be accepted as the basic principles of increasing and maintaining quality. The improvement of the work of the Health Quality and Logistics Agency is an absolute priority and should also be supported by the Ministry of Health, and we should insist on this because all stakeholders of the health system expect both patients and professionals and management structure. The bridge of independent lists will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53097	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. We have one replica. Dear colleague Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53098	Thank you. Although it was said to be spoken on behalf of the Most, the Most Independent Lists Bridge is read that it is an interesting group of associations of hospital doctors who require that these functional activities that the Agency has to transfer to the Croatian medical chamber. It's with anyone who's at any stage of management, political, any other had any reputation and a view of the health care system with a little more than the hospital's department doctor will see that it absolutely can't be put in a situation to keep the sheep wolf safe. Therefore, either this job will continue to be done by the Ministry of Health or will be done by the Agency. But to transfer it to the Croatian medical chamber, I personally find it unacceptable and what Minister Kujundzic has done in this matter, I do not know exactly. You were somewhat contradictory in your presentation where you first said that the Quality and Logistics Agency is unnecessary and then you said that the Quality and Logistics Agency should be improved. Therefore, you have to state whether or not you want the Agency itself. Whether it is necessary to transfer personnel from the Ministry of Health, the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, of course, yes, because these are all institutions that are under the supervision of the Ministry of Health and what is particularly important is that agencies are subject to the pay coefficient policy differently and that they can then get a better quality and better fit for employment in the agencies themselves because we are not then related to the pay policy in public and state services. So, you can get a better fit, you can team up, from the existing resources in the health system we have enough of them, no need for new employment, existing people can do all that work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53099	I thank my colleagues, Vargi. Reply colleague Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53100	Dear colleague Varga, as I have many times defended the absolute position of the doctor, the attitude of those who need to exercise health care, and I am sorry that you mention here the narrow group of Croatian Association of Hospital Doctors which I did not mention, as I did not mention the Croatian medical chamber. I said that the Agency exists, the Agency needs to be improved, it needs to be supported to determine what it is obliged to do and not to give it much greater, huge practical powers, powers currently exercised by the Ministry of Health so that it continues to work and so far has not justified its work. I think the Agency should exist but it should also be tried in any way to improve her work. I am sorry that you, a doctor, means a roof doctoral organisation of the Croatian medical chamber, think of it as some kind of organization that is fighting a doctor, against certain other groups, against citizens that means a doctor, this roof society is someone who and you and the current minister and any future minister will warn of everything they think is better and should contribute to a better quality health system. At this point I am sorry that you are prejudged and that you are saying that this is something that is actually wanted to transfer power to the Croatian medical chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53101	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Strenja-Linić. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, esteemed colleague Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53102	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Proposal for a law on quality and logistics in health care, with the final proposal for a law directed to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP's Club of Representatives by act of 2 February 2017, with the proposal to comply with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Republic of Croatia at its session on 27 March 2017 on the Proposal for a Law on Quality and Logistics in Health, with the Final Proposal of the Law, gives the following opinion: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal", we have heard this already known but the improvement of health policy must be the result of support, quality in the health system. The proposer of this law also explains the reason for the adoption of the law. So you'll hear why I'm telling you now. The reason for the adoption of the Health Quality and Logistics Act is the introduction of a more efficient comprehensive system of measures to improve the quality of health care in the Republic of Croatia, certification of health institutions, companies and private health professionals who carry out health care activities and coordination, management of logistics in health care, management of health infrastructure and human resources in health care, implementation of a united public procurement of health institutions, establishment of a comprehensive system of E health and telemedicine and M medicine. Former Minister Varga was in Washington in 2014 for counselling M Health, M Health in America where he expressed our views and development in e- and telemedicine and it was well accepted. So all to achieve the highest level of patient safety and risk reduction for their life and health. The law also seeks to transpose, in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, Directive 2011/24EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe of 9 March 2011 on the application of patients' rights in cross-border and health care. That works now. There are European cards that many who work in practice see, experience, and that part works more or less. Namely, the issues covered by the draft of this law are planned in the Annual Plan for the Standard Activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. I believe he has two months, so we will see and arrange this in the Health Protection Act, the Data and Information Act in Health, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Social Care Act. In accordance with the annual plan of the fourth quarter of 2017, the adoption of the Health Protection Act is envisaged to regulate human resources management and specialist training of healthcare professionals related to part of the legislative proposal governing the eHealth system. The Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the annual plan also provides for the adoption of the Health Data and Information Act in the 4th quarter of 2018. In particular, the Government notes that in the 4th quarter of 2017, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Social Care Act is planned to regulate, among other things, the quality system in the field of health care. It's final. The Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that, with regard to the proposal for a law on quality and logistics in health with a final draft of the law, as well as an insight into the Law on Construction, the work of the ministries and other bodies of the state administration, which is, in Article 23, part of the work of the Ministry of Health, a lack of harmonisation of the legal proposal with the part-time work of the Ministry of Health and is therefore, partly not accepted by the Government. But when drafting planned laws, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider the proposals contained in the proposed law in question so that many views may also be incorporated into the future law. All stakeholders in the healthcare system must accept that the public health quality is directly affected by the overall economic situation of each country. The health system should therefore be seen together with all other conditions of social, social and economic policy. So health reform is primarily a political decision that involves a broad political agreement between all stakeholders in the health system. Health debt today amounts to around 4 billion kunas, health costs rise year by year due to new and expensive medical procedures and smart medicines. In the last 10 years, 17 and a half billion kuna has been invested in the health care system. In the name of protected groups, the state must pay 4.1 billion kuna annually. Only a 1.4 security guard pays for his health insurance, and the rest is paid for by the state. Health costs the circus 24 billion kuna a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53103	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Kirin, for this debate. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53104	Thank you. Otherwise, if you have not noticed on behalf of three clubs, MOST Club, SDP Club and HDZ Club, all students or doctors of the Medical Faculty in Rijeka will be talking about the quality of the Medical Faculty in Rijeka. And here I am, as an individual debate, also from Rijeka. Comrade Kirin, here you have also said that the reason is the normative plan that will be adopted by the end of the year. You're an optimist. Unfortunately, I don't share your optimism, but I can help you and your government and your minister simply rewrite our law. We don't mind. Let them copy it, and we can adopt it another time. That it is necessary you were talking about limited resources available to health care, and health care is expensive. We've seen from HZZO data that last year alone, 10% more funds were spent on drugs. But here's a subject that's certainly very important and that's talking about not spending money in a way that's satisfactory, and it's just about you, for example, you're a hospital doctor. According to data that I have significant resources provided in Mr Varga's mandate, the continued education of healthcare professionals is worth 30m euros. I stress 30 million euros. Of these 30m euros, only 30m kunas are currently agreed. So, 30 million euros, and only 30 million kunas were agreed to perfect the doctor of family medicine with more than 2 years of delay. But what about the doctors at the hospital? What about them? Ask your secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53105	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. My colleague Kirin's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53106	I don't know, and I don't have that information, but there's no reason to doubt it. All I know is that as far as working in the hospital service is concerned, 10% of the medicines have been spent, and in the hospital, i.e. complete in Croatian health care, 5.8 billion kuna has been spent. As for help, in any case, I believe that help is always welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53107	I thank my colleague Kirina for her reply. Next replica, dear colleague Sinisha Varaga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53108	Thank you, Vice President. Here, fellow Kirin, I will express myself to you in a very medical way, namely, a little bit when I see the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then we talk about this famous trio of power, we talk about the judgmental, we talk about legislative and we talk about executive power. We are in a House dealing with legislative authority. In front of us, we have a law that produced, who? Legislative power. It is also the custom to ask, purely medically, for a second opinion in the second camp, i.e. executive power. They give a positive or negative opinion, which, in the same way as the second opinion, binds you as a doctor to nothing, but says medicine. He says think with your head, overcome all symptoms, overcome differentially and diagnostically, which else can be and bring a clinical court. I from your exposure, don't be angry, I've got the impression that your clinical court, that this law is good. However, you will operate differently on this patient than your court tells you. It is now a little problematic in that segment that I ask all MPs to emancipate themselves in their legislative role, to propose laws, to pass laws, which are the well-being of citizens, and not what is politically agreed at the level of the executive authority on a daily basis. Therefore, here I am, once again saying and thanking you for saying that any help is welcome, I am offering my help, I absolutely will not object, as my colleague Jovanovic said, that adnomins from letters to letters are attributed to the whole law, that I, not even, will not be attributing to the MP. Because I think it's a good law for Croatian citizens and I need to see the light of day as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53109	Thank you, colleague Vargi, for your answer, colleague Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53110	Here's the Honorable representative Varga, in one part I said that certain parts of your law might be implemented in a new law, or, of course, will be critically judged to what extent, and for cooperation, you know, it's the same, I can't judge about it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53111	I thank my colleague Kirina for her reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, respected colleague Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53112	I would like to say that this legislative proposal is an attempt to advance the existing legislative framework, in order to ensure everyone's what stands in the Constitution, which is a guaranteed right, to quality health care. We believe that this law can contribute to the establishment, more efficient and comprehensive system of measures to improve the quality of health care in the Republic of Croatia, in several ways, which this law deals with very specifically and in detail. This is the introduction as we have heard before, the introduction of certification, and the coordination and management of logistics affairs in health care. Anything that is proposed in order to achieve the highest level of patient safety and to reduce the risk to their life and health. One might say that the measures proposed and the jobs falling within the quality of healthcare are already defined and defined by other laws, general acts or regulations. But also the fact that they are not united and arranged specifically for health care, which is a prerequisite for the efficient functioning of the entire system. So, what is specifically proposed to be regulated by this bill? Also principles for the achievement of the quality of health care and the National Commission of the Ministry of Health, for the improvement of the quality of health care system, quality and logistics agencies in health care, measures for insurance, improved, promotion and monitoring of health care quality, certification and accreditation procedures, evaluation of health technologies, logistics in health care, and medical and eHealth. Given that the bill and you have before you, I will not enter into details, which are very precise and clearly described, I can only say, it is not difficult to agree that the objective of the health system should be to everyone, all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia quality health care. Health care should also be available to all. The system must be financially consolidated. We believe this bill can contribute to that. The SDP club will, of course, support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53113	I thank my colleague Jerkovic. We have one replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53114	Thank you very much. Here, colleague Jerkovic, about this contribution to our law, another piece of information I want to mention today, may be speeding up jobs in the health ministry system. So our government and Mr. Varga have provided 15m euros for public institutions, local and regional self-government units to promote health and disease prevention. But the contest hasn't been launched yet, and it was fully prepared in 2015. Well, isn't that proof that the quality and logistics of health care isn't working right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53115	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Answer from a colleague named Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53116	Thank you very much. I fully agree with my colleague Jovanovic, the health and health care system is one segment of society that, like the pension system, political order, education should absolutely be a matter of political, national consensus. If all the stakeholders in the political system understood it that way then we would be much easier not only to agree but the system would work better we would be doing the positive steps that are necessary. Very often we have a situation where reforms are in force, actually... they go with every new minister or every new government. It's bad, bad for the system we're too small a country too poor to make things work that way. So I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53117	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Jerkovic. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53118	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's this example that the SDP Club referred to in the debate shows, in fact, how we in the SDP Club see the role of our parliamentary representatives. So, you who are proposing this law most of us are doctors, I actually think we're all doctors, but we're also politicians. And we believe that our role as politicians is that in this highest legislative home in the Republic of Croatia we have to offer some solutions that will ensure a better quality of life in Croatia. By preparing this law, counterpart Varga, who was the leader of our group, contacted the biggest experts in this area not only from Croatia but also from a wider point of view that he is a consultant of the World Bank of the European Commission. And we have proposed this law without any ideological or party prejudice. So, through our law, we wanted to provide the citizens of Croatia with what it says in the Constitution, that healthcare is solidarity, comprehensive and equally accessible to all. And to ensure that in five years, we all live in Croatia for two years longer. And we now expect from colleagues and colleagues, whom unfortunately there is not much here today, to support our law without party prejudices, to go into another reading, and to do another reading if it needs to be even better. If the second reading is not better, the Government can refer its law to the parliamentary procedure. The government is not able to write new laws in this last quarter, and thus we are condemned that the health care system is not working well enough. So, at this point in Croatia, health care is not solidarity, not comprehensive and is not equally available to all. It is not the same where you live and you are not sentenced to equal quality health care. That is why this law is needed because it is a guarantee that Croatia will truly be a society of equal opportunities for all. In this case, when it comes to the availability of healthcare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53119	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's not present. Proposer's representative? Nothing. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. I thank the Honorable State Secretary to the Ministry of Health, Mr Tomislav Dulibic, for the reasons and answers. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all points of the agenda with this today. We'll be back to work tomorrow morning at 9.30 in the morning. With agenda point – Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2016. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session interrupted at 18.23 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-12-0.u53120	Proposal for a Law on quality and logistics in health care, first reading, P.Z. Number 81. The proposer is the SDP Representatives' Club, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law on quality and logistics in health is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 82 for and 38 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
