ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25163	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue our session with the agenda item - Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2015 Already has registered for the break, so here I go. Dear counterpart Lovrinovic reported first, so Vlaovic, Panenic and Aydukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25164	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia I am looking for a 10 minute break to describe, or explain to the public the responsibility of the CNB in the case of Agrokor, in the case of blocked and executed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25165	Okay. A colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25166	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club in order to point out the problem, i.e. taking the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture or the paying agency for local action groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25167	Okay. A colleague of Panenić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25168	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, please take a break on behalf of the Most Club. It's about the effects of this crisis in the economy that we have, so to get to know each other, it means the current topic of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25169	Thank you, too. A colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the SDP club, I am looking for a break to inform this House and the Croatian public about the initiative to call on the Central European University or the Central European University to come to Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25171	Thank you, too. Is anyone else picking up? If he doesn't break by 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first came to the word of the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović on behalf of Change Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, respected citizens who follow us through the media. From the CNB in the last few days we've heard the following statements, the first one, everyone knew everything, no one did anything, or the second one, the Agrokor bonds that are uncovered are not our problem. It is amazing that an institution as important as the CNB once again transfers responsibility to all other institutions, and they do not feel invited or guilty at all as if they were not in charge of the supervision of banks, as if they were not in charge of financial stability, and we have seen for example the Swiss franc and hundreds of thousands of people who were turned black that they were constantly saying that this was not their problem and responsibility. So please, where is the end of the CNB's irresponsibility and incompetence? The CNB had to know and have so many experts and sources of information about the external and internal debt of Agrokor. They knew what the volume of the Agrokor bonds was and that because of the over-indebtedness of Agrokor, a good part of such bonds had no cover. Let's remember the Pevec company that died in 2007 because of 171 million kunas without cover, and this is what billions are talking about. The CNB claims again, that's not our problem. Look, it's not dangerous for the CNB, and it doesn't see it as a breach of the monetary system. There's no greater deed than that. This is an amazing and scandalous attitude of the leading people of the CNB. The uncovered exchange rate is a grey parallel money emissions because it's about the exchange of money, the money substitute that plays the most important function of money, and that's the function of transport. Therefore, the function of the bond serves to put traffic between two debtors, creditors, two companies. So he plays the most important function of money, the function of traffic. So if the Croatian Bank says that it is not interested and that it is not its problem, how many such bonds are involved in transport? So I ask you who's in charge of this country to follow what it is? I also have to say this, the CNB would be right when it says, it's not a matter of some bond that someone was changing to have certain shortcomings, and that's the problem of the court. However, when someone emits that amount of parallel money, gray money is a couple of excellences, her problem. In this way, such broadcasts were recycled in the system, issued by Agrokor, obtained by suppliers, when they could not be charged from Agrokor in cash sold to these factoring bonds to companies. These factoring companies were mostly owned by banks, since banks could not approve of additional loans to Agrokor were too exposed then they co-operated with factoring companies and thus closed the circle. And last year, if you look at the company factoring report, they escrow and bought about 15 billion kuna bonds. So look at this, CNB didn't do anything to provide all businesses and citizens with low interest rates on loans since 2008 and back here, which led to the collapse of tens of thousands of citizens, thousands of companies, and that led to the impact of Agrokor himself, so that was the interest rate. Not to overexplain what else is further because we see that there is no agenda theme in this House, I can only order on behalf of the party to change Croatia. Croatia's financial stability is compromised and the CNB has no right to claim it is not true. We're looking for the responsibility of the CNB leadership. If it does not wish to change the way the CNB works and responsibility then at least its name must be changed, it has no right to be called Croatian because it is not Croatian or national because it is not national, nor is it a bank. Then let it be written that it is a currency exchange and let something else be written without any responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25174	Thank you. The second word came out on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25175	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, I asked for a break to warn about the maternal relationship between the government and the Ministry of Agriculture, the paying agency towards local action groups. In fact, we have all spoken and we understand that the chance for Croatia to develop, for the overall creation of economic growth through eu money, through eu funds, so here we have programmed and is most important for us in Slavonia and Baranja Rural Development Programme. We have programmed this series of measures, two years have been delayed with the adoption of the programme, so almost two years have been waiting for tendering, and when calls for tenders for measures 4.1 and 4.2 some problems have occurred because irregularities have been observed, written or partly used for large systems, and that the small have remained bypassed again. And when they still have decisions to choose those who satisfy the conditional ones, they still don't pay off the funds. And a similar situation is now happening with local action groups. Namely, these are the LAGs popular who are an important support to the rural population in ensuring better living conditions and working conditions in the area of local self-government. They should be a driver for the development of local communities, settlements, municipalities and cities. Also through the implementation of the common agricultural policy, a segment is important in the revitalisation of villages and job creation. Because people on the ground know best how to manage agricultural resources, how to launch development in their own area of access from above. In this respect, 3 % of the total funding for the Rural Development Programme has been provided for the implementation of this programme, amounting to 463 million kuna. In the end, municipalities and cities accepted the LEADER model and founded LAGs, co-financed them in their development. And here is when they welcomed the opportunity to finance projects in their own area through measure 19, and there was a lot of delays in the competitions, yet the competition was called. And with the final selection of 54 LAGs, they were chosen to implement local development strategies. In total, 463 million kunas were agreed. Of that, more than 70% for the implementation of local development strategies or 320 million kuna. So what's the problem now? So for more than two months since the contracts were signed, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the paying agency, has not adopted a procedure in which tenders are discussed, how projects are being raised, how the LAGs will make project selections and how they will place funds towards those who were expecting those funds. And what's important is how much the LAGs cover 516 units of local self-government, 6161 settlements with over 2.2 million inhabitants. The LAGs were preparing, i.e. associations, members, units of local self-government which were members of LAG areas were preparing projects. Somewhere around 50 projects must be ready for each LAG. So somewhere around 2700 projects are waiting for these funds, waiting for a contest, waiting for procedures. We said that the state, the government, the ministry must not be the brakes of the development and withdrawal of the European means, but even we have asked and it has been promised to simplify procedures, accelerated processes to withdraw as much funds as possible. And right now with this kind of delay, we don't know where the money is, because the money to implement these measures has been withdrawn from the European Commission. All 10% of the national budget goes. Where's that money? Whether it's spent on other purposes or needs to come, and we think we should get on the ground to exactly small family farms, associations especially young people. We have positive examples from the Bebrina municipality, the Bebrina Youth Association has withdrawn a lot of funds and where two, three, four young people were self-employed through the implementation of the project. The lack of this money we send young people a message in vain, you create associations, you engage in the work of civil society in vain, you engage in the work of the municipality when you cannot reach these funds, because the state did not provide you with the procedure that you can consume. So here's LAG Western Slavonia from our County of Ship-Posavina arranged 8.9 million kuna, LAG Slavonian plain 8.5 million kuna, LAG Posavina 7.3 million, LAG Podravina 7.8 million kuna and a series of LAGs waiting for these funds. I call upon the minister and those responsible either to resign or to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25176	Thank you. Following on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25177	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We're following up on the Agrockor situation right now, and I think a lot of here in this assembly has been said. The law has been passed. But today is the first day after the law where we need to see the effects this time has brought. One of the effects that is certainly not directly related, but we know that it will be directly related is the situation in Petrokemia. Production stopped this morning. Anyone who knows a little better about technology is measured in millions of kunas. Petrochemia will not be compromised in the delivery of fertilisers. They have certain supplies that can supply our market. However, we are now coming to a time when key decisions should be made. If we look at the Agrokor crisis here, we have made one of the key decisions even though I would return to the presentation of my colleague Lovrinović. We saw here also yesterday fellow Bulj warned of the same, which is that the neoliberals used the financial system of the Republic of Croatia and actually placed a number of parallel instruments of payment and caused the crisis. The same neoliberals are calling for the state to be involved and to address the situation. So we come up with a paradox to then ask ourselves where we're going towards liberalism or we're going back to one centralism, the government of the state. If we look at the side of the country again, I'm afraid that same approach is present again, neoliberal. The shipping institute did not get paid, in Bor's crisis there was a delay in wages, difficulties in business that will also be in future times. There's an urgent need to take action. So that's where we feel like we're going towards an open market that should leave a decision on these companies, strategic partners. Throwing any responsibility at this point is actually not going to bring anyone a political point. What we should certainly, which is to appeal to try to make key decisions, decisions as we have made for Agrokor should also be made for boating, to resolve the situation. It needs to be brought in for Borovo and resolved. That's where it's supposed to be for Petrokemia. Anybody want to call us? We should be called in if we're not doing anything. But if we're gonna do something right now, it's time, because we can't postpone. We will come to a course that we will not be able to stop, and most will be explored in exactly the areas that are most endangered, in rural areas, in areas such as my County of Vukovar-Srijem. And we see that events don't work out for us. It might be really good to think about that if there is a need for this House to find itself again in this apartment and that the government's initiatives that we expect in the days to come give them support. Because if we are restrained, if we just think about the political point in the local elections, I'm afraid it will be passed on to decisions that should be made both by the government and the ministers who are in serious charge because we will have a delay of a month, two or maybe more and we will cause additional problems. And the key is that right now we must be prepared not only to resuscitate the past time but also to the damages of the future time that we all feel. Is the time has passed now to raise wages, to give social support, to solve some less municipal infrastructure, now a real struggle for economic survival is taking place and to help all those who, in this difficult situation, are going to be the ones I mentioned at the beginning of my exposure, are not themselves enough to help and feel that the state must be the one who protects them, who encourages them, who helps them. And we as advocates must be unique to support the measure, if it is bad at the end when it is carried out to bear some responsibility, but making a decision is certainly the hardest thing that can happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25178	Thank you, too. And last on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am glad that my colleague Panenic spoke before me, he talked about initiatives that we as representatives should move towards the government to make us feel better in Croatia. And here's one particular initiative. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe you know that the Hungarian Parliament passed a law a few days ago that practically makes it impossible for the Central European University or Central European University to work. I want to get to know you first of all what an institution it is. It's about an institution that has 400 professors, so academic staff, 1380 students. It is an institution that is at the very top of the world, and also European, of course, as regards social studies. So, for example, Die Ziet writes about their political department being among the top five in Europe. Lidov Noviny, a serious newspaper from the Czech Republic, says their first law department, according to their research, and has been included in their research by the University of Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia. It is an institution that has always been ahead of its time, which has offered studies and now offers studies that are unique in Europe certainly and perhaps in the world. So there you can study gene studies, studies of nationalism, human rights, medieval studies etc., etc. It is the institution that has the largest number of publications in international magazines and the highest number of quotes in international magazines, and the source of this is spoken by Hungarian./... or the Hungarian Conference, so it is an institution that is highly esteemed in Hungary, Europe and the world. It's about an institution that has raised generations of managers, NGOs, businessmen, politicians. Some colleagues and colleagues sitting right here in this hall with us studied at this institution and spoke highly of it, about studies, about the professors of knowledge they acquired there. Since Hungary's intention is not to retain the Central European University in Hungary, I have launched an initiative towards the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and the Government as a whole to invite the Central European University to come to Croatia. I'm not alone in that. My initiative was signed by 55 colleagues and colleagues from SDP, HNS, HSU, SDSS, Living Wall, MOST, minority representatives, and we show that we want Croatia if we talk academically better. We want one of these institutions in Croatia to raise Croatian prestige but in order to enrich Croatia's academic offer, we want CEU in Croatia. I therefore also call on the Prime Minister and the Government from this place to call on the managers of the Central European University to come to Croatia because if Hungary does not want one such institution, and we want it. And I end up with CEU coming to Croatia, CEU coming to Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u25180	Thank you very much. We move to the agenda with the point Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2015. The applicant shall be the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities pursuant to Article 13. Law on electronic communications. Due to the extensiveness of the report, the report is on the Assembly website, and one copy in writing has been delivered to representatives' clubs. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the report at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Drazen Lučić President of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36427	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies of Parliament's attorneys, honored gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys. Good afternoon. According to the Law on Electronic Communications, the annual report of HACOM contains a report on activities in the markets of electronic communications, postal services and rail services or market activities regulated by HACOM, and reports on the financial operations of HACOM in 2015. In 2015 HAKOM was very conscientious and responsible and failed to make any financial losses. In fact, HACOM's own expenditures are fully covered through regular revenues that HACOM, in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has collected in the markets for which it is relevant. In addition, the material expenditure for HACOM workers in 2015 was lower than in previous 2014 and the total number of employees was not increased. HAKOM's surpluses were made during the previous years and, in accordance with the Law on Electronic Communications, continued to return the market through socially responsible market regulation, thus helping to develop the entire national economy. In 2015, HACOM returned more than 32 million kuna to the market by investing in the network of applications and services, as well as assembly and computer equipment. Investments are part of the own HACOM Programme for Internet development and broadband Internet access in areas of special state concern and mountain-mounted areas and islands. The programme was approved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and authorised by the European Commission. In addition to expanding the availability of fast internet in Croatia to areas where this has never been the case as added value, these projects have a positive impact on the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia outside the field of electronic communications. Croatian companies that received a job in competitions under the implementation of the programme have hired new workers and received references for the work done in the EU Member State. The total revenues of HACOM in 2015 amount to slightly over 80 million kuna and are slightly higher than planned for around 1%, which speaks of good planning. The total expenditure of HACOM in 2015 amounts to just over 113 million kuna and is lower than planned for about 12%, which speaks of the rationality of business. The financial plan for planned expenditure on capital donations has spent 32 million 662 thousand 298 kuna on the programme, already listed the Internet development programme and broadband Internet access in areas of special state concern, mountain and mountainous areas and islands, and one smaller amount for the project to remove interference and improve audience reception. The rest of the savings achieved by the good management of HACOM, in particular, is not a total increase in the number of persons employed by HACOM and the costs of accession were minimal. ... The negative outcome of the business is due to the fact that the financial plan for 2015 of capital domination for the programme and the part of the investments and expenditure of HACOM is financed from the funds collected from previous years, which are transferred in 2015 in accordance with the Electronic Communications Act and are not financed from regular revenues in 2015. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the applicable legal provisions, HAKOM charged more than 900 million kuna of revenue in 2015 in favour of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of compensation for the right to use radio spectrum, addresses and numbers, and compensation for powers and licences. The collection process has been difficult due to a number of pre-banking agreements between stakeholders on the electronic communications market. HACOM continued its work in 2015 to achieve regulatory objectives and principles in the markets of electronic communications, postal services and rail services. The objectives and principles include the protection of competition, the protection of users of services, and the effective management of limited national natural resources such as frequency spectrum, and the address number space, and have been established by the annual work programme for 2015 and the financial plan. HACOM's emphasis is placed on promoting effective investment, innovation with the provision of competition and respect for the principle of non-discrimination, promoting regulatory predictability, preventing discrimination in the treatment of operators, ensuring a high level of consumer protection, and effectively managing limited national natural resources. A particular emphasis has been placed on the development of broadband Internet access and the increase of investment in infrastructure and new technologies in the electronic communications market as an inconsistencies application of the Postal Services Act, and the Law on the Regulation of the Railway Market in order to speedily liberalise these markets as part of the Single Market of the European Union. On the market for electronic communications in 2015 total revenue of around 11 billion kuna was achieved, and investment of more than 2 and a half billion kuna represents a drop in revenue of around 3% and a growth in investment by as much as 35% compared to the previous year. Since we already have data for 2016 this trend in income decline is, the years-long decline in income has been cut off and we have an increase in income in 2016 and a further increase in investment, which is record-breaking in history. The cause of further decline in the total revenue of this market in 2015 is higher. In the opinion of HACOM based on similar examples in the world, the key causes of the decline in total income are primarily due to an increase in competition on the market, regulatory decisions at EU level which the Republic of Croatia is obliged to implement. The service users are now using significantly more than before, and they are paying a lower amount because the unit price of the service has decreased. In addition, the cause lies also in the recession in the country and the environment, as well as the years-long savings of operators in terms of investment, innovation in the network as interrupted in 2015 and continued with further increase in investments in 2016. The electronic communications market was ready and fully ready for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU but the operator's income in the Republic of Croatia has also fallen due to the automatic application of additionally reduced room and wholesale prices regulated at EU level. Also, users are more using free communications services based on Internet access, etc. OTT, over the top services such as Skype, Viber, Whats App and other similar applications, thereby reducing income from classic services such as public voice service, text and mms. In addition, in 2015, the negative indicators directly contributed to some of the operators of fixed communications networks as a multiple higher fee for the use of radio frequencies which had to be paid by mobile communications operators in 2015. Despite all the difficulties in business during 2015, the consolidation of the electronic communications market has continued, while the market remains overall stable with very high protection of end-users. This very high level of end-user protection is recognised at EU level, but HACOM continues to make additional efforts to increase this level primarily for socially sensitive groups. The fact that the electronic communications market in the Republic of Croatia during 2015 marked the further development of broadband services and the increase of revenues from internet access was only a confirmation of the above thesis. In fact, revenue from Internet access has increased by around 13% compared to 2014 and the share in the total revenues of the electronic communications market has increased from about 28% to over 33%. It will also encourage information for 2015 that there has been an increase in the interest of innovation operators, i.e. for the implementation of new technologies, thus launching a series of pilot projects that examined the possibilities of these technologies. Also, the operator and mobile communications network purchased the remaining radio frequency spectrum in the 1800 magahertz area for the sake of the need for greater capacity, which, apart from creating a precondition for growth, also brought more substantial additional revenues to the state budget. In the Republic of Croatia, significant regional imbalances in number and density of broadband internet access connections in... communication are present and this fact is currently more challenging than increasing the density of connections at national level. In 2015, regional imbalances were somewhat facilitated by investments in rural areas and islands through HACOM's support programme as well as regulatory measures, and the assignment of digital dividends and the introduction of LTE technology into mobile communications networks. HACOM's programme for the development of broadband ecosystems in rural areas, i.e. HACOM's Internet development programme and broadband Internet access in areas of special state concern and mountain-mounted areas and islands, was also included in the implementation programme of the broadband development strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014-2015, which was continued in 2016. The aim and purpose of the support is to balance regional development, bring together target groups such as school, health and public institutions on a network of broadband Internet access, and introduce applications and services that dynamicise the economy and improve the quality of life in those areas. I would point out that even in 2015, the percentage of broadband internet access connections was 0.5%, to currently amount to 13%, resulting from regulatory measures and additional investments by operators. From the positive indicators on the market, it is worth a significant increase in the users of the service package around 17%, as well as an increase in the share of other operators compared to the Croatian Telecom in broadband Internet access through fixed communications networks. It also increased revenue from renting nets and waterways. These are all certificates of competition and good HACOM regulatory decisions whose actual impact is seen only after 2015, i.e. After increased investment in operators, there is a rapid increase in users' broadband access to high-speed internet, and as I have already said, the percentage is already over 13% today. I would also note that all the regulatory decisions made by HAKOM, which must be approved by the European Commission, have been approved without further consultation, which is a unique case among the 28 EU countries. A large part of spectrum control business once again referred to the measurement of the radio frequency spectrum belonging to the Republic of Croatia, which is of unauthorized benefit to Italy, not only in the area of Istria, but also in the entire coastal area of the Republic of Croatia. According to the measurement plan, all envisaged measurement campaigns and other measurements in the radio frequency spectrum have been successfully translated with an emphasis on protection against unauthorized use of the RS radio frequency by Italy. During 2015, extensive measurements were carried out across the coast and islands aimed at monitoring, identification of interference from Italy. The measurements resulted in more than 890 international reports of interference with the Italian administration. Italy did not remove or resolve any reported interference during that year in 2015, however, I must also point out that at the end of 2016 there was finally the first positive shift of results and some of the frequencies for receiving a television signal were freed from interference from Italy, which is the first result after the long-standing joint action of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the sea, transport and infrastructure, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, our diplomacy and HACOM as a national regulatory body. In addition to the measurement of interference from Italy throughout the year, systematic measurements were carried out to protect radio frequency spectrum as a naturally limited asset of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The daily measurements are carried out from all 4 control centres and with 8 remote control stations. While measured vehicles are periodic measurements and radio frequency spectrum control included measuring the size of electromagnetic fields in order to protect human health from their action in areas of increased sensitivity. On a regular basis, measurements have also been carried out by legal persons authorised to carry out measurements of electromagnetic radiation. During 2015, the construction of a new control centre in Split began, which was completed and released in 2016. In 2015, HACOM's regulatory measures stressed the determination of wholesale conditions in line with the interests of the Croatian market and the further development of competition. All were without a problem approved by the European Commission and successfully applied to the Croatian market, which is a great success and another confirmation that the Republic of Croatia has been excellently prepared to enter the EU single market in this part. In cooperation with operators and local and regional self-government units, projects are being prepared to build, access and use electronic communications infrastructure and networks, which will directly contribute to faster and better use of EU funds and public private partnership projects. Due to its expertise and experience gained in this field, HACOM was proposed in 2015 by the Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure as the holder of the Framework National Programme for the Development of a Broadband Access Network, in order to be appointed as the holder of the programme in the second half of 2016 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The full liberalisation of the market turned the years-long decline in total revenues in the postal services market, and the emergence of new postal service providers enriched the offer of new postal services. With the reduced prices of certain segments of postal services, there has been an increase in the number of packages and value-added services with the same decline in traditional postal services, which continues in the Republic of Croatia to be present in the EU and developed countries of the world. In 2015, postal service providers showed revenue totalling more than 1.4 billion kuna, which is about 1% more than in 2014 and in 2016 the trend continued with a 5% increase, which is also one of the rare examples in the EU. On the postal services market in 2015, the number of services was about 3% lower than compared to the previous year 2014. Out of the total number of services on the market, Croatia's post office increased its share by about 8% and it was slightly less than 78% at the end of 2015. In the structure of all the services provided, the universal service accounted for approximately 57% of all services, while the other postal services were approximately 25% while the replacement postal services accounted for about 18%. The main reasons for the increase in total revenue are the increased share of value-added services and the development of e-commerce involving parcel delivery. At the end of 2015, 22 postal service providers were registered in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the application submitted. The Croatian Post Office is the sole provider of the etched service, and the right and obligation to perform the etched service throughout the Republic of Croatia has been established by the Law on Postage Services for 15 years. The most important regulatory activities should be set aside accounting separation with the revision of the regulatory report and... Croatian mail, and the calculation of the net cost of the universal service provider. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This activity was very important given that a sustainable universal service is one of the main preconditions for increasing the quality of life in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. The emphasis on universal service is on quality, price acceptability and availability so that all users have the same right and the possibility to use this basic postal service for which the Republic of Croatia guarantees continuous service throughout its territory. Taking into account the importance of the work of postal offices for quality of life in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia, the post office kept more than 300 post offices from the law and regulation of the prescribed minimum. Thus, at the end of 2015 there were 1016 postal offices, which is the same number as at the end of 2014. The Croatian post office did not decide to close certain offices but focused on finding new locations, i.e. the move of post offices, which practically stopped the trend of closing the post offices that had been in the past years. HAKOM has proactively and correctly taken regulatory measures to promote competition, the interest of rail service users between infrastructure manager, HZ Infrastructure and carrier and service operators in particular in connection with network reports. The liberalisation of the freight market in rail transport has led to new carriers, but competition has neither led to an increase in the quantity of goods transported in 2015 nor an increase in the use of rail services, and no increase in the competitiveness of rail transport has been observed compared to other modes of transport of goods. In 2015, close to a billion kuna was invested in the reconstruction and modernisation of railway lines. A positive sign is an increase in the average speed of transport, and the length of railway lines at which the speed is greater than 100 km/h. This should also be accompanied by an increase in competition in the section of the rail market relating to freight transport as well as HACOM's efforts to remove obstacles to access service railways. At the end of 2015 there were 14 operators of service facilities, 1 transport passengers and 6 cargo carriers, two more than in previous 2014. A particular emphasis is given to ensuring a high level of protection of end-user services in their relations with operators providers of carrier services, and to allow the availability of a simple and accessible process to resolve user complaints. When we talk about complaints from users above all about electronic communications since 2015, it is possible to start the dispute electronically via a free electronic e-mail application. Registered users shall be able to monitor the status of the negotiations and obtain additional information as well as to send additional documentation through that application. In 2015 HACOM launched a free application called cost-evaluator which combined that the already existing application HACOMETAR and soon additional HACOMETAR plus provides additional assistance to all users of electronic communications services. The cost evaluator shall provide the users with the necessary information on the prices and costs of public communications services according to selected and entered habits. In order to achieve a high level of protection of users, HACOM is working with the Ministry of Economy to establish the ‘NEVI’ Register, which was released on 31 January 2017. Analysing the overall number of requests to resolve end-user disputes in 2015, it can be concluded that users are aware of the possibility of exercising their rights in an objective way by resolving the dispute before HACOM. The number of disputes initiated in 2015 was 1338 compared to 2014, when there were slightly more indications that the number of disputes had stabilised at the moment. The number of disputes to be dismissed due to an untimely application or incomplete documentation has been continuously falling for years, as evidence that end-users are increasingly aware of the legal deadlines and are increasingly familiar with the procedure. The largest number of complaints were resolved by the donors themselves, when we talk about the postal services market and complaints on the postal services market, the largest number of complaints were resolved by the postal service providers themselves, where the Croatian postal service is being pointed out with their effectiveness. This is a total of 70 requests received by HACOM and a total of 55 disputes have been resolved. So it's negligible given the number of services on the postal service market. Since 1 January 2015, the provisions of the Law on the Regulation of the Market in Railway Services, on inspection in the areas of the protection of passenger rights and on the basis of the opinion of the Committee for the Protection of the Rights of Consumers at HACOM have been in place. HAKOM has stepped up activities related to the promotion of child protection when using the Internet and electronic communications services, but has continued to participate in advisory mechanisms, associations of persons with disabilities, operators and HACOM. In addition to regular activities, HACOM financed the production of three applications for disabled persons completed in 2015. These are personal therapists, the adaptation of the website of the Croatian Institute of Public Health to disabled people, and internet advertising for disabled people. In development are applications e-physical therapy in the house, e-home him where diagnostics and support for children with communication difficulties. The excellence of the work and importance of HACOM has been confirmed by calls for participation in several important regional and world conferences where HACOM experts gave a lecture. As part of domestic co-operation, there is a very good co-operation with all ministries, state administration bodies, regional and local self-government units as well as with other regulatory authorities and state agencies. HACOM experts represented the Republic of Croatia at numerous international meetings and meetings and participated in the development of strategic operational documents brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and those related to the use of EU funds. In addition, cooperation with the universities of the University of Zagreb, Split and Osijek should be highlighted. In 2015 several software applications were implemented with a focus on improving business processes, using Internet-oriented technologies, all within the internal e-Agency. The tools introduced enable effective cooperation in the day-to-day processes of regulators as well as communication with end-users, so employees and users quickly accept them. The most important programmes aimed at increasing organisational individual and common regulatory capabilities were interdisciplinary postgraduate studies, regulation of electronic communications markets at the University of Zagreb, Project View of the Future in cooperation with the schools from Zagreb, Split and Osijek. At the end of 2015, 174 workers were employed in HACOM. Despite the takeover of new responsibilities, there has been no increase in the total number of HACOM workers. I would point out that high and higher professional equipment has about 83% of workers, 8 is a doctor of science, 17 masters of science, more than 60% of employees are under 40 years old, and the average working experience is more than 10 years old. According to the birth structure for the first time in the history of HACOM, we have more workers than workers, and it is worth noting that HACOM has the same head and head of department. In HACOM, there are a number of employees who are volunteers of the Homeland War, defenders or families of defenders. For years, the flow of employees in HACOM has been very low, and in the last 18 months the fluctuation has been practically zero, which speaks of the satisfaction of employees in working conditions and labour rights with several exceptions so that it is a very high pleasure. Thank you for your attention, and for your questions, comments and suggestions, I will answer my final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36428	The Council president's exposure caused 7 replicas. First came the honorary colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36429	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucic, you've been charged with incurring the rights of workers and their privacy, a powerful indictment, and I don't understand at all that you are still at the head of this very important institution that regulates the market of 13 billion kunas. You've driven out a number of experts, spent on travel around the world, on spiritual renewals, already booked at the Bahamas in the 7th month, even mobing, it's publicly published on television over council members, and it's in a terrible not democratic way. Does the Croatian public and our colleagues here know that from the council, meetings of the council on which the head of the gentleman after 24 hours must be deleted, it is forbidden in the council where his colleagues are to be the first among the equal have no right to an individual opinion? Do Croatian citizens know how much money is spent on rented space headed by HACOM. The system doesn't work, people are leaving you, you've banned union action, it's public knowledge, and I'm surprised, I know that the Minister of Transport has requested your resignation to the government, i.e. to change you. It's a sad thing that you're at the head of this institution, this is the twilight of democracy, and those who named you at that time were saying that. So answer me, has she been brought up for violation of labour rights by a powerful charge against you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36430	I thank my colleague Bull. Would you like to respond to the replica? Second replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36431	Your Honor, Vice President. Here I was going to ask the same question. I think for moral reasons if for nothing else, it means it's not a powerful indictment, but it's a confirmed indictment in the municipal court against a gentleman who's headed by such an important institution. But these aren't the only irregularities regarding the workers in this agency, there are a lot of them, I have them listed here, I can't tell them how much time I'm going to have in this short replica, and what's important here is to emphasize me and my colleague Bulj were the only ones who voted against this report at the committee meeting. That's what we're gonna do here. And in short now, I'm just going to have some of the irregularities. So you signed as director of HACOM's annex of a contract with the right to severance in the amount of 1.5 million kuna despite clearly prescribed rights after the resolution in... despite the criminal application. In addition, you favored a private tenant in the rental of a business space, so that is the highest price paid by public institutions 24 euros per metre square. You signed 4 rental contracts so you wouldn't have to get the government's consent to sign a contract worth more than 8 million kuna, you violated the Public Procurement Act. You had multiple purchases of the same product you arranged for the project "View into the Future" in addition to public procurement as a research project although it was also prohibited by the Public Procurement Act. You've been unwittingly doing your job by signing off on functional applications, forbidding the union's work. So the first-degree verdict of the Court of Justice in Zagreb, that HAKOM, Drazen Lučić and Mario Weber blame themselves for the banned supervision of the establishment and operation of the union, conflict with workers, etc. [[Intrudica Jandroković: Thank you, colleague Grmoja.]] I don't have much time. I could count half a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36432	Third replica, distinguished counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36433	Thank you very much. Well, I think we're replicating and we'll hear it in the end, I think it's good to hear some answers now. Because it might be easier to discuss. I'm not going to talk about Mr. Lucic, I'm going to ask one very important question ahead of us, and that's the transition, so the application of another digital dividend. What is the Republic of Croatia, what has HAKOM done since it is listed in the report and that the activities have been initiated? It means that the transition of digital terrestrial television to the DVTV2 system, which in the future could be a financial rather important cost and probably something that could create certain problems. We know that in recent times we have made a step forward, but this is a very demanding step because a large number of TV receivers are not ready to accept such a signal and of course there would be a problem at that point and of course both the state and HACOM would have to do something about it. And the second question concerns finance. We are now in 2017. This is the 2015 report and it is evident that HACOM spends a large part of the transferred profits from previous years and that it already covers one minus that is created in the business of the agency itself. In 2017, have we already spent everything that you carried from year to year and threatened to mean that given the way the agency itself functioned, the survival of this very important agency for the state in terms of its business and what you do in that part not to do so, I say that it does not happen that the agency that had large incomes is now starting to generate minuses that are already visible from business on a regular basis, and that at the time we spend what we had in stock simply more questions about the sustainability of itself, the agency itself in terms of its functioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36434	I thank my colleague, Boric. The next replica is distinguished counterpart Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36435	Thank you, Vice President. I will not tell you what your colleagues have brought to you, but there is another problem. I hear you're walking around the world, spending Croatian money, and if you've moved to Bosnia and Herzegovina and returned to Croatia with an automatic mobile to switch automatically, you'll see that after 300 metres in Bosnia, ERONET is on. When you return from Bosnia to Croatia, 20km towards the Vinkovecs, ERONET stands. When I leave Orasja or towards Zagreb to Kutina, we spend Croatian, Bosnian ERONET. So I'm asking you, is this a civil robbery? How much did you protect the signals and signals of Croatian citizens? It's been going on for ten years. Why Croatian citizens have to have a contract for two years, not six months or a year. So you condition him that he must be on your networks. Why are impulses more expensive in Croatia than in the European Union and we have already been in the European Union for three years? These are questions that plague Croatian citizens, who, by the border of Sava from Županje because I know it until almost Kutina, reach Kutina with ERONET. Then what are you doing forgive me, please? What are your signals doing? You're helping ERONET rob us? That's how I see it. I'll ask your answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36436	Thank you. Fifth Replicated colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36437	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Lucic. I'm also thinking about the board, but I believe it's important to repeat when we talk about teleopers that the use of radio frequency spectrum for bonus users is charged 10%. I don't argue at all that it's legal, but if it's okay we could talk about it. What does that mean? If you buy a 100 kuna bonus pay it 110 because you have to pay radio fee, for the use of radio frequency spectrum. When we talk about broadband, I think we're not working enough to develop broadband, access to it, we're working on not enough to expand the WiFi network. If we want to be a tourist country open WiFi networks available in public places are extremely important. It will no longer be important for visitors from Europe as rooming in the EU is lifted, which is extremely good news, but for our guest who visits us outside the EU and from other continents, WiFi is an extremely important approach. So if we want to be a tourist country, we have to work harder on it. The more innovations in this respect come from Croatia. You have an example of Osijek software city where applications and hardware develop, new ways of accessing broadband, or WiFi. We even have those smart benches with which you can surf, charge phones or other devices etc. etc. And finally we still pay for the relatively expensive Internet if we compare ourselves with the European Union especially on mobile devices Internet is extremely expensive. Tele operators condition you at speed, so you have to charge up, etc. Here's what my colleague Misic said, walk around and walk along the Danube in Vukovar and you'll get messages welcome to Serbia. So it's the same thing to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36438	Thank you very much. The sixth replica of the esteemed colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36439	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Lučić, I will return there in 2015 to the part where you mentioned that, in collaboration with local self-government, a project to develop broadband infrastructure. So one very specific question, the Crossmen were one of the first cities to go into the project, I don't know, I don't know, a lot of time went by, and there's not much more concrete stuff, so I'm also interested in those other cities that have also come in to give you maybe a little clarification on what's going on? When can you expect these projects to be implemented?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36440	Thank you. And the 7th replica, distinguished colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36441	Thank you, Vice President. Dear rapporteur. I find it very awkward and unpleasant after these words that we have heard that you are so publicly called, although it is unacceptable for us from the HSS to at the head of a state institution whose founder is a person with illegal activities, with the rightful convictions. And I'm asking myself and the public why the government and the authorities haven't done it, why they haven't already solved you, but they're bringing you and us here in such an awkward position. I think it's irresponsible to the state body you're running. And my replica goes in the direction, you mentioned projects of a local self-government unit, a public private partnership in terms of building a broadband internet, a faster internet. I remind you that this is one of the necessary preconditions to preserve life in some rural areas where there is no signal or HTV, or tv or radio television or the Internet, and that's how we give a chance. However, the municipalities are self-organised, is an example of the town of Nova Gradiška and 10 municipalities along the town of Nova Gradišče where they work one such project and where they have a number of obstacles from state bodies because there are not enough legal bases to build one such project. The municipalities and cities deal with property law, work on a project, and from state bodies. So I ask if you can help these municipalities because there will be similar projects in the legal procedure. Secondly, in co-financing of such projects, unfortunately the municipalities lost money with these latest tax reforms and did not have enough income to co-finance and pre-finance the project. And the question of what kind of message was sent to citizens who were allegedly in Bosnia or Serbia, who were Vukovar or Slavonski Brod having bigger mobile bills than they actually made an account. They are completed and have a problem now because they didn't want to pay for such services, and some have had marital problems, is how to explain to their wife that you weren't in the Bosnian Ship, what to tell them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36442	Now that's the biggest problem of all. Do you want it now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36443	... and would begin with the question and comment of the distinguished parliamentary representative, Mr Vlaovic. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] As far as local self-government units are concerned, this is partly covered by the issue of Mr. Assembly MP Hrga for the Cross. HAKOM has been appointed the holder of the framework national programme, but to start withdrawing 209m euros in funding, there are still no criteria to be adopted by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Regional Development. Only after this and after approval by the European Commission can only those units of local self-government send these projects with HACOM's permission to Brussels and only then can we expect to withdraw these funds of which 123 million are for the access network, 86 million euros for the aggregate network. This does not mean that the preparatory actions cannot be done and that is what I said that HACOM started working on projects in cooperation with local and regional self-government units as early as 2014. There is one particular procedure other than project documentation that needs to be conducted and a public hearing and a public tender, all this takes place. One part of this was education and HACOM visited 20 counties in 2014 and 2015, except for the city of Zagreb, which does not belong to this and many units of local self-government and today participates with local self-government units to produce these project documentation as a preparation for withdrawing money from EU funds. However, HAKOM is only one part of the wheels in all of this and in collaboration with the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, we expect to send the first projects to Brussels by the end of the year and that the first funds will be withdrawn by the end of the year. By noting that the total needs are only for the access network if every... position in the Republic of Croatia would like to bring light or other technology for broadband access to high-speed internet is needed at 2 billion euros. So this is just a drop in the sea 6%, and we expect that these funds will be used very quickly, which is very positive, and we also expect that by continuing this programme in the EU, we will also receive additional funds. He would also refer to the issue of a respected parliamentary representative, Hajdukovic, in connection with WiFi. There is also a European project that is a total of 40m euros and precisely the Republic of Croatia is asking the European Commission to be proportionate to the distribution of that money because 40m euros at EU level is nothing for WiFi. And we are asking by the European Commission, the European Commission has accepted in principle this proposal to be certain quotas, certain amounts of that money allocated to each country, and then the state would allocate within its borders, and not now apply for that money in Burxelles and then some big Germany or Italy comes and collects all the money in a few months. So we expect that there will be some additional funds that will not be... order of size as a broadband Internet access that will be exclusively for WiFi, and that is where we are currently working with the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Regional Development to measure the funds to be allocated to the Republic of Croatia. We are also in contact with some counties, say Zagreb County, which already knows about this initiative and prepares tender documentation, and normally we are available to all units of local self-government and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia with professional help. The second part of your question referred to a signal coming from other countries. It is a matter of international agreement and it has nothing to break any provision because certain channels have been allocated to one state, other channels have been allocated to another state. Mr. Misic, I'm from Brcko and thanks to the fact that the signal from Croatia was coming to Ravna Brcko, my father could communicate with me in '92. the years and those all those years there in that area. If it hadn't been for that, you wouldn't have, then there was that NMT analog network sometimes at night climbs up to the top of the hill and only then can it talk to a man. So those signals go to both sides, our signals go, let me just... Can I just, let Mr. Muscle? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In addition, my parents from Racanovac have been at the three-way between Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia for 300 years, and we know the problem of border areas very well. The thing is that the transmitters in BiH are at higher altitudes so that the radio signal, meaning radio reception..., radio program and normally from the mobile operator are far more far away from the space in Croatia than from Croatia to BiH purely for these geographical reasons because the transmitters from higher altitude continue to reach. However, the agreement on channels, on frequencies, is an interstate agreement between operators. And it can't, and it can't happen at the VIPnet frequency.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36444	Time's up. Your time's up. You have to finish. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Bulj, i.e. the replica of his colleagues Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36445	Mr. Lucic, you have not answered any questions as to whether the indictment has been confirmed for you because of a breach of the privacy of former workers. You have not answered the question of whether the work of union commissioners is prohibited, i.e. union, you haven't listed the numerous enquiries we've put in your replicas. Of course you don't care. That's why you're here, too, and you took it, that's why. You have been appointed by this Parliament to such a significant portfolio that manages with 13 billion kuna. You didn't answer anything. Absolutely nothing. Did you have, I ask you here in front of the public, the colleagues of the Assembly, what your relationship was with the workers, how much of ours, our institution, if we were to appoint you, how much does it spend on applications and lawyers to the workers? What's your relationship to the council, does the audio record from the council have to... 24 hours after that, it's wiped out? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether members of the council are granted an opinion. You're acting like Mao Ce-tung, so you're not Pharaoh, laugh, yes, it's a state institution. Minister Oleg Butkovic sent as much as I read the government's request to initiate the procedure for your shift, nothing has been done. You didn't answer anything except in which particular portal you asked us to apologize to you, but good and I will, it's already some nepotism within HACOM itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36446	Do you want to answer now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36447	Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I said that in the closing statement I would answer all your questions and what I had answered earlier was the answer to three questions that were common to the MPs, that you listened to me then you would realize that I would answer all your questions in the final word. And what I can tell you right now, you're going to get an answer in writing like all the parliamentary deputies because you've brought a series of lies here. I invited you both to come to HACOM last year, and I invited you and the respected Assembly representative, Mr. Grumoy, and at the meetings of the Assembly Committee, as well as all the other ladies of Parliament's MPs and Mr. Assembly MPs to come to HACOM and see what is the right state of things and you have presented a series, again today, of the least said untrue, let's just say that you are misinformed and besides, I have no contact with employees, there is a director of professional service, I neither hire people nor fire. This whole thing you said doesn't stand at all, it's totally false and most of that stuff and I don't even know how you got to it. And as for my travels, I have not traveled for eight months, I should travel every week, I am in three European regulatory bodies, my travels are paid by the EU, the European Commission, but I travel extremely rarely. Only there when I'm spoken or when I really need to represent the Republic of Croatia. As far as travel is concerned, all employees, HACOM employees, they represent the Republic of Croatia and most of these trips have been paid by the EU. The second thing still related to the rent of space, it was in 2010, the decision of this council was appointed in 2013. And I've also been the leader of HACOM since 1.1.2009. So when the council made a move decision in 2010, signed a lease agreement, there was no sign of me or I was involved in the decision. And besides, it's a story that's six, seven years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36448	Thank you very much. We're moving on to club debates. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36449	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will not enter this level of debate because we are discussing the 2015 report, we know it was two years ago, we know what has been going on since then. I personally don't know if the gentleman has filed a motion for a resolution, whether the government will resolve it because we here have to talk about what 174 other agency employees are doing, whether the agency is doing its job the way the law requires it and whether it has achieved its role in the market as a regulatory body. That's what we're interested in in HDZ, and that's how we're going to treat this report. And the gentleman who runs the agency always has the right to come out and say whether any of this is true or not, so that it doesn't come down to stories she said, we heard or some insinuation. Because HACOM reports every year. It's usually adopted in this House. I don't think any of them have passed, it hasn't been adopted. Because the agency is really important. That could be one of the most important agencies. It was founded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a regulatory body in the area of several very important areas where major economic activity is taking place with strong market influences, especially when we talk about the area of telecommunications. In the area of postal and rail transport, a competition has been established, but it is still the prevailing influence of public companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. The revenues of all the commercial companies overseeing this agency are moving at 14 billion kuna level. It is not really a negligible area regulated by this very agency when we look on the other side of what is happening these days with one concert and their incomes and what kind of debates are being held in public space. The revenues collected by the agency in favour of the state budget on the part of all three surveillance areas are regulated by the move for 2015 at a level of 901 million kuna. It means almost 1% of the state budget. And we don't care what's going on in that agency and if she's doing her job and whether the most important relationship between the director is with some minor or different events that are being mentioned here right now. When we talk about this report, I'll talk about telecommunications, a little less about the post office. And what I've already asked some questions but I didn't get an answer. The electronic communications market is one of the really strongest branches of the Croatian economy, and in modern society it is one of the pillars of development and progress. Looking at the total revenues of the telecommunications market in 2015 is clearly a visible trend in the decline of the revenues of telecommunications companies from 2010 to 2015, let's say, by 2015, the market lost 4 and a half billion kuna of revenue. Four and a half billion kuna is not a negligible amount, and that's what the game did. You only have an annual decrease of 386 million kuna between 2014 and 2015. So one example of how a fierce competition can contribute to the savings of citizens, businesses if they are clear rules, if the EU directives are implemented. So even though everyone behaves according to the market. And we spend more gigabytes, spend more minutes talking. So the product we're using is larger than what used to be. What does it look like in the income section? The biggest revenues of the telephony operators are made in the area of mobile networks 4 billion and 232 million kunas. The income from telephone services in the immovable network is 2 billion and 22 million kuna, revenue from Internet access services is what is growing most strongly. Three billion and 633 million kunas pay for Internet access every day using it in various ways. What is also developing is certainly revenues from TV services that amounted to 632 million kuna at the level of 2015. Total revenue from network and water rental services 429 million kuna. Also one market that many may not even know about, and it is very important in the functioning of the entire system. So 10 billion 947 million kuna in telecommunications for 2015. As the total revenues from mobile and fixed network telephone services decreased compared to the previous period, the increase in the number of connections and internet traffic in 2015 increased the total revenues from providing internet access services by 13% and increased by 25% in the mobile network. We come to a situation that simply a fixed network almost very rarely now and we use, more or less citizens of the Republic of Croatia all have mobile phones, one large majority has and a mobile network generates incomes that in some ways still hold the good balances of those who deal with telecommunications. The shares we have in the mobile phone network are: Croatian Telecom 47.11%, VIP 35.40% and TELE 17.49%. The number of connections increases from year to year in terms of subscription while the number is reduced without a subscription relationship. Citizens recognize those packages that are offered and are looking for their savings space, of course telecoms are looking for their space for better services, but also for everything they think they can provide without further jeopardising them in terms of income. When we talk about rooming with Croatian citizens and foreigners, there is a clearly visible trend compared to the year 2012 when we did not have an EU directive. What do we see? We see that in almost 400 million minutes the income in 2015 amounted to 284 million kuna. When compared to 2012 when we did not have a directive of 724 million kuna revenue in double minutes of conversation. It's that benefit that's been talked about and that, of course, he's already seen in the balance sheets of all teletele operators, but, of course, with citizens in their accounts. The broadband access services are one of the fastest growing segments of the electronic communications market, showing the number and structure of connections to broadband Internet access. Internet access services have made more revenue for nearly 400 million kuna. Almost 75% of the population access the Internet via a mobile network. Data traffic, it's a really big growth. You have an increase of 120 million gigabytes in mobile networks in 2015, in a fixed 10 million gigabytes. What does that suggest? We're on the Internet daily, we watch what happens, they spin around and it just comes to the fact that really Croatian citizens are kind of addicted to the Internet and it's not our specificity, we heard here from a colleague. So the first tourists to come, all who come to us the first question is whether we have the possibility of wireless merger means WiFi in any object, whether it's a hotel, apartment, etc. It may now become even more important than whether we're in good weather, whether we have what we wanted on our annuals, it's important that we're connected to the world. When we talk about the distribution of broadband Internet connections via a fixed network, we have HT with almost 50%, Iscon 11.37%, Vipnet with 22.44%, Optima Telekom 10.15, H1 with 4%, Metronet with Telecommunications 1 and other 0.9%. In the phone service segment in the immovable network, that is what is backward now, unfortunately, the number of users decreases from year to year and it is by 50 thousand less compared to 2014 and compared to 2010, you now have 500 thousand users less than it was in 2010. When we talk about television services, total revenues have been increased by around 40 million kuna. More or less today, a large number of Croatian citizens have those Max TV packages and some others that are being offered, and there is just beginning to be one competition, more and more. There is an interest of citizens, and there can obviously go criticism then and to some of our let's call it public services, HRT etc. and I'm constantly troubled by why we still can't watch our public television program in the high-resolution HD resolution, they're really gone. When we look at the neighbouring country, they have programs in high resolution of the same state programs and others that can be watched by those who don't have such receivers and why we're late for that, and we've made all the preparations for such a system. As regards the rental of water and nets, one smaller segment is but not so small 429 million kuna is 4% of the total revenues in the telecommunications market and I believe that there is still additional regulation in that part and that the problems that are visible in relations and local self-government and the operators themselves are clearly addressed. As for moving to a digital dividend, please answer that in the end, I've asked a question. And I'm going to move here to the postal service market, they're really a little bit of a loss of meaning, but they haven't lost it to the extent to which it was expected. In time, the state reacted to the Law on Postage Services and enabled the state-owned company, the public company of Croatia, to establish their business, that nearly tens of thousands of employees had a secure job to do and to cover it with only one billion and a half kuna of revenue generated on the market where the competition of smaller operators appeared. But the universal service provided by the law of the Croatian Post Office, which in 2015 cost the state budget about 81 million kuna, which is slightly less than what the auditors have looked at or said, let us also have post offices in islands and rural areas. The postal offices in these places are everything and the bank and the post office and the doctor and the store, something that means their life, their connection with the world, enables them to do their financial transactions, and I can really say that Croatian Post Office, regardless of how we can always have objections to their work, has done everything, and this report shows that they have not abolished any postal office in 2015. For 2016 I don't know, we'll see in the 2016 report. They preferred to resort to reducing working hours, redistributing employees, but that the post office works at least twice a week or several times a week with one or two hours, and that life is sort of taking place in that part. Because the fact is that the universal service is going as the law requires and 91% of the shipment is transferred in D+3 days means up to 4 days around you can get any shipment. I know there will be objections and they will say so my telegram came maybe after five days, and when I sent it, which is not correct and that mail can't sometimes react, but a number of complaints are being handled by the agency and there's always a solution and who's to blame and why something hasn't been done right. And that's why the agency is very important. As far as the end is concerned, I would like to say that here in the section of finance and employees, 174 workers were employed at HACOM in 2015, and they are important to us. This relationship with the principal, is there all right that's the question that's going to be heard we've been dealing with maybe some judicial bodies. I really don't know much about it, even though we have various memos going in some direction that something out there is wrong. But these people have a daily job, and really when we look at the number of objects that they receive and their importance in relation to the part that they are being paid into the state budget of 900 million kuna, that they must monitor and resolve it, it is clear that there is the importance of the regulatory body and the agency as such. Whether it existed in its own existence, I think it is also the accession of that former railway agency to this agency, has shown that it can also be done and that the agency can also be a regulator in this area. And I say these 174 workers I believe they're doing their job properly, regardless of their relations within that house itself. What's a problem, finance, we see for ourselves that in 2015 we have basic income means what the agency deals with and charges its revenues, we have six million kunas less income, which is clearly starting to create a problem. Whether we have extra employees or some of our fees are low, that's what you're going to tell us in the end, but we see that the total expenditures are 113 million kuna compared to the incomes of 80 that's 33 million less. We know they've been transferred profits from previous years and we've asked her to invest and you're investing now. But did we get to the point where we're going to have to think and did we spend it in 2017 and whether the agency is going to work with some kind of gain in 2017 or are we going to have a problem with having instability? I think whoever is responsible should react in that section and ensure that normal work of the agency continues in the future. The HDZ Club will accept this report for 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36450	Thank you, too. We don't have a replica so we can move on to another debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, distinguished colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have concluded from the reports delivered on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities that HACOM has failed to meet its basic objectives and tasks set out in the Agency's annual work programme concerning the promotion of competition, insurance, protection and users, effective management of limited natural resources, such as radio spectrum and address and number space. Market competition is based on competition between entrepreneurs and free competition is a market economy driving force motivated by the market... innovation resulting in new products and services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At HAKOM, relevant and market and electronic communications and post office in 2015, the biggest alternative service providers and HAKOM is... the policy and decision has just contributed to the detachment of the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The result of HACOM and Duopol regulation in the electronic media market and a significant increase in market share, the largest postal service provider in Croatia. When we talk about the monopoly, the bigger the monopoly, the more we know who in this space, the more expensive it is for us citizens, mobile services, postal services, and of course it is, it is not met. The role of HACOM. The direct consequences of reducing competition and reducing and developing new products and services provided by operators, the protection of users of services as one of HACOM's missions is not satisfactory to see in particular the fact that 300 thousand inhabitants living in the coastal area of the Republic of Croatia do not have a television signal for the last 6 years. In the area of mail, the only service provider is, postal services are the Croatian postal services which should be provided throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and under the same conditions for users. We see that more and more postal offices in the Republic of Croatia are being shut down and, above all, in rural areas and that this has a terrible impact on development, i.e. the survival of young people in that area. However, the provision of universal service is not in line with the Postal Services Act. Most of the Republic of Croatia does not have a five-day delivery, prices are not equal to all, it is unreasonable to use policy, to provide services to everyone equally. In the management of limited natural goods, HAKOM did not provide adequate protection of radio spectrum from interference from interference from Italy, resulting in the inability to monitor Croatian television programmes on a large part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is not possible to accept a declaration that HACOM carried out signal measurement measures and the fact that Italy did not remove or resolve any interference reported during 2015 in the end did not take any legal action, as well as to protect the radio spectrum from unauthorized use of foreign countries in our area. The failure to meet these objectives is clearly not being met by HACOM's mission, this very important agency that manages 13 billion kuna markets, which regulates the so-called market. 13 billion kunas of the market, i.e. 2015 HACOM has failed to meet the goals set out in the annual plan. As mail closes, the postal office at the same time spends a significant amount on business space and rents a business space pays 14.7 euros per metre square with 4.5 euros of VAT, means a total of 24 euros. We are witnessing a daily decline in the prices of business space in Zagreb, according to the latest data, the last price ranges from 8 to 12 euros, i.e. 10 to 14 euros and a million kuna per year, 5 thousand square meters of HACOM pays for its space i.e. HACOM pays more than the market is 63% higher. I think it would be irresponsible not to ask the competent state authorities to examine all these facts objectively. The objective depth recording of the management of finances in HACOM can be carried out by a state audit and the Croatian Parliament has the opportunity to request an extraordinary state audit of HACOM's operations. In the end, I would just mention that there is a man at the head of this agency, I have a cell phone, I'll bring it later, means a confirmed indictment, which Mr. Lucic has not yet responded to, and because of a violation of the privacy of former workers in the performance of his duties as head of HACOM. To remind you, sir, you were appointed by the government four years ago by Zoran Milanovic and then the opposition rose, even then you spoke here in Parliament that it was... democracy, and some parliamentary deputies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was raised against you and the council raised up, then the council raised the report to the DORH. In your term of office were a huge number of applications to the State Attorney's Office of Telecommunications Associations, business partners, through labour institutions, trade unions, and all because of workers indicted. We saw in both the media and television how they spent and the fact that public money was spent on lawyers just to deal with their workers, ties, tissues, holes in a quarter of a million kuna as well as the team was spent. And how much are trips, trips? You say you haven't been for seven months. Where you were 22 and 23.3. means last month in Paris, and the trip to those countries, especially exotic countries, are going to spiritual restoration to see how the impact through driving through these exotic countries affects the growth of plants. You have forbidden Mr. Lucic to one institution, to the Croatian agency to work unions. And the first-degree verdict of the court testifys, and the member of the council elected by this Parliament for a year already brings all of this to the public in this fact. Can this institution allow this House to ban unions from working and thus violate the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia? Could we as founders, the Assembly of this agency ignore the memos of members of the Council seeking to resolve irregularities and illegalities? Is it possible, in the work of the council of the same members, to prohibit a separate opinion. Is it possible to delete audio records in the rulebook, the Council's Rules of Procedure, to delete audio records after 24 hours. It's the Pharaoh's System of Management. We are responsible here in Parliament because this is a very important agency that manages a huge, i.e. It regulates a huge financial, huge market. Why do we ultimately pay for regulators if he implements monopolization, not market liberalisation? Monopoly's not good. Tele operators behave, very little return to our state to Croatia in the budget, very expensive services we have, much greater profits they have in Croatia than in their home countries. In the end, I would say, without having anything against it, regardless of through certain media, where Mr Lucic has the influence of trying to lie and deceive and disprove this explicitly. Mr. Lucic privatized the institutions. The amount of deviation is incredible. You drive the experts away, you spend money on travel around the world, you book the Bahamas in the seventh month. You're mobbing the public knows that even over the members of the Council. It's a pure illustration of the non-democracy management of this agency. Workers, you spend the Agency's money on lawyers against your employees in what amounts and quantities I don't know, you should know that and review. And the suspended opinion, and the suspended right to the opinion of the Council members and the audio record at the Council meetings, that they must be destroyed after 24 hours that Mao Ce-tung did not have in his time. I sincerely hope, colleagues and colleagues, that this agency must be very important for the Republic of Croatia, which regulates the market of 13 million kunas, must have a person who will fulfill its mission and role. The MOST Club will not support the report, which I call you to the end again, i.e. The government of the Republic of Croatia and I know that the Minister of Transport, Mr Butkovic, has spoken publicly about this problem, that he will react as soon as possible and prevent permanent abuses and the position of carrying out the will of a man, i.e. President-in-Office of the Council and initiate its resolution because it is our duty. Only with a strong HACOM whose professional service is operational at professional level in Croatia can achieve quality regulation. Such regulation is in the service of the entire market, not individuals. It is not necessary to call the fictional concept of socially responsible regulation and to talk about it all the time, and in fact, which is visible on the ground absolutely means nothing to anyone, and that is what fellow Parliamentarian Mišići and others who have warned during this debate have said. And once again, I urge you not to accept this report because HACOM has not fulfilled its role as prescribed by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36452	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. He is the first of his distinguished colleagues, Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36453	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, this is the 2015 report. That's what we're discussing. I haven't seen the 2016 report and I don't know what's gonna happen in 2017. We're talking about 2015. This is the agenda point. And now you said that Croatian mails do not do their job properly, have a monopoly and close offices especially in rural areas. Look in the report if you read it that it says that no office was closed in 2015, it says in the report, that there are 1016. The law allows them to lift 200 more. And where will they be lifted? They will be abolished first where there is no economic viability, right in rural areas. So let's not make any claims lightly because that's how we demean the work of some people who work today. They're not big salaries, I said 10,000 people fit in a billion and a half kuna, all together and the state reacted with 80 million kuna additional through universal services that their system survives. Go to a country in our environment in the EU and see how the postal and service system works there. Mailbox, put it in if you find it. And the second thing you said was there's a monopoly in telecommunications. I don't know, monopoly is when we have one, but if we have HT, VIP, and we have tele, if we have seven or eight more H1, Optimus, Iscon, what kind of monopoly is that? So we see that revenues have dropped since 2010, when liberalisation with 4.5 billion kuna was introduced to all operators, by 4.5 billion kuna. In a year 400 million kuna, and more services we use, more, we spend more gigabytes, we spend more traffic, we talk more, we send more pictures, we're more online, and now you're saying it's bad. I don't agree with that. Let the agency do its job and warn them of their shortcomings, let the citizens complain about what may be wrong. That's why there is an agency, but you can't determine that there is a monopoly in Croatia, it doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36454	Thank you. Answer to the replica of my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36455	A colleague of Boric's post office in some areas means life and mail organization. So a very important infrastructure for certain areas, mainly border areas, undeveloped areas. The fact is here I can mention a very important post office that was shut down today in Hannah where I live, so it meant a lot to that post office for that area as well as other things in small places, other infrastructure facilities. As for the monopoly, I can say duopoly, duopoly, it's a monopoly. So who actually manages the infrastructure of all telecommunications? Who's in charge? The one allowed by Croatian policies to govern. And absolutely what happens on this market is absolute in this case duopol of two network activities, everything else is marginalized. And the competition has been weakened and more earnings in Croatia are made by all teleoperators than in its home countries by the struggle of residents, by the number of users. It costs Croatian citizens dearly. And I'm not going to go into what's further than our market and our space since the base stations were set up. The stage antennas, however they like, pay no charge to any local self-government, no consent whatsoever. Absolutely they are monopolies, and we can say let's say another duopoly in the Republic of Croatia and in terms of infrastructure and network activities because they simply don't have all the same conditions and can't just compete there's no way to get close to those two teleopers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36456	Thanks, buddy Bull. Second replica, honorary colleague Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36457	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Bull. I would not agree with you either, as an important institution is to me that you have said clearly. I'm an electrotechnologist, and I know a lot of colleagues who work there, they're top experts, top engineers, science doctors, so we can be proud to have people like that in this institution. It's not nice that we here in this High House say we've seen it in the media, we've heard about you and you've been written about in the media, there's a lot of things we've heard, and now if people were to create a picture on that basis, it wouldn't be good, and it's going to be this one or her. It is she who is the power of power against you and against many people that the various applications are written because everyone writes every application today. So that's not a good line unless we want to throw what the populists now write to the people that maybe they're looking forward to it because maybe they're lying, cheating, and then they have parliamentary immunity and they don't allow themselves to get reported, that's not correct. So let's first raise the parliamentary immunity attorneys, give the possibility that someone might come forward and seek their right in court. And yet I say, as a radioman and as a fireman, I have the best experience with HAKO where people do a good job and where an institution that only needs to be congratulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36458	A fellow Bull's response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36459	Comrade Sanader, what's written is free to tell me in the face. And of course the Homeland War I was in, I'm proud of it, I don't know where you were then, proud. Feel free to say all mine and what happened to me in the Homeland War and the consequences of the war, I am not ashamed of them. I was a young man who went to the Homeland War alone, served the Croatian army with honor for 20 years. I don't consider that a crime of any kind. But here we're talking about a confirmed indictment, we're talking about a union ban. So whoever's talking about other people. We will not mention those who are in love politically, I can list them purely from all structures. We won't talk about these people, but there's of course that... I'm not those professions but of course we have a team that did this inside the Most and that I want to know about it. Well, as mayor, could you look at the behavior of a teleoper when you're throwing the base station at hospitals and kindergartens, the school,...you haven't responded, I'm sorry. I wish he did. How much did she pay the county where you were mayor of Split-Dalmatia or local self-government of these teleoperators which base stations, antenna pillars? Did they ask for consent to be in the spatial plan? No, they're not. There's nothing regulated. There's nothing regulated. It's an honor for people at the agency, but it's inside the system. It's dictatorship. After 24 hours, an audio record is deleted from the council. Imagine that you were when you were mayor that after 24 hours the audio records had to be deleted. There can't be any trace. Imagine that no one has a right to an opinion, that's true. That's easy to verify, that's the rule. And the indictment is confirmed by the court body of the Republic of Croatia, and I'll deliver it to you later here and I can right now in the replica of my colleague I'll, uh... means a confirmed indictment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For labour rights, not some but labour rights. And let the gentleman say how much money he spends on lawyers for workers. [[Invader Jandroković: Thank you colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36460	Thanks, buddy Bull. This is what we used up the replicas. So there is still the possibility that the president of the HACOM Council should address it. Here you go. It's finished talking from the main pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to thank the honourable gentlemen of the Assembly, the representatives of the assembly clubs for their comments and the questions they raised in this second section. I will also discuss a part of the questions I did not answer in the first part, which were questions of some, gentlemen of Parliament's representatives. I will begin with the questions of Mr. Assembly Representative Josip Boric. The second digital dividend, we expect to bring more than a billion kuna than it has brought our first digital dividend to the state budget. Some of these funds that were then collected were returned to all users, citizens through those so-called. the vouchers and the purchase of the so-called SET TOP BOX or additional receivers that should have been used as an adaptor for receiving a new type of signal. You're right that with the transition to new technology as usual you need a new kind of receiver. Some of these receivers have already been incorporated into market television receivers and HACOM warned two years ago that imports of receivers that do not support a certain standard envisioned by the transition strategy to new technology should be banned and adopted by the government. However, we do so in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance. HAKOM is the one who proposes, who runs the expert task force and is in the government to adopt this strategy and to prescribe certain measures. Our proposal was and is still part of this strategy that has not yet been adopted, in order to reduce the possible future costs of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as you have warned that the ban on imports of receivers that support a new standard should be applied indicatively in 2019, 2020. On the other hand, whether part of these projected funds that the State will make through sales fees... The spectrum that will be released to be intended as end-users is again the government's decision, so there are many possible ways to reduce this, expenditures, possible expenditure in the future of citizens and citizens and we are as experts in this strategy envisaged and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with other ministries is to decide on the timetable and which way will it go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, the problem is, I thank you for warning that it would be good to make a decision as soon as possible to avoid any future costs for all households in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, regardless of the release of that part... We expect the Republic of Croatia to enter the state budget and more than a billion kunas than it has been since the transition to the first digital dividend. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Speaking of receiving a television signal, you asked for a high-determination signal. There is no technological reason nor regulatory nor legal that any of the 30 television publishers in the Republic of Croatia transmits the programme in high resolution. You're right, let's say all three programs of Slovenian television are broadcast all day long in high resolution. If you are watching a sports event broadcast by Slovenian television, which we can normally watch in Zagreb, at least in the western part of Zagreb and HRT, you can see the obvious difference in the quality of the picture. However, it is exclusively about the business decision of these television publishers in the Republic of Croatia. There are no obstacles to technical or legal or legal so that they don't send a high-determination signal from today or tomorrow. I personally know that HRT plans this year to interfere with the transmission of that signal. Not only when the world's football championships or the Olympic Games are but to practically the whole day's program wherever it is possible technologically to be in high-determination technology. That's what I'm saying about national television. For these private televisions, commercially, it's a matter of their business decision. But there are no obstacles to them except the purely business nature to do so. Speaking of television and signal reception, I have already mentioned that HACOM can do something exclusively as a small wheel in a large system called the Republic of Croatia. We cannot stand on our own any legal action towards Italy, that is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia, our diplomacy, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has done. And we see the results in 2016 that a good part of these disturbances in the reception of the television signal have been removed and a good part of the citizens, citizens who have had a disturbance in that reception since the autumn of last year are gone. By continuing these activities through international institutions and for the interferences that are in the reception of the radio programme. As regards postal services, I would point out once again that we have over 20 postal service providers, no office was closed during 2015 and there was an extremely cooperative Croatian post office, on the other hand, and the government covered the state budget with 79 million,... In accordance with 81 million, what the audit found was the cost of universal service in areas where it was not economically viable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we're talking about is, when we talk about the market that HACOM regulates is far greater than 13 billion kunas, we're talking about tens of billions of kunas. 13 billion kuna was three years ago just revenue in the electronic telecommunications market. Last year was about 11 and a half billion. But income doesn't mean anything, it's not... markets,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] are shares of all stakeholders on the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're talking about ten billion kunas. This is the market for postal services, rail services, radio, television and funds. So the responsibility of HACOM is far, far greater than those 13 billion kunas. As regards the decline in revenues on the electronic communications market, I mentioned before this 2015 report, that was 2 years ago, that revenue drop was stopped in 2016. You can't have a price reduction and you can't have better services for less money without a decline in revenues on the market. Therefore, it is good for the market, it is good for citizens and citizens to pay less than they paid earlier for more services and for better services. Speaking of these services, I would return to the question of the respected parliamentary representative, Misic, in connection with the signal to other neighbouring states. The problem is that operators do not work enough to, say, inform users and do not instruct them to put on a manual network selection. Then no one could ever get a signal from another country. This should even be serially set up in all devices, so you can't automatically cross from one network to another country. And what I'm saying, Mr. Parliamentarian, is that it's an international agreement. Each country has its own channels and it is normal for these signals to cross at a normal distance in another country. It is important that they do not enter frequencies that are from Croatian operators. ... I know because he's getting a signal. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I know, but it's a transmitter. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The signal can't stop at the border. I know what you're saying, Mr. Assembly Attorney. Ours goes over the same thing, but it's a deal between the operators. And since we have operators that are regional and global then there is often an agreement between these operators that allows it. If you have an operator not to name him A, and you named him in BiH, then it's the same operator's deal. But we can talk about all this in particular. Mostly if you have any further questions I'd be happy to answer that. We can do it afterwards, but the basic solution to that is when user devices are transferred to handpicking then there is no automatic switching to another network and there will be no unwanted costs. And with that problem, unfortunately, I've personally faced over my parents for 20 years. When we talk about HACOM financing, I'd like to point out that HACOM is not working with any losses. Accounting due to depreciation is shown minus because after eight years, it will come to zero. We've got 35 million in our account that we shouldn't have. We had 100 million. We've returned 65 million of us through the support program to broadband Internet access, we've given back to society. We're a non-profit institution. First of all, we're not on the state budget, we're funding ourselves, and just because we're funding ourselves doesn't mean we can have any extras. However, if it is established that we have in one year an asset that we have not used, then we return it next year. And these are already foreseen by the financial plan for 2015, that we will take 33 million from the previous years that we have as we call this surplus and that we will bring it back to society. It's just a good-looking occasion. This is a list of all schools, homes of health and firehouses in the Republic of Croatia in 7 rounds of competitions throughout our beautiful one. HAKOM returned money from the state budget, which he collected from the market, thanks to his rational business and business savings. And that's where I wanted to hear about Sinj we have, say Obravac Sinjski, Chitluk District School, Gilev District School, for example for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, we have very many locations including Kula Norinska, firehouse. I'm curious about what local self-government did there to develop broadband Internet access, and this is what Hacom did in three, four years. And the money we could spend on travel, which we could spend on anything else we didn't, but by rational business we saved 100 million kunas and we return them and we will continue to return them to the Republic of Croatia. It is not a matter of any loss of notice and the business of HACOM is extremely stable and for this year it is also balanced income and expenditure. And as I would like to point out, we've reduced the unit fees to operators on the market with 250 grand to 100 grand per Megahertz. To many service providers and market stakeholders, we abolished the fees, and most of us cut 50% of the fees. If we're talking about discharging the economy, Hacom has just cut its budget, so this Council where I am President of the Council from 123 million kuna to below 76 million kuna. Say another state institution that's reduced the budget, and it's taken over new responsibilities, new people. When we talk about contractual obligations that MP Misic also asked the new rules that entered into force on January 1st, we abolished that the minimum duration of the contract is two years, so now there is no such obligation. You're right about that. But I've already mentioned it. This is for the 2015 report. Many things were done well before. It doesn't mean that some things don't need to be done and we systematically process them depending on market development and possibilities, it's just impossible to change everything in one year. If there are any further questions that I have not answered, I will be very happy to answer, and what the esteemed representative Bulj said, it would take me relatively two now to elaborate on how many false, incorrect information there are. I invited Mr. Bulja to visit us last year, and I was very pleased to have all the respected ladies of Parliament's MPs and MPs visit HAKOM, to get acquainted with the work of HAKOM and at the meetings of the Assembly committee, to have Mr. Bulj come to us at HAKOM, to get acquainted with employees and employees to explain everything he explained to them here and what he said in the media, so that he could hear their opinions. And to me personally, that would be a very, very long time to explain what's in there, it's actually hard to find something that's accurate. I hope the reason for this is just the wrong source of information and not information, not anything else. I would like to thank you once again for your comments and questions, and if there are any further comments and questions, I would be happy to answer that. And what I'm not going to do today, I'm going to do it in writing, and on all these comments from Mr. Assembly Representative Bulj and Mr. Assembly Representative, you're going to get not only a gentleman but all of you written answers to Easter most likely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36462	We have six more replicas on this exhibit. So you can still answer if you consider anything necessary. We're starting with our first, distinguished colleague, Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36463	... the suggestion when issuing building permits or when the designer or competent authority issuing the permit asks you for specific building conditions or confirmation of the main project from HACOM is often expected to respond or specific building conditions. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I know it's not just up to you, it's up to the competent distributors who are on the ground, but here's the thing that I'm appealing that maybe that communication with them is a little bit more worked out to make it easier or faster to get building permits. Here's the short one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36464	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36465	Your Honor, Mr. MP, I thank you for your proposal. I agree that certain cases are pending, but it's not waiting in HACOM as you said. This communication to some other market stakeholders takes too long. In HACOM, such things are dealt with within 24 hours. But the problem is that I've already mentioned that we're introducing an e-agency into all segments. It is necessary that other market stakeholders have interfaces according to the Internet way of communication, and then it will be easier for all of us in the Republic of Croatia, not only in this segment will it be easier to operate. Just this afternoon, at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, we have the same meeting where we are trying to get databases that are connected to the various ministries in order to further speed up certain procedures. And I'm sure we'll take that into account, and we'll try to work it out this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36466	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36467	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Lucich. So HACOM several important roles, I will look back on this last one, so digital dividend, a good income from the general state budget. The EU's activities, I think, are one of the few Croatian agencies that is deeply penetrating in the European regulatory agency system. As I recall in 2015, your representative was also vice president if I'm right. So that's me thinking the general structure of HACOM itself even pride for the state, I say one of the few agencies. Of course, I did not mention that in 2015 according to the data that in the mobile network was a lack of... effect of 17%, but we can probably coordinate this with an increase in service usage such as Viber, WhatsApp, Skype etc. And what I'd really like to point out is that's two things. That's what you might have left out to mention, so it's a mail system and it's a broadband system. So in the market that was deregulated, I'm talking about the postal market where there are twenty postal operators, it's very difficult to keep the level of Croatian postal service as it was and as we expect. So unconnected to what the state has so-called. The PSO or form of PSO therefore retaining public service, it is very difficult to retain postal services in rural areas. In 2015 by... they all remained detained, so the activities of the general state and the activities of HACOM. And what concerns me is, in 2015, access to a broadband internet where in rural and more dangerous areas exactly 23% of people have a connection while in Zagreb and in larger cities, that percentage is 31.5%. I therefore think it is necessary to bring and agree with the European Commission a strategy for broadband access so that rural areas can apply through eu funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36468	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36469	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, Hajdash Doncic, thank you for your comment. With regard to the euro funds, we certainly need to be far more active, some things should have happened faster, but I expect in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure that by the end of the year we will have concrete results and when you hear our report for 2017. I believe that HACOM will be able to boast that together with other factors in the Republic of Croatia has achieved a significant shift in this area, especially in the rural areas of our beautiful.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36470	Third replica, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a special way of commending the protection of people with disabilities that you said something about and in your opening statement, but here's a few short questions that I don't have here in your report answers to them, so I'm going to ask you to explain it to me. You said that HACOM makes sure that operators, universal service providers, as well as all other operators within their technical capabilities respect the obligation to provide people with disabilities with something. I'm not gonna put it all together, but, for example, access to emergency services for deaf persons access to user services with specially trained employees adapted to disabled persons. Where do your employees train, so who train them? That's what I want to know. I have to admit, I didn't notice anywhere, so I'm curious. And do you have employees of translators or operators, do employees have translators for deaf people when they say access to emergency services for deaf people and why do you restrict all of this, you say within your technical capabilities? Is that something to say today? I think today at a time of modern technology, which is what might make it impossible for operators to provide something for people with disabilities. And here's another question, do you have any information on how many people with disabilities in the Republic use these two of your apps you listed in the report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36472	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36473	Dear Madam Parliament MPs, thank you for your comments and questions. I emphasized in my statement that what we did was only part of what needs to be done and that we will continue to work on it. When we talk about the scope of our technical capabilities related to HACOM, we refer to the number of employees who can deal with the work. You yourself said that education in this area is one very special thing like this and the thing that we really need first is for our employees to be familiar with exactly all the problems so that we can then require the operator to do exactly what you do. We are familiar with some of these problems in cooperation with the associations we work with. Which doesn't mean we're familiar with all the problems that come up. So you can expect further improvements in this area by HACOM and according to operators it really depends on their business plans because some things we can influence as to what is the price of a minimum user package for people with disabilities or for a social package, that is what we as a regulator can regulate and influence. However, in certain matters involving the operator's business plans, we as a regulatory body cannot influence, we can only recommend. What we could use is for you to guide us on these two topics that you have now said to whom you could address even though these are institutions we have not had contact with so far, we will be very happy to do so and try to conduct further education of our employees and employees in this area so that we can better please that segment of the market. And to this last question, we'll send a written answer, if that's okay with you, because I don't normally know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36474	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36475	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd just like to say that I'm sorry that we're discussing today a 2-year-old regulatory agency report instead of dealing with a situation in Borovo where workers haven't received their salary for 2 months or with a situation in Petrochemia Kutina which has stopped the production of actually manure in its main plant. Which is going to say that we have one crawling disaster all over the country and a chain of indifference that's created like, what I'd call it, like monsters just swallowing the entire economic system and that's what these topics are clearly about are not priority issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36476	I don't have a reply to the replica. The 5th replica is the esteemed colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36477	Thank you very much, Vice President. If my colleague Pernar had come in this morning, he'd have realized that we were discussing it, but he got here at 10 to noon, and of course, you weren't there in class, but well, my replica goes the other way. My fellow Lucic, I've got a lot of complaints from the citizens. What's this all about? So citizens buy packages or order packages or contract them with teleopers and sell them a package. Citizens often do not know what awaits them when they take a package that is offered to them more favourably than the one they had and the problem arises. And let's say, he expects a smaller bill, but he gets a bigger bill. Why? Because in ignorance, it happens that telecoms take advantage of it and you have a fact that let's say they send you an account, so let's say a fee to maintain the functionality of the equipment 24 kuna plus VAT. And of course I don't know who's supposed to react here, whether the state should legislate to warn them that such things don't work, whether you're the regulator to say and you can't do it because I think it's a kind of vision, let's call it establishing a relationship that's not exactly based on facts or a contract. And it happens that the accounts get bigger and then it's explained so you took that package, that one, so you're looking at this, and you're watching it because it connects television, phone, and the Internet. And of course there are a number of complaints going back to... Or we have cases where telecoms change equipment and, of course, citizens of the older generation, older age are not exactly normal today's digital time and get the equipment by mail, they don't know how to reassemble all these connections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what's coming? There's a problem. And of course they're trying to solve it from the office, but it doesn't often work. If their employee should come into the apartment or into the house to put it right, how it's already worked then it costs extra. So that's what the citizens don't know again. And I think, here's an answer to what we need to do, as a state, you as an agency or as a third to establish a different relationship and to have no complaints.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36478	Thanks, buddy. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36479	Thank you, Mr. Assembly Attorney, for your question. The answer is short, but it won't be unequivocal. So both end users and regulatory body and operator and state must do something. In particular, the Regulation on the manner and conditions of carrying out the activities of electronic communications networks and services by regulatory authorities has been ordered by all operators that each end-user must be informed of the total amount of the accounts when entering into a contract and only after that the user decides whether to sign a contractual obligation or not. It's very difficult for us as a regulatory body to check what was really in the sales place. What we managed to do through the register, let's say... and telemarketing that you have one eight-day deadline so you can change your mind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if you've gone astray and not been informed enough, you've got eight days to break that contract. Normally, it is very difficult to inform all end-users and do not all use the Internet and do not read all HACOM regulations. So we're trying to convince the operators that it's in their interest to give full information to the user. What we've forced is not only that regulation to comply with all the provisions of that Regulation, but we have an e-evaluator, cost-evaluator where you can see the final price for all tariffs of all operators in the Republic of Croatia. It's a free app on HACOM's pages. And what we made them do when advertising these offers is give a final price, means not without VAT and give without a charge for the device or without compensation for the use of radio frequency spectrum. It is only important that the participation of the Ministry of Economy inspectors should, in that case, be reacted by the inspectors of the Ministry of Economy and in certain cases by HACOM inspectors. We need the end-user in that case, if he has any doubts, to contact us and we will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36480	Thank you very much. Here at noon, we finish the debate, we finish this session. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Notice at the end that we continue the session on Wednesday 19 April at 9.30 minutes with the point Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States on the one hand and the Swiss Confederation on the other in the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities that harm their financial interests. Thank you all. I wish you all every good, and since we won't see each other in the next few days, I wish you all a happy Easter. Thank you and good-bye! Session interrupted at 1200 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-07-0.u36481	The next item is the Annual report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities for 2015. The applicant is the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual report on the work of the Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency for 2015 is hereby adopted. Please engage, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes needed has not reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary board. Honorable MPs and MPs, we continue to work. Here you go.
