ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62194	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. Before I present to you the basic characteristics of this Law on the implementation of the Regulation on harmonisation measures for users of the Nagoya Protocol, allow me to introduce the Nagoya Protocol itself into a few themes. So genetic resources that are rich in biodiversity everywhere in the world, and also in the Republic of Croatia are divided into three broad categories, which are plant, animal and microbiological genetic resources. They are of fundamental importance to many fields of scientific research. In the area of agriculture, for example, on the processing of plants, botany, horticulture, pharmacies, medicine and for an increasing number of industrial sectors including pharmaceutical, food and cosmetic industries. These sectors have already used a wide range of genetic resources, and some have made significant investments in biological research, in order to detect possible new changes in genetic material. So one of the well-known examples of the use of genetic resources is the use of medicinal plants and South Africa. For example, the most famous so-called. red bush and honey bush for tea production in order to strengthen immunity to organisms, and their derivatives and extracts are also used in cosmetics. One of the less known examples of the use of genetic resources refers to a wide range of microbes for the treatment, consumption and destruction of waste, so it is known that several different species of mushrooms from the Amazon forest can degrade plastics, or polyurethane. At the global level of 2010, the Nagoya Protocol on the access to genetic resources and the fair and fair division of profits resulting from their use was adopted. This Protocol aligns the different interests of users of genetic resources on the one hand, and of the owner, i.e. the provider of genetic resources, in this case, domicillin states on the other, in such a way that they are distributed in a fair and fair manner from the use of these genetic resources in various aspects of industrial production. The Protocol seeks to enable the state, local community or institution which has granted access to its genetic resources to provide some kind of reward in the form of monetary or non-monetary profits, and the intensity of the International Community is to re-route the gained monetary gain to the preservation of biodiversity, i.e. to return to natural resources. The Republic of Croatia has been a full party to the Nagoya Protocol since 1.12.2015. As regards the Republic of Croatia, which has a number of specificities due to its geographical location, it is rich in exceptional wealth and diversity of land-based marine and underground habitats, and a special advantage is the wealth of species and sub-classes with a significant number of endemics. The topic of genetic diversity has long been covered and regulated by the Nature Protection Act, which is within the jurisdiction of this ministry. What is important here to say, it is important to make a distinction between wild species in the Republic of Croatia and other genetic resources, so access to the genetic resources of wild species in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of basic scientific research is allowed, and a special authorisation is necessary only if research of strictly protected species or if research is conducted in one of the protected areas, then a special authorisation is necessary. In order to access the genetic resources of such species used for scientific research, authorisation of the Ministry of Environment and Energy should be established. As regards access to plant genetic resources for food and agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, because these two things are usually mixed, it is governed by the Law on the Confirmation of the International Agreement on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture and its implementation is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. The conservation of plant genetic sources for food in agriculture in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the Law on Seed, Fruit Material and the recognition of varieties of agricultural products. Users of the genetic resources of wild species in terms of use as defined by Regulation No. The 511 EU in the Republic of Croatia have not been known so far. Since the entry into force of the Nature Protection Act in 2017, no one has requested access to the genetic resources of wild species in the Republic of Croatia, nor do we know that the user who has a business origin in the Republic of Croatia has requested access to the genetic resources of wild species in another country. We also have no knowledge of the implementation of scientific research on the genetic resources of wild species aimed at the creation of new products or patents in the Republic of Croatia. On the law itself, the purpose of this law is to implement the EU Regulation. 511/2014 of the year which defines coordination measures for the users of the Nagoya Protocol and the purpose of this law is to create a framework for the implementation of this Regulation, as well as the implementation of Commission Regulation 1866/2015, which means the establishment of competent authorities, the implementation of expert inspection supervision and other legal solutions. The most important thing is to say here that this Regulation prescribes the obligations of users of genetic resources and requires them to be treated with due attention. So attention is a basic postulate that is defined and particularly highlighted in this law. Treatment with due attention implies that each user, when obtaining or exchanging genetic resources, checks whether access to these genetic resources was in line with the applicable rules or regulatory requirements of the State providing those genetic resources. The implementation of Commission Regulation 1866 prescribed the content of declarations of due diligence in order to facilitate the handling of potential users. The European Commission has developed an Internet application that is already active and is available through a specific European Commission portal. It should be pointed out here that users of this law or of the rules laid down in this Regulation are legal and natural persons who use genetic resources or their traditional knowledge and are mainly different health institutions and researchers who carry out research for the purpose of obtaining new products or are a company from different sectors of the industry involved in the production and placing on the market of food, beverages, cosmetic products, medical products, animal medicines, etc. It is also important to point out that this law does not regulate access to genetic resources itself because it is governed by other regulations of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of this law, as well as the European Commission Regulation 511/2014, apply only to genetic resources acquired after 12 October 2014 i.e. Since the date on which the EU has become a party to the Nagoya Protocol, which in practice significantly facilitates the implementation of the regulation itself and narrows down the number of users in the Republic of Croatia. The Regulation does not prescribe a way of access and the conditions under which Member States regulate access to genetic resources as well as the method of distribution of benefits derived from the use of genetic resources and knowledge, as the approach is governed by national regulations which should take into account the provisions of the Protocol. So this creates a framework to then domicillize our Nature Protection Act, or specifically by implementing regulations, the conditions under which the level of profits to be recovered to the donor State will be determined, in particular by the Republic of Croatia for the use of genetic resources. The provisions of this law shall not apply to plant genetic resources for food and agriculture which facilitates the work of users of such resources in the Republic of Croatia, for example by scientific and professional institutions developing new varieties of corn, cereals, blood plants and the like. That segment is under the authority of the Ministry of Agriculture. In view of the purpose mentioned above, this law further determines the competent authorities, their tasks, infringements to sanction non-compliance with the provisions of this Regulation. The competent authorities are the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, as I said, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture for that segment that regulates the area for plants of genetic resources for food and agriculture. The law has also formed competent authorities and professional administrative supervision which control the implementation of the regulation itself, as well as the approval of the registration of a collection of genetic resources in the registration of a collection register at EU level, which is another very important instrument which this European Directive sets out for us. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is a central body, it has its own committee to monitor the implementation of the European Commission Regulation and in this commission are in line with the decisions of this law and central bodies responsible for health, science, economy, Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, Croatian Foundation for Science, Medicines. The State Institute for Intellectual Property, so all those who have direct contact in practice related to the use of genetic resources. And finally, the law prescribes violations for legal and physical persons, two types of violations, two infringement classes, first-class penalties are up to half a million kuna and the second is a range of up to 200,000 for those who violate the provisions of this law. Finally, regarding the fiscal impact of the law on the budget, we conclude that the implementation of this law will not require additional resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget and the establishment of this law has formed a commission, it includes representatives of all relevant authorities of the state administration and the law has been made available to the public, from 1 October to 9. In July 2017, therefore, 30 days through the e-consultation portal and it is important to say that no comment, no other proposal, has been adopted on the proposal for this law. We therefore propose that this bill be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62195	Thank you. Is it possible that the committee presidents, or the committee rapporteurs, would like to take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate. We have two registered clubs for now, the first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62196	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. I'm glad that this point or maybe I'm sorry that this point didn't instigate a greater interest, some points have a lot of controversy, and here I'm glad that we have a consensus and for the right one point that could be spoken of, it's very much, so it's not good that there are no reports. When we talk about nature protection in general, I have to say here that this law comes in one package of three laws, the Nature Protection Act, the Law on Introducted Species, and now we have a proposal for a law on the implementation of the regulation, number 511/2014 on harmonisation measures for users of the Nagoya flow on the access to genetic resources and on a fair fair fair distribution of profits resulting from their use in the Union. It is important here to stress that Croatia has a strong interest in this law because Croatia is on the continent, although one country is located, I will say in the middle of the continent, although the Adriatic country is like some countries, I will dare compare it there, like the Galapagos, which is very rich in animal and plant species, and so is Croatia because it is at the touch of three regions, Mediterranean, Adriatic and Dinar and Pannonian Croatia, and this touch of three regions has made it possible for Croatia extremely, extremely great biodiversity. The proof of my claim is the number of the endemics. In Croatia today we have over 100 endemic species, when we talk about endemics, all known Velebit degenia, I would single out one another here and it is a perunic as every country has its symbols like an anthem, coat of arms, flags, and every country today has chosen a plant that is its symbol, the symbol of the Republic of Croatia is just a perunic. In addition to my claim that Croatia is extremely biologically diverse is also a large number of national parks, as many as 8 national parks, 11 nature parks. How important biodiversity is for Croatia, says tourism that is developing precisely in large part because of the biodiversity of our country, or national parks and nature parks, in recent years there has been a significant increase in the number of visitors, so another reason why we are interested in adopting this law. When we talk specifically about this law, I'll be here plastic about what it's about. We have genetic resources, and when we talk about genetic resources, we usually put them in three broad categories. These are plant, animal and microbiological genetic resources. They are of fundamental importance to many fields of scientific research. In the area of agriculture, botany, horticulture, pharmacies, medicine, food and cosmetic industries. These sectors have long used a wide range of genetic resources and some have made significant investments in biological research to detect possible new applications of genetic materials. One of the well-known examples I believe all genetic resources is the use of medicinal plants from South Africa, for example. For the production of Roibos tea, a red bush, I believe that often all of us consume it or most of us and Honeybush used to prepare tea to strengthen the immune system. Their derivatives are also used for cosmetic uses. Here he would say what is Croatia's interest. For example. If someone wanted to use our large-bit degenia or perunik, which is a symbol of Croatia, they would extract some kind of extract, some kind of aromatic oil and use it in the cosmetic industry. In that case, this country or industry, or some legal person, would have to pay Croatia for why this genetic resource is used in any way, unlike the practice that it was not, or anyone could have reached anywhere in the world for some genetic resource and used it in the way that it was appropriate. Here I will finally say that it is a single framework, so this is one framework that will very much contribute to the regulation of the trade in genetic resources, and its application will only after adoption, here in the parliaments of most countries, be slow, but I am sure that it will bring a very good shift in the long term in this field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62197	We are going to another debate, it is a respected colleague, Michael Zmajlovic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62198	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a Law implementing the European Regulation, a harmonisation measure for the users of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources, and as previous speakers have said, in fact, by this law we allow this regulation to be implemented or implemented in Croatia itself. So the Nagoye protocols were implemented in the Croatian legislative framework as early as 2015, with the very law on the implementation of the Nagoye Protocol, but this law actually ensures the implementation of the European Union regulation, in order to fully implement this Protocol. The Regulation defines the obligations and responsibilities of users of genetic resources and thus, in particular, underlines compliance measures for the user of the Nagoya protocol, introduces the concept of lengthy attention in user behaviour, which means that each user, in the course of the acquisition and exchange of genetic resources, checks whether access to these genetic resources was in line with changing, legal and regulatory requirements of the state, providers of genetic resources. We expect that the proposal will therefore contribute to legal certainty and increase trust between the Nagoya parties and all stakeholders participating in the approach to genetic resources. I expect this law, as well as the Nagoya Protocol Implementation Act, will be unanimously adopted in this House. The most common consensus is reached on these issues. What I cannot agree with Mr Zekanovic is that Croatia will benefit specifically from this regulation. Unfortunately or fortunately, we won't have any special income in this distribution profits. And I'd hate to invite the citizens to choose a major degenia for any commercial needs. But, I support, here are some perhaps examples, which my colleague Zekanovic stated, to plastically bring closer to what is the purpose of this regulation, that is, this protocol. Thank you very much, and the SDP club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62199	We have one replica. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62200	Dear fellow, so we won't have any financial benefits at this time, and I would say, fortunately, because we still don't have any interest in genetic material, primarily plant... That's right, so that was just one plastic example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've all heard of it, we could use any other plant, e.g. various types of mercy that grow in Croatia, which may be the subject of interest, but here it is, as you noticed, it was a classic example that all those who follow the session to know what it was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62201	No answer or no answer? There's no response to the replica, so then we came to the end of this debate. One of the most peaceful in the last few months. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law implementing the EU Regulation No 511/2014 on harmonisation measures for users of the Nagoya Protocol, on the access to genetic resources, and on a fair and fair distribution resulting from their use in the Union, first reading, P.Z. 224. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, 1. the proposal for a Law implementing the EU regulation No 511/2014 on coordination measures for users of the Nagoya Protocol, on access to genetic resources, and on a fair and fair distribution resulting from their use in the Union, 2nd observations and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that unanimously with 120 votes, it was concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62204	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, the club of representatives of the HSS asked for a change to the regulation on the exploitation of hydrocarbons, to let you know that the club that the HSS Club, 25.11.2016, asked for a break on that particular topic. So the HSS Club is looking for an increase in the mining rent from 10% to 12% so far, and that's a different distribution towards local self-government units, regional self-government and the state. So specifically 5% to local self-government units, 5% to regional self-government and 2% to the state budget. Right now, that relationship is 10%. It goes 55 to the state budget, 3% to local self-government units and 2% to regional self-government. We know that this tax reform has had a lot of impact on the budget of local self-government units. We hope that with 1.1.2018, a better budget of units of local samurai will be charged, but without meaning, income from tax, I can say that, specifically in Koprivnica Crossing, Bjelovarska bilogorska, Virovitski podravska County, the income of units of local self-government depends heavily on ore rent, given that they have wells on their areas. On many occasions, fellow chiefs addressed the Government of the Republic of Croatia about a different change and an increase in the mining rent. To point out that by 2009, the mining rent was 3.10%, which was directly income to local self-government units. The amendments to that Regulation in 2009 entered into force, so 1.1.2010 changed that of these 3.10, the counties received 0.16 and the countries of 0.18. So it's left over to local self-government 2.76. That was the first reduction. The following regulation in 2011 monitors, increases to 5%, new distribution goes to municipalities 2.5%, county 1% and state 1.5%. The percentage of income to local self-government units is again reduced. Then the last Regulation enters into force, that is the regulation when the compensation on the mining rent is increased, the amount of 10% which is still valid. With one very interesting thing being that it mentioned that there was a reduction in the price of gas for 50 limes taken by HEP and three decisions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thus reducing the price of gas from 2.20 lips to 1.70 kuna. It means it's not 10%, it's 7.77%, which ultimately means that the compensation goes to municipalities of 2.33, 1.55 counties and 3.85 goes to the state budget. And now that we're back that in 2009, there was an income of 3.10, which was a direct income to local self-government units that increased the mining rent to 10% and practically to local self-government units ultimately belonged to 2.33%. So the increase in ore rent has reduced income to local self-government units. And we know that units and local self-government, regional self-government certainly can use the money they receive from the mining rent primarily for the better life of their locals, by investing in municipal infrastructure. That is why we have referred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a parliamentary issue 20.1.2017, where we asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend this Regulation and this distribution of mines. We received an answer from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in which some things are very interesting and among other things, it is important to note that the level of compensation is regulated between the shares contract between the Republic of Croatia and MOL in the period from 2024 to 10%. It refers to the existing production of the company INA d.d. Further, continuing, changing mining rentals during this period of negotiations, buying MOL shares of INA d.d. while the arbitration process in Washington does not seem realistic and could have a counterproductive effect on the interests of the Republic of Croatia. So it's very interesting to get that answer, and in the meantime, when we were three years back and I was the head of one of the smaller municipalities, we were sending out enquiries about the increase in the mining rent, we didn't get that agreement. So it's only after this that we get an agreement that we didn't know was signed until 2024. Then also very interesting we got one table from the government of the Republic of Croatia, where it says nicely that in Austria, the amount of the mining rent is 17.6. In Hungary 25.3, Germany 19.6. So someone really nice who signed this Washington Agreement that in Hungary the amount of the mining rent is 25.3 and we signed it at 10%. It means that someone directly damaged the primary unit of local self-government, regional self-government, even the state budget. I note that we also know about the arbitration dispute that Croatia is 23.12., I believe that the motion for the annulment of the INA MOL arbitration and the Swiss Federal Court ordered Croatia to pay 450 thousand francs of court costs. So Croatia lost one arbitration dispute. And according to media reports, it seems that we have lost this first dispute that we will lose this second dispute at the competent court. And again who have we damaged? So these 450 thousand Swiss francs cca. somewhere around 3 million kunas, we have to pay the costs of the unit of local, regional self-government and the state budget did not receive a mining rent, which, as in other European countries, was to be obtained. So I repeat this initiative by the HSS Club on increasing the mining rent from 10% to 12% because again, every unit of local self-government and regional self-government will use it for the municipal infrastructure, and this in terms of 5% of local self-government units, 5% in the county budget and 2% in the state budget. Also on the Committee on Economy where we presented this, it was warned by the HDZ Club that it would harm the increase in order to avoid this arbitration. But since we've lost one, and I'm saying that we're probably going to lose another according to the media, so that it's neat to change this fee for a mine rent. And I also call on the positioning, those who are in position, that is primarily HDZ councilors, primarily from the areas of Koprivnica-križevska, Bjelovar-Bilogorska and Virovitsk-Podravska, to try to influence the change of this Regulation by their influence. Unless it agrees with the 12% increase and it probably won't agree because it comes from the opposition, so it won't support it. But I'm asking them to overcome a different distribution within this 10%. Within these 10% I appeal to them to amend this regulation and that most of it goes to local self-government units. What's the suggestion? I'll be the HSS club. We'll be the first to support that change within these 10%. Because I have to point out that the state is already getting no amount of clearly large ore rent from the exploitation of hydrocarbons from the sea. Because practically the total amount goes to the state. And here's why I once again appeal to the MPs to support this initiative. He says unless he wants these 12% that within these 10% is a different distribution and means he's in favor of local self-government units, regional self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62205	Thank you. We have one replica, dear colleague Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62206	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. You said the government couldn't change a contract that was signed until 2024. My question is whether the units of local and regional self-government were contacted before such an agreement was signed. Because the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not make decisions or sign contracts that go to harm units of local self-government without consulting them individually, and since these are more units of local and regional self-government, either through the association of municipalities, cities and counties. How much information do I have that they have not been contacted, and here is another opposition proposal to change the laws in the Republic of Croatia in favour of units of local and regional self-government in order to enable them to make bigger revenues and thus enable our citizens to have better quality living conditions in their rural areas. The fact is that most on the board have rejected this proposal. I expect, I call here on parliamentary deputies who come from areas where wells exist where local self-government units have income from this base, to vote on their conscience and to support this proposal because they thus contribute to their local environments from which they come. Because why protect MOL, someone else's company that we see treating INA, not to invest in Sisak or Rijeka. Even plans to shut down the facilities in Sisak, close jobs for our workers, and on the other hand, we do not allow our units of local and regional self-government to increase revenues. I think that's a good idea in that direction, and it should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62207	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62208	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, my colleague, Vlaovic, I said that this table that we received in Hungary stands out 25.3% and in Croatia 10%. So it all says how unfortunately we were protecting MOL, and we weren't protecting our units and our local and regional self-government remains us, the state budget. Also around the notice that, unfortunately, we have appealed on several occasions to the Ministry of Economy about the change primarily when the mining rent went to 10%. We received a memo from the Ministry of Economy where we were well pleased. Here I can specifically say for my municipality that the increase in the mining rent with 10% was somewhere that we could get more than 2 million kunas. Unfortunately, by increasing to 10%, there was a decrease to a million and a half kuna. I have the same table from the Ministry of Economy, so that's where the Ministry of Economy fooled us. It was probably better to keep our mouths shut, it's going up to ten percent. It means the Ministry of Economy sent the wrong papers, unfortunately. Although we are aware that there has also been a reduction in production and gas on certain wells, this is why the reduction in gas production by increasing the remuneration of the local self-government units would increase, he compensated for the amount to be able to plan the budget because certain units of local self-government came into difficulty because they were in debt, and the reduction of income from the mining rental took place certain problems in local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62209	Thank you. We're going to the next debate now. It's a club of representatives of the Independent Lists. A colleague named Slaven Dobrović has been reported. He's gone. Does anyone want from the club? Then nothing. Let's move on. The fourth is the club of HDZ representatives and respected colleague Dragica Roscic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62210	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Croatian Peasant Community Club. As for the meaning of your proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Regulation on the compensation for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, the HDZ Club will support the government's opinion, but in your own debate, you also pointed out that you see for yourself what this is about, because of this agreement which is valid until 2024 and because of the situation in which we are currently in view of arbitration. But I would also like to stress that most of the Croatian peasant community's proposals can, in principle, support them in their proposal and name, but as far as this content is concerned, we need to work well on them, work together to get a proposal that is quite feasible. As for this redistribution that would benefit local self-government units, I think next year we can sit down and talk about how this income distribution is going to go within this 10%. And we all care about the budget of the local self-government units, but we need to look at the damages that they do to our citizens or other segments of society. We also know that income tax has been reduced which reduced the incomes of local self-government units, but here on Tuesday is the second reading of the law on the Finance Committee, which is exactly the state's dispensation of income tax. So I think that even in all the other segments we can talk about, we can co-operate no matter what you're an opposition, we position think it's good to sit down and it's not very good what happens in the debate that MPs are calling the position that comes from the same ends as you and that they're just stressing that they're not to increase the budget of local self-government units and that they're not to amend the regulation. It is very important when we make some suggestions and the content is so that it can be implemented and that you can clearly see the reasons why the government has stressed, which is why we, too, are stressing in front of the club, which is why it is not possible to implement such laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62211	We have a replica of a respected colleague, Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62212	Your Honor. Dear colleague Roscic. I would just like to correct you if we were not the Croatian peasant community, but the Croatian Peasant Party is the oldest party in the Republic of Croatia. As for the mining rent in Hungary, it is 25%, I would ask you to listen if you want a replica, and Mr. Shucker can ask you later what he wants. In Hungary, the mining rent 25% in Croatia is 10, don't you think that Hungarians should pay Croatia more ore rent? We know that MOL is the majority owner of the INA, and don't you think that the exploitation carried out in the area of units of local self-government and everything that goes next to it is the most suffering of the local population and these local self-government units shouldn't they have the largest share in that carbon-exploitation cookie in the Republic of Croatia? I repeat, Hungary is 25% with us, and we're asking only 2% increase for a little MOL to pay more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62213	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62214	My colleague, what you're doing right now is very ugly. I invited you in my debate not to manipulate people, not to say that now the position is doing something bad and that it will not support your proposal, which is in principle very good and would be great if it were to be implemented. It's just good to have senior representatives, because I'm here as a junior representative, so I can ask them where you were at the time when that contract was signed if I wasn't a member of the government or a parliamentary representative. And at the time of the signing of this contract, you had a Deputy Prime Minister and now you're coming here with me to discuss why this contract cannot be changed, and you've brought it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62215	Please, let's move on. The individual debate of colleague Gordan Maras is not here so he loses his right to debate. The same goes for my colleague Mira Bulja. So this is what we've come to the end of. Does he still want to see on behalf of his proposal more colleagues, Mader? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62216	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's the final word: we're staying here because we think the arbitration, and I've mentioned it, is already lost one. 450 thousand Swiss francs, so I don't think it's small money, it's about three million kunas to what it's gonna cost to lose another arbitration. Now imagine the money we lost as much as one unit of local self-government can make with that money. Secondly, I'm not just calling the MPs, I'm saying I'm appealing to them to support them from these three counties if they're aware they're going to support this proposal, but we're all aware it means until 2024 that it's difficult to change it. But I appeal to them that this proposal is made within 10% to make a different distribution, if by 2024 we will not harm the negotiations and this arbitration, even though I think that arbitration is already lost and will be lost. But here again I appeal to the position and not to the parliamentary representatives of the HDZ Club but also to the others to change this distribution regulation within these 10%. Here's how much I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-24-0.u62217	Thank you, too. This is what we came to the end of the debate, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. With this, we've exhausted the agenda points for today so we're done. I just want to repeat once again that we continue on Tuesday, November 28th, at 9.30 p.m., we will complete the agenda and continue the session at the final draft law on the EU Mobility and Programmes Agency, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 131. After that, we will continue with the points that will complement the agenda. Thank you very much, and I'll see you. Session interrupted at 11.00 hours. Proposal for a conclusion on the amendment to the Regulation on the research compensation, the exploitation of hydrocarbons. The debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting, the next conclusion. The proposal for a conclusion on the amendment to the Regulation on the research compensation, the exploitation of hydrocarbons is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that by a majority of the 104 votes, 8 abstentions and 5 votes against, it is a conclusion that the parliamentary parent committee proposed it.
