ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47126	Dear President of the Parliament, I'd like to request a 10-minute recess for the latest developments in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47127	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47128	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, we are looking for a break regarding blogs, related to Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47129	About blogs?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47130	Yeah, right on blogs, about Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47131	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47132	Dear Chairman, I am looking for a break because the Jezic craft has not yet returned 5m euros that he promised five years ago to return to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47133	And you're better dressed today than usual. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47134	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47135	But I've seen you, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47136	So on behalf of the MOST club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the Agrokor theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47137	You got it. A colleague of Dodig and a colleague... Hey, buddy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47138	I'm looking for the same theme for 10 minutes on behalf of the HDS, HSLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47139	You got it. A fellow Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47140	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNS Club, also related to Agrokor 10 minutes of rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47141	You got it. Is anyone else picking up? A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47142	Thank you, President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, the Agrokor theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47143	That's it. We'll continue at 9.45. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] First debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47145	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I think it is clear to all of Croatia that after these frightening accusations at the expense of government involvement in Agrokor's case and that the government has blackmailed and that the government is directly behind the Knighthead Trust Fund and that it stands directly behind it, Ramljak and Dalic, I don't think that any person in Croatia is against the establishment of the Research Commission. It seems that this story is much deeper and darker than it initially seemed and therefore is the responsibility of every representative of the Croatian Parliament, the representative of the people to raise his hand for the investigative commission in Agrokor. I think that no one, whose interest in Croatia comes first, and not his personal interest, can be against this commission. Agrokor is a company that can endanger and threaten every fifth job in the Republic of Croatia with its debt. We need to be aware of that. And the question arises why have you been hiding gentlemen by ruling the truth about Agrokor for five months? Why didn't you publish any relevant information from that company? Why and how is it possible that Lex Agrokor and Lex Agrokor's writing happened before the meeting with Todorovic in the government? I invite you to answer those questions. Who wrote Lex Agrokor? Is the writer Lex Agrokora connected to anyone in the government? Is the writer Lex Agrokora personally connected to the prime minister? All this says that the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, knew everything and that the people were hiding the truth. I call on Mr Plenkovic to come before the Croatian Parliament and explain this situation. I call on Mr Plenkovic to answer why he opposes the establishment of the Agrokor Investigation Commission. I call on the ruling to put the Agrokor Investigation Commission on the agenda on Friday and to determine the truth of this country, to form a commission as soon as possible. And then before the committee as witnesses, Mr. Todorovic and Mr. Plenkovic will be able to come along and explain this situation that is happening in the Republic of Croatia. The truth that hides from the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47146	The second debate of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47147	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. We are participants in very interesting blogs that started last week and continue from day to day. I absolutely doubt it, and each of us is sure that these blogs are not written by Mr. Todorovic late in the evening in his castles from which he looks at the city of Zagreb and Croatia, apparently someone else writes. Later minds are the most dangerous of minds. Since the spring of this year, we've been taking part or watching what's going on with Agrokora. When you take responsibility for running the country and being prime minister of state, then you have to take responsibility for things that are pleasant to you and for things that make you uncomfortable. And that's a lot to say. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia didn't deserve to be entertained with blogs, they didn't deserve to be watched by someone in the afternoon or evening, to get in the mud with each other, when you start hitting on each other with mud, they're all muddy and who's going to suffer the consequences? Budget of the Republic of Croatia. And that's her responsibility, which is the responsibility of our parliamentary representatives. So from this pay phone, I call on the government to do its job first and foremost. If DORH did his job, that if he had to do absolutely and now he said they hadn't done it by the end, they needed some time but they needed to work and determine the facts they were, equally nothing would have happened if Friday wasn't an announced audit that we have a chance to listen to all sorts of things, but let's see what's going on. But equally, nicely please, colleagues sitting in this assembly, left and right, the interest of this House, the interest of all of us sitting here is next. To name the Investigative Commission, not with the desire to explore what was 15, 20 or 25 years ago, an investigative commission relating to 2017, and to see what was there because we have a chance to see blogs, and then it's interesting that someone there has served some chocolate bars, it doesn't look good. It does not look good to the citizens, you know, what happens in Croatia sees someone who wants to invest in Croatia, who will invest and lie in a country that is not able and where the ruling is unable to say enough? Therefore, enough about what it is, the prime minister takes responsibility and finishes what the executive power needs to do but also, let's do it and really form an investigative commission with a clear task and with a clear deadline. Because they are simply entertaining the citizens of Croatia, but this party costs, this party will eventually cost because we are all aware that from the company what is good will find as well as any goods, its buyer on the market, but what is bad will be paid by all the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. So I'm calling again from this pay phone. Mr Plenkovic, do your job, take responsibility and finish what is happening with Agrokora because it is possible to end in terms of the DORH and the obligations it has, and fellow MPs no matter where we sit we really take responsibility. An investigative committee with clear deadlines until it is due to be completed and with clear tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47148	3 debate on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, respected representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47149	Dear ladies and gentlemen, five years have passed since Robert Jezic's promise to return 5m euros in Sanader's bribe to the state budget. The question arises, how is it possible that one person in this Croatia does not respect the direct order of the court, i.e. the judge to whom he gave the directive? There's another possibility, very serious. Since we know that our judiciary is protecting and covering crime, Jezic said the next thought, I will return 5m euros if Sanader's verdict is vested in power. What if it doesn't? What if Ivo Sanader doesn't get convicted? It will come to the fact that Robert Jezic will retain his property benefit from crime, i.e., he will retain those 5 million bribes and the state will obviously do nothing about it. And I'm curious, how is it possible that a person of such a profile who lies to the court, who says he's going to do something that he doesn't do and who isn't, is not carrying out a direct court order, how can such a person be a protected witness at all? I don't understand that either. And there's one more thing I'd like to say, here, in the meantime, everyone blamed Ivo Sanader and all the HDZ colleagues, whoever was arrested in any crime, just said, that's what Ivo Sanader told me, it was a sentence that saved her. And now we are in a similar situation, that in the same way everyone will tell me so Ivica Todorovic, Todorovic said it, and everyone will get away with it and all the guilt will come down on him. And I ask you ladies and gentlemen, is the problem with Ivica Todorovic and Ivo Sanader or is the problem with the way you think, the servant, where the crime mark is supported and covered up. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the DORH should give the status of a protected witness to Ivica Todorovic and tell him, tell him, Mr. Todorovic, who made it possible for you to do all this? Because if Todorovic is blamed, not those who made it possible for him, today or tomorrow a new Todorovic and the new Ivo Sanader and those who will allow them to deal with crime and destroy Croatia will just say the same thing, so they told me so, so I did. Thank you, cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47150	4 debates, Advocacy Bridges of Independent Lists and Honored Fellow Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47151	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we've all been witnessing these last few days and we can see that the breaks are cornered. on the topic of Agrokora, which began to unwrap, prompted by its criminal application by former Parliament Speaker Bozo Petrov. We are now waiting for all that report to show, whether it will show some responsibility for Ivica Todorovic and a narrow circle around him. But what we are interested in and here I disagree with my colleague Taritash that we should deal with only 2017. We should deal with 2017, but we should also deal with what happened before, because the thought of your colleague Pernar, that Ivica Todorovic should tell you who made it possible for him to create such a concert, which in this way affects the Croatian economy. And what is crucial to Croatia's recovery means to me here, even though we are establishing an investigative commission, we are neither investigators nor prosecutors, but we need to see what institutions are, which people, which politicians have made possible such an affair, so that we don't have to do it again. We need to see which institutions, whether by their actions or not, have led to this kind of situation here. I'm thinking primarily of HANF and CNB. Here's my colleague Bulj has also filed criminal charges on this matter. And we will continue as the Bridge insist on it. So I said what we did, remember except for this criminal application by God Petrov, to determine the responsibility of the Ivica Todorovic. We have here two criminal charges for the HANF and the CNB as regulators, i.e. for the CNB. We have a situation here that we have brought before you two times now the CNB Act, where we are looking for an audit of the business of the CNB, which, unfortunately, your colleagues refused, I hope you will now hold it two times. And I would also remind you, that here in those turbulent times, the government crisis has been passed by the Archive Act. The names we are talking about today are also in these archives, so now that I'm looking at it, even though we haven't planned it, it turns out, that we have launched one process of catharsis of this Croatian society that is necessary for young people not to leave Croatia, this process will be painful for some of them, but for most Croatian society it will be healing. And that's what we should insist on. Our young people are leaving Croatia too, leaving because of the bad economic situation, but they are also leaving because of mistrust in the institutions of this country. We must restore that trust, in order for this trust to return, we must write down, who is all responsible, which institutions have failed and which people, politicians have failed. And that is the meaning of the investigative committee that we call upon, we want the full truth about Agrokor, the closure or arrest of Ivica Todoric or the narrow circle around him, will not be a solution to Croatian problems. It should be determined by the DORH, but we must no longer allow a similar case to happen to us in energy or anywhere else. This is the task of us as parliamentary representatives, and on this bridge will insist, we have started these processes, they are now tormented, this is all painful to see I am wrapped up for Croatian citizens, but they are the basis for a healthier, more transparent and fair society in which everyone will be equal, in which there will be no partner capitalism, but a healthy capitalism and a market economy, and we will insist on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47152	The fifth debate, HDS, HSLS, HDSSB and respected representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47153	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. I responded to this topic because it really brings the Croatian public together, but primarily because of it not to satisfy the Croatian public and collect populist points, but to talk about the logic of the work of this Parliament. Agrokor is an almost fatal topic that will be resolved in one way or another for Croatia, but what I do, I have no problem setting up a committee for Agrokor, but after participating in one commission, I have come to irrefutable conclusions, which is that we are incompetent for such a serious job. When the matter becomes complicated and the fact that the choice of constitutional judges is conditioned by the Agrokor committee then all the stories about how we care about Agrokor fall into the water. The Constitutional Court as an extremely important institution without which we can practically not function or could not function is related to one topic which is a day-to-day policy but which has broad scales. But these are two completely separate things. When you gentlemen want populism, then we get to this. I don't have any problem with establishing a commission, but before I do, I should pass a law on what these investigative committees should look like, not a dozen of us, twelve of us who don't understand the problem we're discussing. We don't understand basic not only terms but procedures. We have mentioned colleague Pernar DORH, Mrs Tarritash mentioned that she must do, I agree that they must do so and we will evaluate their work in a political sense, but that we are discussing the problems for which they are qualified and finally the police, so people are terror streets. Let us not think that we are different as far as our knowledge of the street is concerned in all areas. We're here to discuss law-making, but the investigative committees as they are now being asked are really asking the question where is this going? It leads only to the destruction of the final segment of the integrity of this Parliament, the final segment of the integrity of this House. So let's let the institutions do their jobs, let's let people do their jobs, and I suggest that I make a law on investigative committees where we'll be able to hire people who understand that and where the consequences of this commission's work will have some effect. In this way we will entertain the people, entertain the people in a way that only harms the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47154	The sixth in line is a respected colleague, Milorad Batinic, on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47155	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I can only repeat on behalf of the club what we say all the time both here in the Parliament and in the public and through the media about the affair or the stories about Agrokor. HNS has no problem setting up an investigative commission regarding Agrokor, I repeat, we have said that since both this topic was updated and in this House. However, there are different motives for our colleagues and colleagues here who are sitting in the Political Options Assembly as to why they are up-to-date at this level, they can understand. And the law was passed where the HNS is, we were against that law, along the fence, we proposed certain amendments to improve the law. We are aware of the circumstances and we are aware that everyone here believes that a private company, a private-owned company like Agrokor means to the economy of the Republic of Croatia, is not speaking from agricultural production, not speaking from tourism. The tourist season was a success. I'm just asking what would have happened if Agrokor had stopped before the tourist season? I believe that those who are visitors would not be very pleased because they would not go to their countries or where they come from with one perception that we want. I repeat, we have no problem with establishing a commission, but I appeal to everyone, we have always appealed to common sense, Parliament as a legislative body I most dare say to the political body that stems from the Constitution, primarily we choose the government, we choose the executive bodies that govern this state, we are here to sort of control. He would also point to so far the experience of investigative committees here in the Parliament. What's the result, I'm asking you, what's the result of these investigative committees not to mention the names here have been mentioned, all spoken of, lamentated. Popularism, political points, but gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, that's short breath. I think we should first and foremost let the DORH do that part of the job that the Constitution and the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia commit to, first and foremost. What can this Parliament do, an investigative committee that can? We're a political body, let's not take any powers that don't go to us. It's lamentable, it's speculating on this report whether it's a haired report, whether or not it's... Well, I'm not competent, I don't dare at all without proper ones, without those who are competent to give their judgment on it, they're witches. I am inclined to do so and therefore I say that the HNS has no problem with the Investigation Commissions, if this is our responsibility, political responsibility for Agrokor, means political responsibility. And I think that, above all, in that direction, we should go our own thinking, and in that direction, we should, even if it comes to the establishment of an investigative commission to be guided in this way. I remember, there were public sessions when former Prime Minister Sanader was on the Bureau of Investigation, trying to get back, look at those footage, probably somewhere, what it looked like. What was it like for colleagues and colleagues? I agree with my colleague, Dodig, that if we don't take care of this House and this Parliament's integrity, no one will. I can understand certain political options that, in the absence of content, proposing some content, some legislative proposals, make this society, Croatian society better for the benefit of all citizens, to go even on such ground-floor topics. I repeat, the HNS Liberal Democrats do not have a problem with establishing a commission but we are legalists to this all parliamentary deputies obliges the Constitution that we must respect the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Let the DORH do the job and after that, it's our thinking, we have nothing against establishing a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47156	7th order of the distinguished colleague Branko Bačić on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47157	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I asked for a break to respond partly to statements from our colleagues that I would first of all say immediately that the blogs that appear in the belows of 22 September this year are linked to the recent publication of financial reports on the state of Agrokor in late 2016 which will partly show whether the Agrokor balance has been falsified or not. But in this flood of posts on blogs and media spins, we forget the metrics, and that measure is the fact that before the adoption of the Law on extraordinary administration Agrokor was in bankruptcy that a bankruptcy was opened on him, that it threatened the dismissal of 56 thousand employees in the system of Agrokor in... , that threatened, practically closing down a number of OPGs and suppliers, and there were about 150 thousand directly connected to the Agrokor system, that Agrokor was blocked with 3 billion kunas, that Agrokora's debt was around 40 billion kuna and that the collapse of Agrokor threatened the security of the financial economic system of the Republic of Croatia, and so also the clear implementation of the tourist season that was at the door at the time when this Assembly passed the Law on Agrokor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Emergency Administration Act prevented bankruptcy, prevented the layoff of employees, allowed the continuation of numerous suppliers related to Agrokor, enabled a great, best ever tourist season, and these are the results achieved by the Emergency Administration Act. It is therefore signifying today that, for example, SDP President Davor Bernardić and Mr Ivica Todorovic have almost identical and equal attitudes. It is an incredible harmony of views in the statements by both Mr Bernardic and Mr Todorovic. It sounds amazing to me that this morning the president of the SDP here from this pay phone invites the government and the extraordinary administration to publish information on Agrokor. It is amazing that the SDP president, Mr Bernardic, does not know that the extraordinary administration once a month publishes the state of financial reports on the work of Agrokor. At the end of this presentation, I will give my colleague, Bauk, the latest information with August 11th, or September 10th, so that he sees and that he meets his president if he is not already able to go to the Ministry of Economy and get acquainted with all the elements, the business of the entire Agrokor, or all the companies in the system. This law, I repeat, allows us today to discuss the business of Agrokor, that we can discuss the continuation of his business on a settlement which will resolve all those debts sought by the citizens of Agrokor and who, without forgetting it, have given up on the further financing of Agrokor and Agrokor has prevented bankruptcy, and clearly, then, to a large extent, the financial economic system of the Republic of Croatia would be violated. And a few words from a respected colleague and colleague on the investigative committee. I keep saying that on behalf of the HDZ Club, we have absolutely no problem in HDZ setting up an investigative commission. And also the fact that counterpart Batinic said, we know what the results of the so far investigative committees were, we are not interested in that either. We're only interested in two things. The first thing, we do not want the investigative committee to interfere with the work of the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia which are currently conducting investigative actions in the system of concerts. We do not want the legislative authority to interfere roughly with the work of the investigating bodies of the Republic of Croatia in the first order of the attorney general. And with that, we don't have a problem with this investigation being conducted right now. It would be wise, it would be wise for this House to allow investigative actions to be carried out and, ultimately, the attorney general assesses whether there are reasons to open an investigation into the leaders of Agrokor. And secondly, it is unacceptable that the establishment of an investigative commission is conditional upon the election of constitutional judges. ... the choice of constitutional judges is a concession to HDZ. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The choice of members of the Constitutional Court is a priority of this Assembly to allow one of the highest institutions in the Republic of Croatia to function normally and cannot possibly accept integration and conditionality Here I am ending Mr. President, setting up an investigative committee with the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47158	I thank everyone for the debate. And now we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47159	Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47160	Please pause on the subject of the Croatian people who are suffering because of this policy that is being implemented against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47161	Of course, because of the Croatian people who suffer, you'll always get a break, and then we'll see each other at 16.50 and we'll see you then. I'm sorry about 16 and 57. After that, we will continue with the replicas of course. [[It's 4:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 16.57 HOURS]] Here's a colleague and a colleague of 16 and 57, so on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47163	Dear ladies and gentlemen, hours go by, days, months and years and Croatian people live worse and worse. I'm afraid there's little use for this speaker. As it would be said in the nation, “it is buzzing full, but it is giving little honey. ” And that would actually describe the political decisions that this supreme body has made. Some of them are, for example, supported by this Council of Electricity, Water, Gas, an increase in VAT. Here's what they're trying to do. They want to bring in a cell phone tax, some extra, etc. Well, it's hard for people to live, and VAT is 25%. What country can stand it? In Germany, they must have 7% VAT on food. Food's 20 percent cheaper there. So we here have less purchasing power, less wages, and we pay more expensive food and people flee the country. This is the result of the policy implemented in Croatia. No one can argue with that. And as I walked through Ban Jelacic Square. One Mrs. Renata Bedekovic Turopoljka asked me, "Is there anything you can do to stop them?" I said, ma'am, I'm doing my best. But no matter how hard I try, it doesn't help. And she said to that, Ivan, here's something that will help you, and she's got me, she's got an O.P.G., she gave me a garlic, and she says with that, "Mr. Against the Devil and against the Bloodsucker." And this is actually the last thing that the Croatian people can actually deal with against HDZ because there are obviously no other instruments. Because when the elections come, then people vote for HDZ and your coalition band and others. And here are the ladies and gentlemen in the hope that this blood-drinking policy to the Croatian people and in fact the torture of my own people will cease I am leaving this garlic here behind the pay phone in the hope that it will work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47164	The Honorable Representative Kovac has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It means Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, by his conduct, deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. So I'd really like to make a deal once to end the suffering we have over Mr. Pernar's condition. So this is a circus, this is charlatanism, and I ask you, Mr. President, that you no longer allow these kind of breaks. This doesn't make sense. This is a mockery of this institution. It's a shame, I'm ashamed to sit in a house like this with garlic and all this crazy. It's a shame and I'm asking you not to allow things like this to happen in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u47166	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, you have no word. [[Pernar: You know who it bothers! Who's got a problem with garlic?]] I don't have the opportunity to deny someone by the Rules of Procedure, so a request for a break. But I'm happy there's no Glagow cake. You should be happy with the little things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50220	And now we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50221	Mr. President, I would like to thank the president of the HDZ Club for delivering these reports to me, and here I am, as soon as I print, will deliver our proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50222	Thank you very much. But I'm glad you're here, so you can give your president these materials to see that the government isn't hiding anything and that everything is available, you just need to know where to find it on the Internet. Thank you. So we continue with the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading, P.Z. No. 174 First of all, welcome to the representatives of all defence associations who are here with us, especially the greetings of the Association of Croatian Military Disabilities. Thank you for coming. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on War Veterans and you received reports at the session. He would now ask the applicant to give an additional explanation, it is Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50223	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. We have approached this law in order to provide the most responsible for the defence of our country with comprehensive care tailored to their needs. Since the status and material rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families and victims of the Homeland War were distributed in a number of different laws, which created legal and existential uncertainty for users and that the applicable law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families had been changed more than ten times, the analysis of the situation showed the need for extensive changes. With a strong legal foothold, by prescribing the fundamental values of which the sovereign Republic has emerged and by including all Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, in a unique legal framework, the recognition of their sacrifice is given and the protection of the integrity of the Homeland War and of all Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. This bill, which has been under way for more than a year, is the result of inter-resorship cooperation with competent authorities and for the first time has been attended by Croatian defenders through the work of project teams. The analysis, which served as a basis for lawmaking, showed the following. Of the 505 694 Croatian defenders on the record, 442 710 live today. Permanent rights under the applicable law are granted by 56,5662 defenders who have the status of a Croatian military disabled. 82 889 Croatian defenders are unemployed and there is no regular income. The particularly worrying fact is that more than 54 thousand Croatian defenders are urmo after the Homeland War and each year more and more are dying. 4073 Croatian defenders died in 2016. The analysis of the situation has shown that some of the key problems that require the adoption of a new law are the closed deadline for achieving the status of a Croatian wartime war invalid from the Homeland War... and diseases in 2006 and the status of Croatian defenders in 2009, dispersion of status and material rights of the defence-sufficient population, insufficient health care for Croatian defenders, unemployment, abolished supply, long-term housing care, unfavourable conditions for retirement, especially for Croatian defenders who do not have the status of Croatian military disabled in the Homeland War, long-term medical skill procedure for the needs of status and rights of Croatian defenders and others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This draft law provides for the regulation of status. The bill allows for the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War and those who have not yet met the conditions of a certain law will be able to achieve the status of Croatian defender in the process in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. Under the applicable law, the status of Croatian defenders is determined only by those members of the armed national protection squads who spent at least 5 months in them until 24 December 1991. Under the proposal for a new law, the achievement of the status of Croatian defenders will allow the following members of the national protection that could not achieve their status under the applicable law. Members of armed national protection teams directly engaged in the fighting sector, for a minimum of 100 days, from 30.7.2011 to 31.12.1991. Members of the armed national protection teams directly engaged in the fighting sector who were killed, imprisoned or missing in the period from 30.7.1.1 to 31.12.1991, regardless of the number of days of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Several hundred new statuses of Croatian defenders are expected to be opened due to the opening of the deadline. The status of volunteers, as regards the status of volunteers from the Homeland War, is the novelty that Croatian defenders, who had no obligation to participate in the reserve or did not regulate the military obligation to serve the military period, will primarily think about women and minors, have the possibility of recognising volunteer status even though they have had at least 100 days of the fighting sector since 5.8.1990-31.12.1995 or as a valid law for at least 30 days from 5.8.1990-15.1.1992. Some of the rights provided for volunteers in determining pensions for volunteers are increased by an additional 10% compared to other Croatian defenders. Volunteers from the Homeland War who have not achieved the status of a Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War, who have participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia for more than 2 years in the fighting sector, have the right to housing care, the advantage of employment in the order of the championship. The status of a Croatian wartime war invalid from the Homeland War, proposed by this law, allows for the status of a Croatian war invalid from the Homeland War on the basis of disease. When the deadline closed, for recognition of the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid, there is a disease, it has been nearly 12 years, in which some 40,000 Croatian defenders died. Out of 2000-3000 Croatian defenders are in the constant procedure of hospital treatment, and some of them died without the right status, as the deadline for recognition of the status of Croatian wartime wartime invalid is closed. According to the bill, all Croatian defenders who, due to their participation in the Homeland War, are ill or worsened, who have the continuity of treatment from disease to date, by applying, will be able to establish the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid, if they are diagnosed by medical skill, a causal intermediate link between disease and participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Our estimates are that by 2025, around 5,000 and 700 Croatian defenders will have a disability pension based on the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid. Skills for the purpose of achieving the status and rights of this law, with the aim of institutional improvement, and given the current problem of handling the procedures necessary for the achievement of status and rights of the defence victims' population, we must stress that this is about the specificity of the problem, the slowness of the conduct, the new law, the establishment, the special element of establishment within the Institute of Arts, professional rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities in the procedures for achieving the status and material rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, who will be responsible for all the skills concerned by those users. Currently in the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, about 40,000 cases, including Croatian defenders, have been unresolved. It is not possible to perform current art within the law of certain deadlines, but it is also waiting for the art for a year. The introduction of new categories, a participant of the Homeland War, other than Croatian defenders, gave their contribution to the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, following which they needed to be adequately included in the legal provisions governing issues of the defence victims' population. The category of participants needs to be distinguished from the categories of persons who achieve the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War, as well as from categories of persons who also do not have the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War, but because of the damage to the organism, they exercise certain rights as Croatian military disabled people from the Homeland War. For this category of participants of the Homeland War, this law does not provide for material rights, but for moral satisfaction, through the recognition of their contribution, the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, by including this category in this law. According to Art. 15. The proposal for a law on the status of participants may be obtained by a member of a national protection team other than those referred to in Article 3(3). This law, therefore, except for those who can leave the status of Croatian defender. And medical staff who were in charge of caring for wounded and injured defenders, and failed to achieve the status of Croatian defender. War reporter, a member of the fire squad, a seaman, a member of the crew of merchant Navy ships, except those who are wounded, and as such exercise the rights of a Croatian military disabled. Either they disappeared or died, and members of their families exercise certain rights as members of the family of the dead or missing, and members of civil protection. The dead Croatian defenders, the status of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War, is a status that primarily applies to Croatian defenders who have suffered defrauded in the Homeland War, or shortly after the Homeland War. Since more than 20 years have passed since the Homeland War, in Article 8 of the bill, a new category has been introduced, a Croatian defender died, and members of their families are exercising the rights set out in this law. For members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The following permanent rights are provided for members of the family of the deceased Croatian defenders under the bill, family pensions for family members, married or out-of-marriage friends and children, compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders and members of their families, for married or out-of-marriage friends. Health care, in order to correct the current situation in which there is no systematic and adequate health care for Croatian defenders, this bill proposes the following measures, will allow members of the families of the dead or missing persons to be subject to compulsory health insurance and after the right to a family disability has ceased if they cannot achieve this right on another basis. Compared to the current law, the exemption from participation in the coverage of part of health care costs, the Croatian Defence Card has been extended to children of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of the missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and after they have ceased their right to the family of disabled persons or to pay for a family disability if they are unemployed and if during the use of the family disability or for the amount of family disability they have left without the parental care of another parent or the death of another parent. These two conditions must be cumulatively met, or while the beneficiaries of benefits for the unemployed are provided for by this law. Medical rehabilitation will allow all Croatian defenders with damage to the organism as a result of their participation in the Homeland War, not only for Croatian wartime military disableds, as is the applicable law. Assessment for 2018 fiscal impact 7.3 million kuna for 1400 users. Systematic reviews for Croatian defenders are being introduced, estimated 20 million kuna for 26.030 users for 2018. It should be pointed out that we already implemented this measure before the entry into force of the new law in 2017. The adoption of a national strategy for the protection and preservation of the health of Croatian defenders is foreseen, no later than 60 days after the entry into force of this law. First in pension insurance, the lowest pension base will be determined from the average net salary of 2016. So far, this has been according to the average salary of the year preceding the year of retirement to avoid future imbalances of users depending on the year of retirement. The base is increasing depending on the number of days in the fighting sector 0.50 kuna per day of participation in the fighting sector. Users who are entitled to a minimum pension before the entry into force of the new law will also be able to obtain an add-on depending on the length of participation in the fighting sector. The 2018 estimate is an additional 64 million kuna for 32,000 users who will achieve a higher minimum pension. An age pension, an age to go to the retirement pension of a Croatian defender from the Homeland War compared to the age prescribed by the Pension Insurance Act is reduced by four months if he participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the fighting sector from 100 days to five months or for one month for each month to participate in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the fighting sector if he participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the fighting sector for more than five months. Under the applicable law, the retirement pension could not be more than the amount of the pension determined on the basis of 40 years of the total pension standing. The bill abolished that restriction. The level of pension of each defender also depends on the number of days in the fighting sector, unlike the model so far, where, when increasing personal points for the calculation of pensions, the days in the non-combat sector were also included. An estimate for 2019 of an additional 25 million kuna. We also predicted the possibility of working on a pension. Working with an old age pension until half full-time without suspending or reducing pensions, working on pensions due to partial loss of working ability to work full-time while reducing pensions by respecting the pension factor 0.66667 and not subject to a review before and after the start of employment. Work on disability pensions due to total loss of work capacity, less than 3.5 hours a day without suspending or reducing pensions, and before and after the start of employment, they are not subject to a review. Family pension, expansion of the user circle to family pension according to this law to children and spouses and extramarital spouses, dead Croatian wartime disabled third and fourth groups who used to death the right to supplement the care and assistance of another person from 40 years of age. Under the current Law of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War, only married or out-of-marriage comrades of the deceased Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War 1st and 2nd group who used to death the right to add to the care and assistance of another person to do so only if at the time of the death of the Croatian defender they were 40 years old. Enabling the right to a family pension under this law for married or extramarital spouses and children of dead Croatian defenders with 50 years of age on condition that at the time of the death of a Croatian defender they are 40 years old. So far, it has been achieved by widows' rights under the Pension Insurance Act at the age of 50 if at the time of the death of the Croatian defender they had 45 years of life. The estimate for 2019 is 67 million kuna. The peace rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families. Members of the HVO and members of their families through a proposal for a new law shall be able to protect acquired rights. There are currently 6,804 persons with disabilities and family pensions under the contract between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on co-operation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in BiH who were members of the HVO and members of their families and about 6,000 users of the disability and family pension achieved by 2000 under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families. Expansion of pension rights, the right to invalidity pension to members of the HVO, wartime military disabled with 100% damage to the first group's organism based on both disease and injury. First on disability pension, they couldn't make it by contract and we expect 50 new users. The right to a disability pension for those who have not submitted a request within a month of being in force under the current contract we expect 500 new users. Realising the right to a family pension for members of the HVO family on the basis of death from the consequences of injury, injury, illness or suicide, we expect about 500 new users. Realising the right to a family pension for members of the families of the dead military disabled members of the HVO who were beneficiaries of the disability pension under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Achieving the right to a family pension for family members and deceased members of the HVO whose individual members have already exercised the right to a family pension on the basis of a solution to the recognised right to a family disability. Estimate for 2019 increases 17 million kuna. In the proposal for a new law, we specifically focused on the right to housing, given that it is currently on the housing list of 11 thousand 536 users in order to speed up, measures have been introduced. Housing care with financial support has been extended for all purposes of housing. Allowed the purchase of individual affected users of state-owned apartments and the ownership of units of local self-government. The exemption has also been extended to financial support, a model of organised housing that will be attended by the Croatian Defence Ministry and thus have the possibility of supervision. Enabling and facilitating the use of a wider circle of state-owned real estate. Expansive circle of possible property owners who own property adequate for residential care. The deadlines for housing are set for groups. At the expense of the Croatian Defence Ministry other than the principal, the payment and interest generated by the repayment of the loan is foreseen. This is an additional 15 million kuna in 2018. We have also envisaged employment measures, the right to take advantage of employment has been extended, mechanisms have been prescribed to facilitate the implementation, i.e. respect of this provision by the employer. Protection of employees of Croatian defenders, tax reliefs have been introduced for employers who employ children of the mortally injured or missing Croatian defenders, only pay contributions for pensioners. We are introducing compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders, the right to replace the 2014 supply, it has been transferred to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. Compared to the previous supply, a circle of users has been extended to children of the mortally injured or missing Croatian defenders and after they have ceased their right to a family disability or to a family disability or to a money compensation from a family invalid and a spouse or an extramarital friend of the dead Croatian wartime wartime wartime wartime warlord or a dead Croatian defender from the Homeland War. In contrast to the provision, the amount of the compensation depends on the number of days in the defense of sovereignty and the amount of the compensation will be higher for those with the maximum number of days. According to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, 82 000 889 Croatian defenders are not employed and are not retired. In 2013, there were about 6 thousand users of the supply, guaranteed a minimum fee of 3900. The estimate for 2018 is 7 000 900 users for which we and the Ministry of Finance predicted 101 million kuna. Measures in terms of education, accommodation in social care institutions, advantage in the lease of business space, re-use of agricultural land, extras for house assistance, the right to compensation for the cost of personal car adjustment, the right to psychosocial assistance, the addition to children, defence thank-yous. What I particularly want to say is that we have foreseen measures to facilitate the burial, i.e. The insurance of the grave, the cost of burial with military honors, the maintenance of graves. The Croatian Defence Ministry carries the cost of burying and transporting remains of the mortally injured Croatian defender and outside the Republic of Croatia. The grave places with remains of the Croatian Homeland War defender behind which there are no living heirs cannot be considered abandoned. The members of the family of the missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War have been granted the right to the burial place. The financial impact according to the PFU model in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 for the implementation of this law is planned to add an additional 219.2 million kuna to the position of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Another 64 million kuna was planned at the position of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System in 2018. According to the Ministry of Finance's projections, an additional 245 million kuna for pension rights and laws have been planned at the position of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System as of 1 January 2019. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I call on all MPs and representatives for a unique approach to the adoption of laws that are most responsible for the defence of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50224	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive and informative presentation that caused 15 replicas. The first one came to the line from Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50225	Dear Ministers, here after a long time, your idea of passing a single and comprehensive law lies before us parliamentary representatives and which is good in two readings. I just asked you through the replica, it was said on August 24th in Knin at a cabinet session that the law will start from 1.1.2018, however, after a public debate, now that the defender's office has appeared that they know that the law will start from 1.1.2019, means a year behind and especially would like to mention here, since you are now mentioning that the Homeland War is essentially what we all say, the foundation of the modern Croatian state and Croatian defenders are really supposed to be an institution but the fact that we have to stop for all of these proposals and discussions in this reading, we need to stop statements from your coalition partners, we also see that it is increased and mortality and it is not the dignity of the Homeland War, if your coalition partner Milorad Pupovac, compared General Bobetko with Slobodan Milosevic, Slavko Dokmanović and Milan Babić. It is not the dignity of the Homeland War if we only talk about eleven dead Croatian defenders from the HOS while in Croatia we have Chetnik monuments. Shocker and others, and it is not a dignity for the Croatian state not to be of Vučić Chetnik, who commented on this law, to ask for it, and you can do it as a representative of the Government, and we, the Parliament, are supported, the war damage of 45 billion euros, and will be for this Law on Croatian defenders and for all other social categories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50226	Thank you, thank you. Minister, later, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. The second replica, gave up one of the MPs, the third replica of the esteemed colleague Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50227	I thank the President, Your Honor. In your presentation, of course you mentioned and related to pension insurance rights, we absolutely support a fairer way of distribution compared to participation in the fighting sector, but I would like to point out one calculation that is happening now and that will happen afterwards. In terms of calculation and personal points and the value of the factor for the calculation of the pension, we know that the lowest prescribed pension is about 2,600 kuna. Namely, the person who goes to early retirement with 35, the defenders, we're talking about defenders who have 100 or 200 days of the fighting sector, who goes into early retirement has less, means 35 years of internships, than someone who's gone into an old age without a day's internship. Also, people who go into retirement, so we talk when they turn 65 and I commend the part that reduces age-limits also to the number of days spent in the fighting sector, but these same number of days in the fighting sector are worth about 4 years, to equalize with that supplement that does not apply to pensions under a special regulation, is said of 27% that apply to all others, which go according to the Retirement Insurance Act. So that part doesn't even up, and we come to the point that someone with an average salary of about 4,000 to four and a half, has defenders, too, has less, so this won't affect him. And he'll have the same pension as someone who was five or five days old. In my opinion, of course, we don't need to penalize defenders who don't have an internship, but we certainly need to think about those who have spent their entire lives paying their pension contributions, doing their whole lives to end up having those 2,600 kuna minimum guaranteed pensions as well as those who haven't had a day's internship if we're saying they have the same number of days spent in the fighting sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50228	Thank you. The fourth replica, the esteemed representative of Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50229	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I dare say that the Law on Croatian Defence is one of the most important laws in this term that I am convinced this House will accept. The analysis of the healthcare system has shown the specific needs of the defence population, and in this sense, I welcome the improvement of health policies towards Croatian defenders in a law that has 219 articles, 11 articles and 30 places mention the concept of psyche, or mental illness. We know that a significant number of Croatian defenders unfortunately committed suicide, mentioning the concept of psycho-social assistance, psycho-social empowerment. The National Centre for Psycho Trauma, you have already mentioned that it has already started with systematic reviews and if we look at the socio-demographic characteristics of Croatian defenders then we can certainly place them in a risky population and it is therefore extremely important that this law includes improving health rights. I would also mention that already after 1995 it started with the establishment of a psychosocial assistance centre, and since 1999 there has been a national strategy, however, the fact is that it is not the same situation in 2017 as it was 10 or 20 years ago, and on that side it is important to pass a completely new law on Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50230	Next replica, dear colleague Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected Croatian Defence Ministers, restoring dignity to Croatian defenders through the regulation of all rights through this proposal that you have brought forth a new law yourself, you are making a huge step towards an important topic, which is uniting the rights of defenders through one law. This law establishes a fairer way of determining the amount of individual rights, depending on the time spent in defending the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. For every commendation, this is how the bill was prepared. You, Mr. Minister, are like the one who has made a great contribution to the defence of the homeland, presenting the proposal of this law very openly and specifically, presented all the problems that are being imposed in the defence population, but also offered, as we have said here slowly all those who appear, a new legal framework that we are seeing, you and the ministry have already slowly and met, which is that many ministries participate in the rights of defenders and then each defender is slowly lost in that forest. The exclusive intention I saw in this defense new bill is that you put everything in one place as a new proposal and a new framework and thus provided an opportunity to see also in those defenders who did not exercise their rights, one step. So, who runs the high ground, i.e. To restore dignity, not only to the defender, but also to the dignity and dignity of the Homeland War. That's why, I believe, with this kind of approach, the core that you've approached today, it's going to come across the support of everyone here in the House, and we're not dealing with other issues today, but only with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50232	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50233	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear ministers, dear guests, colleagues and colleagues. I have listened to this presentation several times already, the Law on Croatian Defences and the minister claims that it is a worrying fact that defenders are dying. So dying is a natural process. All die both doctors and teachers and parliamentary representatives, Prime Ministers, children, it doesn't mean anything in itself. So I assume that you actually wanted to say something else, which is that Croatian defenders, as a social category, have a lower age structure, so they die earlier than some other social categories. I expected that since you gave us here two books printed in the ministry's cost, with a number of statistics, you would say something about it, therefore, that you would compare the age of defenders with some other occupations. Let's say, with firemen, with pyrotechnics, with miners or some of those other hard-working, there's no such thing. So I ask you, if you are already going out with a claim like that, to inform the public, what is the exact data, what is the exact statistics. You have the resources, you have the Department of Statistics, we have the demographics, we have the employment of the ministry. So please give them the job, too, because this claim that defenders die doesn't say anything for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50234	Next up is my esteemed colleague, Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50235	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, you were mostly talking about the positive aspects of this law, however, I would warn you of some things you didn't mention. In fact, you forgot to mention that in addition to predicting the lowest pensions, all other pension rights provided for in the new law will not apply to persons retired before the entry into force of this law. You also forgot to mention that the law will not apply to defenders, who have exercised their rights under the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance, active military personnel, police officers and authorised officials whose pensions, although they are Croatian defenders and volunteers, are far less due to the lack of certain provisions and the Law on Croatian defenders, all contrary to the principle of equality on which our legal system rests. I also listened to your speech, and you said in your statements several times, as the idea that this law should be comprehensive and that all the rights which are distributed in other legal areas should be united in it. If you have succeeded in this, it will show time, however, I would remind you of several legal solutions, which do not contribute to your statement on the unification of all dispersed rights in one whole law, because the achievement of the medical and pension insurance arrangements, and the rights based on physical damage, are achieved by other regulations, and not by this proposal. I don't have time to read these articles now, so it's not entirely true that this law has united all the rights of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50236	Next up, dear colleague Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50237	Dear Mr. Bear, I'd like to welcome this law that we've actually been waiting for for for a long time, because I think after 20 years, it took a law that would unite everything and that we had to restore the dignity of the Homeland War. What you'd really like is that I'm sorry you didn't list two categories of those who weren't supposed to be at war. In the Homeland War there were women who had no obligation, 23 thousand women were in the Homeland War, 127 women died. They were minor defenders of 3.5 thousand, Vukovar himself defended 96 minor defenders, the youngest Igor Kacic, 16 years old, was found buried in Ovcara and 46 died. No matter how much you say they will be able to exercise their rights or be volunteers of the Homeland War, I think those two categories deserve a special one item and say that all women and all minors of the Croatian Army are volunteers at the same time, if they were women who were in the fighting sector. I would refer again to the story of whether to write who was the aggressor and who participated and fought against Croatia. What Vukic says against this law amuses me just as much as sharing passports with foreign actors. What saddens me is that a Croatian Parliament MP speaks for Serbian media against this law, and members of his nationality together with us fought in the Homeland War. One of them is my friend Dracha, the captain of the company who ran out of legs and did it all the way to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50238	Thank you, fellow Foreign You can't, I'm sorry time's up. [[Strenja raid: Let me finish yet.]] Thank you. Next up, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50239	Thank you, Your Honor. On this occasion, I would like to read a letter from a Croatian defender, he says: "Dearly, this is the way I want to address the Croatian Assembly through the esteemed Mr. Pernar who has made it possible for me. This is about the following, I am the bearer of the National War monument and decorated by the Order of the Croatian Cross and I have an officer's post. In 1992, I was sent from the Borongaj military to the warground in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 108. HVO Brigade, I've been hit twice and easier once. After long treatment in Zagreb and several medical committees, I was in '98. Got HRVs with 50% damage starting in 1996. But there are problems, after more questions to me my solution was never addressed, only 17 years after the law passed by Fred Matic, which abolished my solution under the pretext that I fought in HVO. I, after my lawsuit to the Administrative Court of Osijek, find out that this solution really exists. How is it possible for the Ministry of Defense to hide the solution for 17 years and which has not been delivered to this day? The question is, did anyone use my pension since there's a manual number of solutions and why is no one responsible for the will of the state authorities? Thank you. Ivo Marojevic, Vinkovačka 35 32726 Rokovci’. And what's this about? It is about the fact that the Croatian man sent them to fight in HVO, and then when he fought in HVO they told him when he came back wounded, behold, you did not fight in the Croatian military but in the HVO, so I wonder what the ministry plans to do about these cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50240	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister. In conversations with people, especially defenders, I haven't come across anyone who hasn't praisedly expressed himself about this law that's been prepared, so you can be proud of it as the minister who did it. However, I have responded to the replica, or to a little clarification in Article 29, which discusses encouraging the employment of age - pensioners. So until halftime without freezing a pension and about the right to recalculate after a year spent in employee status. I was warned to draw attention to this article because it says that after one year of internship or termination of employment, the pensioner has the right to recalculate pensions but under the law of the general regulation. So it might happen that those defenders who would do it would eventually have a smaller pension than they had before they quit their retirement and went to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50242	Replica number ten, dear colleague Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50243	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. First of all, I commend this guide who is related to this Law on Defence, which is good for both the first and second readings, and everything is as transparent as this demographic and socioeconomic study that was first made out of which to read a lot of what you were saying in your opening presentation. Since it's a replica and a short time, I'd like to refer to something you may have said in a hurry, but I'm glad you were watching out for that. Namely, you said and talked about a unique body of art in the Republic of Croatia where there are also a large number of defenders, almost all of them, but at this point it's about 40,000 unsolved items. It's not a small number, it's a large number. I remember very well that the former government in 2013 received one World Bank loan of almost 70 million euros and one part of these funds, in fact, almost 4 million kunas, should have been for the unification and harmonisation of the art and administration procedures. What's good with this law definitely, and maybe not much to talk about is that a special organisational unit was created within the unique body of art that would help many Croatian defenders. I think this is something to be very careful about, I know from experience that these skills take a long time and that they cause great frustration in ordinary citizens, especially in the population of Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50244	Thank you. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50245	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Both HSS and I personally support the adoption of the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families. And surely through this law, we should regulate the status of defenders, improve their status, restore the dignity of the Homeland War. Because we who are in '91. were in the fighting sector and helped those who were in the non-combat sector we then took a rifle and defended our home, wanted to save their family, wanted to create a country not to flee from it to Germany or some other country. Because if we ran away we wouldn't be here today, we wouldn't have our own country. Why am I pointing that out? Because here I bring you welcome to the defender of Brod-Posavina County. There is one fear of not implementing the law as is the practice in the Republic of Croatia. Because you mentioned in your presentation more than 88 thousand unemployed defenders and we had a law where employers had a duty to hire and defend themselves. That's what you see in 88 grand it didn't happen. And they want to say that those who are able to work, want to contribute to the development of Croatia as they dreamed of, wanted in '91. Not to be pushed into retirement. I welcome, of course, the expansion of the possibility of retirement and the increase of pensions but those who are working are willing and able to work. In order to work, however, it is a question of what you and the government and other ministers can do to create new jobs, especially in Slavonia, to stimulate the employer to hire defenders. And what's more dangerous today than a '91 bullet. And that's that most defenders who are employed work on a contract for a certain time and work for a minimum salary of 2.5 thousand kuna which is too little and it's more dangerous than a '91 bullet. They're going to Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50246	Thanks, buddy. Next replica, dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50247	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am expressing concern regarding your exposure which is not supported by financial data as to how much the defence law package will cost Croatian taxpayers. Because it is very clear that we are not able to finance Croatian defenders' pensions from contributions and that they are expanding and covering but that some new rights are being introduced. On the other hand, I would like to appeal to the minister to agree with the Minister of Labour and Pension System because we are creating different types of pensioners in Croatia. If we allow Croatian defenders to work for 4 hours regardless of how they are retired, we must allow that to happen to our pensioners who are in early retirement who do not allow it. On the other hand, I'd like the minister to explain to me or one of his associates if someone has a general incompetence to work how can they work? Which is why, if so, if he is completely incompetent to work, how can he get out of that pension and go to work? No employer will hire him. And these are the questions that should be resolved so as not to create two types of pensioners, one under this law and the other under the Pension Insurance Act. Or you can even it out because you're extending pensioners' rights under the Law on Croatian Defence, and according to the Pension Insurance Act, the other thing is to call ordinary pensioners that they have no right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50248	Thank you. The 13th replica of the esteemed colleague, Dodig, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50249	Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. On this occasion, I would like to express my satisfaction that we have material serious on page 137, 219, and two more brochures. So the seriousness that you have come to draft this law also speaks of your attitude towards Croatian defenders. I'd like to add the following. The law that we will bring to another reading, and in the end, it depends much more on it than on what it means by itself. There'll be a lot of amendments, I'm sure they'll improve it. But I would like to stress that the seriousness to which we must approach this law is the seriousness which contains more and more attempts to correct the tendency to degrade the Homeland War, Croatian defenders and the Croatian state. With this law, I am convinced that we will partially stand in the way of such tendencies. Because without the proper evaluation of the Homeland War, Croatian defenders have no appreciation of the Croatian state. That is why I support and will study this law in detail and participate in his final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50250	Thank you. It is now up to the respected representative Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50251	Thank you, Mr. President. We welcome the government's decision to pass one whole law that includes all rights of the defence population. But we expected a lot more from this law. First of all, in a way that this law is not in fact the separation of the defence population within our society as an absolutely privileged group, which unfortunately happened with this law and we think in GLAS it is completely disproportionate to the law, meaning it is not proportionate to the financial predominance of the Republic of Croatia, the pension fund in the Republic of Croatia, and it is neither proportionate in general in the economy nor in the social situation of the Republic of Croatia. And I believe that a good part of our political elite will welcome exactly this particular majority, meaning HDZ and partners, but we must express criticism because we represent not only defenders here, we do not represent certain stakeholders but we represent all citizens in the Croatian Assembly. So I'm asking Mr. Minister if anyone has thought about what the law thinks about those who work at the cash registers in Konzum who may not be doing tomorrow, who receive 2,800 kuna? What do citizens who receive an average pension of 3 400 kuna who have worked full-time for 40 years or who receive an average pension of 2,200 kuna that has come from work? And we are now further increasing rights for which I am not against, but I am against it in a way because the dignity of Croatian defenders and the Homeland War can neither be bought... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50252	Thank you very much, Mrs Turina-Đurić, I ask you to stick to the order as everyone else does. It's my dear colleague, Beus Richembergh. [[Turina-Đurić: Thank you, I'm sorry.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I think it is a great shame for the Croatian Parliament to pass such a law in 2017. 22 years after the Homeland War, the Croatian Parliament acknowledges that so far all authorities have neither protected nor respected those who carried out on their shoulders or on their wounds or on their lives, the Homeland War. So that's one thing to underline. It's a shame that 22 years after the war, we need to talk about basic things. That's the first thing. The second thing, it is also a shame that such laws re-implant the status of the second and third order of citizens in Croatia. For years in this House, we've been talking about it. That the same kind of disability should not be discriminatory. That a man who doesn't have a hand regardless of whether this damage occurred in the war as in the fighting sector or in the military, as a civilian, as someone born without a hand, as someone who acquired it, that disability in a car accident or an accident at work. And this law confirms that there are citizens of the first and second order, although they have equal disability. Furthermore, it should also be said that the country that has driven thousands and thousands of people in the best of strength, in the flower of youth in retirement and made them people who could not make a concrete and quality contribution to the future of this country. Today, there are many people among them who have left not only their youth but also the perspective of their families at the bar, at the bookshops, at the social bottom because they turned their backs. But also, Mr. Minister, in Croatia, we are now passing a law that will cost us five and a half billion kuna by 2025. As of this year, the obligation to cover new rights defined by this law has increased exponentially, which is 5 and a half billion kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50254	After the replica, I would like to call on the rapporteur of the Obera legislation and the Committee on War Veterans if they want to take the floor. Dear counterpart Djakic, chairman of the War Veterans Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50255	... Mr. Secretary of State, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I welcome all present at the gallery, guests especially Croatian defenders, disabled and president of the 100% disabled. So the report of the War Veterans Committee on the Proposal for a Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families, which proposed Law No 174, at its 6th session held on 19 September 2017, discussed the proposal of the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government in an act of 4 August 2017. The Committee held the hearing as a parent body, in accordance with the provisions of Article 91. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. According to the proposing representatives, the proposal for a new law aims to address the issue of defence-sustaining populations in a comprehensive way, i.e. to enable the most responsible for the creation of the Republic of Croatia's necessary and comprehensive care. The bill is the result of the inter-resorship cooperation of all competent authorities that care for Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. The current law has been amended and complemented more than 10 times, and it mainly prescribed the rights of Croatian wartime wartime peoples from the Homeland War and family members, the deadly victims of Croatian defenders. The need for a defence-suffering population 22 years after the end of the war has changed significantly. The new legislative proposal more precisely defines certain concepts and institutes, harmonizes the name of the law with its contents, deletes the provisions which have proved unnecessary, regulates the status rights, in particular as regards the opening of the deadline for obtaining the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War. Protection of the bankruptcy rights of members of the HVO and strengthening the regional units of the ministry. The proposal for a law against the applicable law brings a number of new developments in the exercise of pension rights, the reduction of the age-limit for retirement, the increase of the personal pension point, the possibility of employment already in the pension of defenders without suspending pensions, etc. Employment rights, foresees tax reliefs for employers who employ defenders and victims, better quality and more precisely regulates the provisions on priority in employment, on equal terms. Rights of housing, expansion of financial support for other purposes as well. It enables the use of property owned by a state that has not been in office for a long time for the housing of defenders and victims. In the model organised residential construction, to control the participation of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Proposed law, new categories are introduced and a participant of the Homeland War and a dead Croatian defender and members of their family. The Institute of Monetary Compensation for Unemployed Defendors is also being introduced instead of supplies. It criticises the right to the grave site, the maintenance of grave sites, and the cost of total dead defenders. The register of Croatian defenders will no longer be made publicly available. A thank-you note has been made available by the Croatian Defence Minister, individuals and units for participation in the action of the Republic of Croatia. It is possible to obtain the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War, based on disease, a systematic review is being introduced, for all Croatian defenders, every 3 years. For the implementation of the novelty provided for by this bill, it will be necessary in 2018 in the state budget at the position of the Croatian Defence Ministry to provide 219.2 million kuna. And at the position of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System 64 million kuna. The following comments and proposals and opinions were presented in the debate that followed. The bill has made great progress compared to the current one, and it would be good to reach a consensus. It is also necessary to consider the possibilities for this law to become as required by defence associations or by organic or constitutional organisations. That is, to enter into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is the desire of defense associations. Not enough... Facilitation for the employment of Croatian defenders and victims, the family pensioner's circle is expanding, as it is an age limit of 40 years. age too low, and the same right should be tied to property censorship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Legally for the re-use of agricultural land, more specifically for the avoidance of possible malfeasances. By introducing regular systematic checks for Croatian defenders, diseases will be detected in due time to reduce their mortality. It is expressed satisfaction with the possibility of achieving status and for members of national protection, but at the same time expressed concern that the implementation, which is in charge of the defence ministry, will be a problem in the head of which the labour law is prescribed, should be, must be, must be, must be, must be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, in the possession of the units of local and regional self-government units, which shall not be, so far be the case. Because there are opportunities to hire Croatian defenders. Data related to the list of all outstanding and inadequate claims of credit-users from the credit-based employment programme have been requested... Members of the Croatian Army prescribed Article 2014. a bill of law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is, the total amount that is written off, to which it is written off, and whether the funds have been spent on purpose. The minister promised to submit the requested information to the board, i.e. to the members until the debate on the draft law at the plenary session. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously, with 9 votes in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to draw the following conclusions. Under 1 the proposal of the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their family and under 2, all comments, proposals and opinions shall be made in the debate, will be addressed to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50256	Thank you, colleague Djakic. And now we're going to a club debate. The first came to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, with their associates, respected Croatian defenders in the assembly and in front of TV screens. Dear Mr. Minister, we welcome and support your idea and initiative on the adoption of a single and comprehensive law on the rights of Croatian defenders. The law has been amended 10 times, however, Croatian defenders deserve to discuss this law in the most public and transparent way. And in particular, I support you for the fact that only in the first 4 months, 1085 defenders died, on average 50 years. The extreme mortality of the people of the Homeland War, the emigrants of the Homeland War, is below average, we see that young people die and leave their families. As far as you have succeeded in your intention, it will show satisfaction to the defenders themselves, as well as to the compensation of the impact assessment of this law, which the ministry will give to the Parliament in two years' time. In particular, we should highlight positive examples of the proposal in this law, which is dispersion. A higher amount of compensation for employees of defenders, who will be returned under the Croatian Defence Ministry. Already in meaning... the higher amount of minimum pensions, depending on the length of participation in the defence of the Republic of Croatia in the fighting sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A national health protection strategy, i.e. systematic reviews, which is the most positive thing, especially when we mention the mortality of Croatian defenders where on average many younger people die than the rest of the population. Opening... to recognise the status of Croatian defenders and Croatian wartime wartime disableds, based on their disease and that they will have the right to achieve people who did not have, meaning due to the deadlines adopted by the HDZ government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Lowering the age limit for retirement, which also depends on the length of participation in the defence of the Republic of Croatia in the fighting sector, housing time limits, protected rights for members of the HVO and members of their families. I welcome the intention to equalise the rights of all Croatian defenders, any Croatian military, any HVO. In particular, this is good for a positive 82 thousand Croatian defenders who are unemployed and many more positive examples that you have talked about and will talk about by colleagues. However, these measures may result in positive results if they are consistently applied with the financial means provided for in your presentation. Through an analysis of your bill, I would draw attention to some of the procedures in the very creation of this law and in your very presentation of what you should have mentioned in my opinion, and in your address and in your proposal of the law that will be given by the Club... The bridge and individually through the debates we hope you will respect some of our proposals and will answer these questions. You forgot to mention that in addition to carrying out the lowest pensions, all other pension rights provided for in the new law will not apply to persons retired before the entry into force of this law. You also forgot to mention that this law will not apply to defenders who have exercised their rights under the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees, Police Officers and Authorised Officials whose pensions, although they are Croatian defenders and volunteers of the Homeland War, are far less due to the lack of certain provisions of the Croatian Defence Act, contrary to the principle of equality on which our legal system rests. It is also forgotten that the return of the monthly cash right of former supplies by the Croatian Ministry of Defence for unemployed Croatian defenders who are currently receiving a guaranteed minimum fee and are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy did not depend on this law. I would remind you that during Minister Matic, you yourself said that the unemployed defenders were essentially transferred from the Ministry of Croatian Defence here, and you were also able to return to the Ministry of Defence and compensation without the adoption of this law. In your address to defenders, both through the idea and through the media, you could hear your statement that the main objectives of the main law are to unite in one law all rights which are distributed in other legal areas, which is positive that Croatian defenders do not go from ministry to ministry and be in one place. Did you succeed, it will show time or changes and additions to some other laws that may harm the defender. I'm talking maybe because some laws, and I'd like to explain how they apply to Croatian defenders, and they're not in this law, and I'd like to remind you of a few of your legal solutions that don't go at the hands of your statement on the unification of all dispersive rights, and I hope it will be changed in the final proposal in the second reading is the whole law. The exercise of health and pension rights and rights based on physical damage shall be carried out under other signatures, not under this proposal. As the most important element you forgot about the defence population, it is mentioned that at the government meeting in Knin 4.8.2017, you changed the deadlines of all pension insurance rights and moved from 1.1.2018 to 1.1.2019 means a year no matter what the public debate is, it is still true that Croatian defenders know it. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has so far written down 1829 loans totalling EUR 208 million, slightly more than 3655 loans totalling 319.5 million, the written-off loans account for 49.95% of the total number of loans granted. A total of 67 loans and 1.8% of the total number of loans were paid. In view of the above mentioned information, this provision shall write down the rest of the credits so far unrecorded. If these 67 loans will be paid back, the 67 that have recovered their loans will be in an unequal position towards those to which the loans will be written off. And very important, the Croatian Defence Register, can you explain, we are for the survival of the Croatian Defence Register. Why take down the Croatian Defence Register? In front of the Most Club, we can tell that this registry of defenders is available, but that the register of aggressors on the Republic of Croatia has committed crimes. Is if there should be equality, if there should be a register of proud Croatian defenders, I see no reason why you should hide the register of aggressors on the Republic of Croatia. We propose keeping the legal solution so far regarding rights acquired, as you yourself have told the defenders and the victims of the HVO. However, we wonder whether the basic elements for the conclusion of the international contract are agreed in a satisfactory way so as not to result in unwanted consequences of international disputes that could cost the Republic of Croatia. Through further discussion, MOST will propose concrete legal solutions that are not covered by this proposal and by your work of pre-election promises. We find that proposed legal solutions to defenders and victims of the Homeland War could be found through sources of war damage payments by those who have committed aggression against the Republic of Croatia and who could serve as a financial source for the exercise of the rights of this bill. The Minister's question is why is it silenced that the overall assessment of direct and indirect damage to the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War for aggression so-called. Republika Srpska's, Serbia, Montenegro and JNA's armies amount to over 300 billion kuna, according to estimates by the Ministry of Labour and Social Care and State Audit for the census and assessment of war damage. We also believe through the debate that all the proposals are with your intention and the law and the effort that the ministry has made that we have one law that will unite the rights. I have also made some remarks if, I hope, you will accept them in the interest of all Croatian defenders of the foundation of the Croatian state who created the Republic of Croatia, the unity of all Croats and national minorities and, above all, the Serb national minority. At the end of what I would tell you, what hurt the most Croatian defenders was the abolition of the right when dignity was arrested, pride, when it was located, arrested, transferred Croatian defenders, accused them, and therefore the biggest deviations in Croatian society appeared and therefore Croatian defenders felt the most about what was happening and especially what was happening at the time the Croatian state was robbed of INA, Telecom, the sale of banks, everything that happened in my city, the money for the weapons for which it was intended, for the defence of the Republic and the Cetinski region went into the hands of the tycoons. I believe it is never resolved that the Croatian defender and you and the Government and we parliamentary representatives can pass a fair law to Croatian defenders, respecting each other. '91. He didn't ask anyone who was in the SDP, who was in HDZ, who was a Serb. That is why I am saddened by the fact as in the conversation with Croatian defenders that more time has devoted itself to the 11th Croatian defenders than the criminals who have erected their monuments in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore your duty to stop your coalition partner, Milorad Pupovac, who compared General Janko Bobetko, who was a member of the first Sisak Partizan squad, as compared him to war criminals Ratko Mladic, Babic and others and Dokmanovic. This must not be allowed in the Croatian state to disembark a man who is now president of Republika Srpska, a Chetnik, Vukic sends messages about the Croatian Law on Defence. They are the only thing that ministers can do to make it worth all these 400 billion kunas at the expense of the Croatian State and to achieve these rights, our defenders and other rights. Once again, Minister, I know you've had a noble intention and you've put a lot of effort into this law. I have personally participated through the board and I hope that together we will find the best solution to the status of our defenders, to those most responsible for this country, to the defenders of Croatian nationality, to Serbian nationality, to the SDP, to either the HDZ or to any other party. Croatian defenders, together we fought for our country, together we fight for the future of our children, stop what is bad and fight for our children to survive here. That's the most important thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50258	The exposure of his colleagues, Bulja, caused five replicas. First came the honorary colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50259	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a brief question, in the context of the war damage that you've discussed commenting on Prime Minister Vukic's statements directly entangled in this law and threatening to pass 500 laws that would harm Croatian defenders, is that the end of this diplomatic, or in some way offensive that wants to prevent this law? Will some other countries also have objections in the neighborhood and will they pressure this law? So how do you comment that here's a self-proclaimed Chetnik duke meddling in our laws and directly threatening? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50260	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, the war damage that has been done is occupied by a third of the Republic of Croatia and we have many deaths, both Croatian defenders and civilians, damaged and that is what is worst. However, the Croatian Government, instead of fighting for these damages, was exclusively courting and engaged in locations, transfers of the most prominent Croatian sons, so that today, Croatian defenders, the parliamentary representative, would speak and compare with these aggressors to our general, our General Bobetko. That's not allowed. We as a state must fight that there is no legal jurisdiction what the Croatian government has done over Croatian defenders,.../The speaker does not understand. They must not remain a hunting ground and judge Croatian aggressors, it has never happened in history. I think the defense attorneys would be here, too, if the Secretary of Defense were here on this side. We must not allow the agreement to be signed by the Croatian government, with Serbs, with the EU in negotiations to miss them and the jurisdiction of Croatian defenders to have Serbs. Croatian diplomacy must be fought for money and war damage, 45 billion euros made by Serbia, Montenegro and part of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. This way I repeat again, we should thank the people of Serbian nationality who stood with us in the trench and who defended the Republic, I personally have them in our place, and we should highlight that. This isn't hate speech, but we can't let the Chetnik Duke, i.e. The assistants of the Chetnik dukes, the watermen Vukic and other Shessel's assistants manage the laws and how we should write. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50262	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50263	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bulj, therefore, I fully agree with you that this legislative proposal should be supported and, of course, commended and resolutely commended by the ministry, all defence associations and all those members of the political parties and all those involved in preparing such a legal proposal and, of course, we expect the ministry to respect these remarks that we will make during this first reading debate to change. This law is important, this is a respected colleague Djakic speaking on behalf of the board as he extends rights not only to members of HRVI but to all defenders and it is very important and it is important in the law to write about the defence family, you emphasized it and that is Mr Bulj, very important because these families have been through since the war on here everything that Croatian defenders have been going through. And today they pass along with them, and their sicknesses, and all that plague them. However, the essence of my replica is reflected about this resolute ministry, the Croatian government must really do everything to make sure that this is not just a dead letter left on paper, to find the means, that all the provisions of this law are respected and what it would particularly like to point out, and I hope that in the future we will all in some way control this whole story, and especially not just this ministry, but all the ministries that are tasked with this being a transparent procedure, that this law is accompanied by an orderly system, that what happened in the past does not happen to us that some of us who do not deserve the rights come, and those who should exercise those rights cannot come to them. And just one remark, here you may be able to comment on article 121 of this law, I think there was an observation where the minister decides that by his own autonomous decision, he can decide on one-time assistance to the defenders. I don't think such provisions in the law are good, let them be commissions, let them go through some procedure, don't say the minister has bad intentions, but it can happen that someone's misreading it. So that's one of the provisions of the law that we should pay attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50264	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50265	Well, I would agree with you, but this law provides for one more thing. So what's very important is the empowerment of the Croatian Defence Ministry's regional units. So decentralisation of the Croatian Defence Ministry on the ground means that people who are in underdeveloped areas, people who simply do not have the opportunity to exercise their right, must come from Dalmatia, Slavonia to Zagreb and that it means better to decentralisation human potentials, on the ground and to monitor the possibilities of all defenders. or the inability to exercise their rights would certainly make it much easier, not to be the Ministry of Defense, in that work it is also decentralised but not sufficiently. Many people are instructed to seek their rights in Zagreb while they are received by one secretary, another, third, in this law mentions this decentralisation of human resources, I think it is very important that they exercise their rights. As far as this law is concerned, it's in the first reading, in the talks we're having right now, there's no reason for the minister not to hear it, in fact it's an obligation, I hope that in the second reading of all of this possibly worse, this legislation will be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50266	Third replica, dear colleague of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50267	Your Honor. Col. Bulj, you were talking about the bad things of this law, you pointed out the positive ones, and you talked about the dignity of Croatian defenders, you talked about how many of them die before the time and I think it's not just about the relationship between the government and the official Croatian policy towards the Homeland War, to those who are aggressors to the Republic of Croatia, it's not just about the prime minister keeping quiet about the statements of his coalition partner Milorad Pupovac, the problem is that let's say the public and citizens have some negative impression of Croatian defenders because many of those who did not deserve defence rights have achieved it. And it's certainly necessary to ask, you know how much I appreciate you for your contribution to the Homeland War, I was a child then, so at the time of the Homeland War of 11 years, and I appreciate all the people who have made a real contribution, but I think we should particularly deal with those who have earned rights and have not earned those rights. Also, it can't happen to us, you were talking about how some people paid off their loans, so you mentioned 67 loans paid off, while other people got those credits paid off. There cannot be some kind of inequality, every man and every Croatian defender if the defender really is the same, and we also had a situation in this High House, there are some people who used the Ministry of Defence for privileged loans, building apartments and then going to bribe journalists. Those who used defence rights should be strictly sanctioned because they only damaged the state but destroyed the dignity of the true Croatian defenders and the team should be put to rest because then the entire Croatian public, young generations, I am a professor of history and I taught children about the Homeland War From that young generation then they have a negative impression of Croatian defenders. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50268	Comrade Thunderbolt, look how many of you you are. 18 seconds, not much. A fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50269	Yes, the Homeland War is sacred to all, we all have our own ways of war. I personally have my own war route as a defender, you could show, as well as the minister, as well as everyone here defends. But those who used, that loan, I think these 67 returned, probably, these others were incapacitated... the terms, but the fact is that these rights must be evened out in this case when you mentioned 67 people who returned the loan and I believe the minister will find that solution to this 67. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fact that many also built apartments from some of the funds subsidized by the Ministry of Defence, that and because of the announcement, journalists attacked it. I believe that the Ministry of Croatian Defence, exclusively this law writes for people who have been in the Homeland War, who feel the consequences in any way and of course to protect the dignity of the Homeland War and that the Homeland War is the foundation of the Croatian state and most important to be in history, you are a historian, and when you lecture, the truth about the Homeland War, that this should be valued. I forgot to tell people who were self-initiated like Petar Malbaš and many others made documentary films without the support of the state, that the state was very important to the truth about the Homeland War, and not that the Prime Minister Plenkovic did not answer the question he himself asked about the case of his coalition partner's statement, that the truth was being reversed, that the aggressor was being glorified, and that Croatian defenders, as in the case of the dead, 11 Kosovoers, were being told about them all summer. I therefore believe that we should work as hard as possible on the truth about the Croatian soldier who was magnificent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50270	Thank you. 4 replicas, respected colleague of Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50271	Dear colleague Bulj, I'm glad you said, what is actually the position of our club and the position of many defenders, which is that the defence registry should remain public. Croatian defenders have nothing to be ashamed of and if they have nothing, they should have dignity and as you said you would introduce a category of participants in the Homeland War, because it is only an honor. It's an honor to be in that register. Also, I'm glad you mentioned, because it's time to say there's a registry of aggressors. Never when we were at war could we imagine that one Satnimirovic would one day be an honorary parliamentary representative. A party member who is still part of the ruling structure and holds your authority, and in fact, around for Serbian media speaks against this law. What we need to know is that no Croatian soldier has ever set foot on the ground of the Republic of Serbia, but we know who was the aggressor and where they were and who they fought against. And for that reason, I believe that the defence register should remain public, but there should also be a registry of aggressors, in which it should be all those who are citizens of this country today, but were also those who raped and walked the streets of Vukovar and their victims, still looking at them around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50272	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50273	I fully agree that you need to register the defenders, because the fact, as you mentioned, is that in Vukovar, persons who, women who have been raped and tortured, are today viewed by their testimony, statements, people of their rapists and their executioners, therefore there are none, even according to their testimony to work in state institutions. Therefore, I believe that the registry should also come out, that we have nothing to fear about and publish, except for equality. And I insist on that, and on behalf of the club, what I said was that register done. We have nothing to protect the criminals, we have nothing to protect the Republic of Serbia, to judge Croatian defenders, when they enter the EU, that the Croatian state, that diplomacy allows them, we cannot allow it. The Croatian defender, you said well, did not step foot in either Nis in Belgrade or beyond its borders or millimeters. Except for the international agreements in our neighbouring country here. Therefore, where Croats live, the HVO has done its job in defence. It is exclusively necessary to insist on registering those because of these particular rape victims and other victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50274	And the last replica, dear colleague Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50275	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bully, in your opening statement, you have troubled Minister Bear's statement, because you said that in one of these laws everything is covered. He didn't say that. I, as I recall in the opening statement, said that those rights which were distributed by a number of ministries, by the Ministry of Education and Social Policy, the defenders, so institutions such as HZMO and some others, were actually trying to bring it together in this law. And when we were together in this government, you know that the debate under this law, that is, the preparation of this law began a year, almost a year ago. It included a large number of working groups, interested public and, if you have seen, there were some 510, 512 remarks you spoke of, and the minister is aware that it is not actually possible to unite everything. It's not possible for a series of reasons, remember then that we were under surveillance of an excessive deficit. There was then talk of a unique compensation center, if you remember, so some things couldn't stand out. I know that the minister and the whole team have been spending a lot of time on the fact that this is exactly the kind of stuff that comes together especially in supply if you remember what was the initial capsule and for the very protest in front of the Ministry of Defence that passed through the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth at the time. Therefore, it is difficult to make one complementarity in the whole of which you speak picturesquely, it would look like this if the Croatian Defence Department had all the charts, medical records of all the defenders, which is not possible. There will always be some things that will not be possible covered by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50276	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50277	Thank you very much. I've made observations and possibilities for improvement. The intention of this law is evident to unite all rights of Croatian defenders and that we must all participate in this as much as possible, and here as a member of the board I supported this law to go to first reading. I see no reason not to speak and not to clarify and seek the possibilities and improvements of the unification of the Law on Croatian Defence because the fact is that defenders who have achieved unemployment benefits are simply brought into a much more difficult position than when they were under the Ministry of Croatian Defence and that is a fact and that is a positive one. So we're talking about 82,000 people who are unemployed. I repeat again, all rights and I cited positive examples and I did not list them all of these laws, but let's say those anomalies that can be corrected, first reading, if it's possible to correct in this first reading or in the second that until the second reading to correct, if possible. This is our club's proposal and we will go out in further debates with individual suggestions to correct this law if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50278	We move on to the second debate, it's the Living Wall and SNAGA Club and the esteemed Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50279	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today is the Law on Croatian Defence, a new law and, at the very beginning, it is important to say that it is a complex problem that exists almost in all countries of the world and throughout history. In view of this, in this part of the presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives, I would like to say something in general about this law, and then, through individual discussions, we will also say more about the members of the law themselves. Above all, the most important thing to say is that war veterans deserve respect and help, and above all, families of the dead and missing and wartime disabled. They need social recognition. They need to be given material rights. That's the way it's always been and that's the way it's supposed to be, there's no doubt about it. However, the issue of war veterans is often disputed not only with us, but also with us. The first question is the amount of material aid given to veterans because it is always problematic whether the budget will remain sustainable after these rights are granted means the issue of sustainability of the budget. The second question is problematic, it is possible to give them privileges that violate social equality, and the big problem is that one part of the defender is always dissatisfied with whatever rights you give them, meaning whatever you give them, they will always protest, rebel and seek more. The problem stems from the existence of governments, it is known which, trying to instrumentalise defenders for their political goals, and what was best seen through the work of individual defence associations. On the other hand, some governments fear the defenders because they are afraid of social unrest and then sometimes give them more rights than is necessary. That's why it happens sometimes that a part of the public is turning against war veterans, and that's a very bad consequence. What rights do Croatian defenders have today? Some say small, and if we look retrospectively over the past periods because there were still countries before the independent Croatia that gave rights to war veterans, then those rights are already very good. Let's just say there weren't any war veterans' ministries before, that's not what happened. This is the first time in history that Croatia has one such ministry. When you read the roof laws on war veterans, and I've given myself a hard time so I read them at the NN were published, let's just say that many categories of war veterans that exist today didn't exist were never recognized. Let's say the prisoners of war, whoever surrendered had no right in the Austro-Hungarian army, only if he was wounded during the capture, if he was captured healthy, there was no law. It's not like that today. In the time of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, defence rights were recognised only by those who died or had consequences six weeks after the end of the war, six weeks that was it. Someone could have died 50 days after the end of the war from a severe wound he was not granted any right. Today, rights to defenders are recognised for all those who died on 31.12.In '97, and if he committed suicide, he was admitted with today. So if someone committed suicide today, he is admitted to being a dead Croatian defender, he has that right. So that's where we see a certain progress again. Also after World War II when these famous partisans were and let's not forget that today we give them privileged pensions, war pensions and other rights. Parents couldn't get any help if they had another son. Widows couldn't get any help if they got remarried. Those were laws, very strict. Today they're talking about how they have all the rights, they're not. These rights today are better rights than they used to be. And now the question is, so the situation has changed for the better but still the question of whether it may have gone too far. Who in Croatia today has the status of defenders? 506,000 people plus HVO. How is that possible? So we weren't able to defend I don't know Petrinja and we had 506,000 soldiers allegedly, defense attorneys. Well, with 506,000 troops, Croatia would have defeated any neighbouring country within weeks if it were such a force. Germany's 6th Army with 300 thousand men broke through hundreds of miles of eastern battlefield and won Stalingrad and we with 506,000 defenders were unable to defend a few kilometers of battlefields. And why is that? Here, let's say the Croatian defender was the one who was in the military until 30 June 1996. So June 30, '96. Now let's open up the wikipedia, the encyclopedia and watch since the Homeland War. Homeland war lasts until '95. It says clearly in the encyclopedia that all the fights ended in November '95. years even when fighting in Bosnia is included and we have a right to 30. 06. '96. A year. What war was waged in June '96. years and where? So that's not what it was. The war lasted until '95. Not until '96. And that's where you should make it clear. You are interested in what rights do Serbian defenders who fought in Croatia and who live in Serbia today? They have rights until April of '92. The year, until April of '92. We'll be back in '96. It's also a problem that on the one hand we have defenders of disabled people who have all the rights, huge receipts of 20, 30 thousand kuna, some of whom are rich on that, on the other hand we have defenders who have no rights, can't even get a job. They've got 200 people with disabilities, 300 kunas. It's also something that, as it's called, creates dissension in public. The public suspects and it is known that certain disabled persons have been made under pressure either politically, either under open threats that there are false defenders and people who, and false disabled, are people who are in better physical condition than a healthy man, or their peers, but there is no revision in this matter. That would be a good step for the public to welcome once and for all to ask a little question. However, we see that defenders can only be added to the list but to subtract no, the process should be two-way. Of course, someone here mentioned social inequality, so I'm not saying they have to be civilian and military disabled in the same rank, but the civilian disability has 1250kn of disability, no help in employment, and he's been sentenced for life to be a second-class citizen. We hear that the pensions of people born in 1962 and later will be reduced by 27%. We hear that the debt to hospitals has grown to 3 billion kuna, we hear that the government owes government officials 8 billion kuna, that the debts of the state are terrible. We know that the pension system is unsustainable, that there are 45% of pension funds missing each month, but we're increasing pensions now, we're re-priority pensions and we're still giving them. ... We'll give the veterans in BiH what we don't have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is this story about the fighting sector, here we see that in this Law on Croatian defenders now trying to divide those who were in the combat and non-combat sectors which is commendable but you look, please, you have people who were the entire Homeland War I don't know in Rijeka or Pula and they have a recognition of the fighting sector, acknowledge the fighting sector, in Pula. He never left Pula or I don't know Koprivnica. He was not known in the crisis headquarters of Podravka,... in some ministry, anti-aircraft protection I don't know in Poreč, where there's never been an attack and it's the battle sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that the battle sector, I don't know? I'll tell you the truth, I was at war in '92. For years, we had positions at the entrance of the town of Gospić, a key point of entry I don't know of Serbian tanks, you know how many of us were in position, four miles away? 35. One platoon held four kilometers. We could have passed not Serbian tanks, but a herd of elephants could have gone as far as our hollows and defensive lines were. And it's already made me angry and now it's making me angry again when I hear we have 506,000 defenders and a fighting sector on a dangerous front in Senj. This should be clearly separated because of the dignity of the fighting sector itself, but also because money should be directed more towards those who need it. We know that some members of the crisis control boards in companies like Podravka bought cars based on defense rights. Was that what they needed to be allowed by the state? We know, for example. that Vukovar defended during the battle of '91. In 1800 people, it was a maximum number, today 7,000 defenders. Did Vukovar defend the 7,000 defenders? History says it's not. Official statistics say it is. For that reason, what we want to say as a club is that one should draw a line. Once we need to draw the line, we want this law to go the way it is, to put a number of amendments on it, to make the most perfect and the best possible and then to say enough once. It's over now. And not that we're going to have a situation, we're going to have to guarantee you, that this law will be passed and that then they'll be dissatisfied again, and here's the law that hasn't even been passed yet, everyone allegedly commended it, and now they have to be defenders of the constitutional category, now they have to go to the Constitution. The constitution is, yes, a piece of paper that can be changed if necessary as anyone remembers. Once again, part of defense organizations, not satisfied with any material rights, they want political power. Here they want to ban the European Night of Theatre on November 18 as if it were some village party that offends that date. We have defenders who threaten ministers, threaten the government, threaten the state, so how far does that go? Is that exactly how the whole thing needs to be politicized and allowed? So, I repeat once again, the rights of the defender, yes, the special rights of the dead, the missing, the disabled, let's make order, let's make a law that will be sustainable in relation to the budget and let's go after that conclusion. I think the Croatian public expects this story to end once and stop any further politicisation of this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50280	Thank you very much. I'm not going to comment on what you said, but I have to say something, and it's not this law that's the first one to divide into the combat and non-combat sectors, it came up in the list of defenders, so it's not that, here's clear as a single correction may not be a misunderstanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Please, if you'd like to replicate me to do so from your seat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50282	Okay. Let's start with the replicas, obviously there's a lot of them who want to replicate. The first is Honorable Representative Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50283	I thought there was some hope for these young heads here and today I'm totally out of it, I'm having all these illusions. First of all, if there's a Mr. Doctor of Science, I've studied military history, I've been three armies before, he mentions some of that former state and right in those countries. He didn't mention a single sentence at all and the rights of NOB participants who occupied this country in '45. year, you have their president, Dusan Pekic, who has declared... The year he said we have 300 thousand false Partisan pensions in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happened to that failed state? That failed experiment you didn't mention at all, what are the genes of today? You mention half a million Croatian defenders, so now you've got data from here that almost 50% of these people still work on the minimal in other people. You still have 18% who have no rights and you mention HVO. You don't have the right to talk about it, you don't know. ... Croatia defends itself in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are no brigades below 500... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have no idea what you're talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's scary. That non-information of yours, I don't know who you are? You were in Miss '92. In the year, I was there in '91, and you were there if you might have signed the UNPA zone, and there you ran one sitzkrieg, there wasn't an army on the line, the Croats organized themselves, they started peace weapons, and when you list all the people who fought for war, it was one gene, we were creating an army in walking. The last Croatian soldier in BiH died on 19.10 at 437 at Banja Luka and if it wasn't for those people there, you wouldn't be sitting here today talking nonsense, it's terrifying, first get information. What's your malice here, you're a pure urban racist. Only one piece of information, '97, 61% of the people killed in HVO are from BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50284	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec. Uh-huh, sorry, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50285	Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Glasovic injured Article 7(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament declare it '45. Someone was occupied, as MP Glasovic swore to respect the Constitution and the laws, the Constitution clearly states that Croatia is based among other things on ZAVNOH decisions, so '45. It wasn't an occupation, it was a release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50286	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bunjac, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50287	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Glasnović, I really don't know what you're talking about. You come here every day with the same story, the Red Kummers, the illustrations, the UDBA, the chickens in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50288	Comrade Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50289	You don't even know how to tell a man, you can't keep your mouth shut while someone's talking, you're screaming aggressive, you're taking pictures with guns, you're shooting judges, so who can talk to such a man about anything. Come on, before you start criticizing someone, please take your speeches, you have on YouTube to see what you're talking about and after that I think you'll understand that any debate with you is without an object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50290	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bunjac, you spoke about the population of Croatian defenders and 505,000 of them, but you did not look at the brochure that you received clearly about how many of them were in the existence of the Croatian Army and Croatian police. If you had a look at it, and even in the law in which it all says it, this brochure clearly shows this chart, how many defenders are in which period in the Croatian Army units. Well, it says here that over four years it was only 7948. And up to 6 months was 75417. And then we go from six months to one year, 42078, one year, one and a half years 20036. So at different times, mobilizations and demobilizations took place. So they dictated the subject of divorce and dismissal, since it was '92. the year was already a demobilization. So it's '94. Again or '95. There was a big mobilization. In the meantime, it was set up by the Domobran... That's where the new force came in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, you should know that before you start commenting on some rights, about the number of participants, and about who today has any rights big or small. Most of it, as you're told, does not exercise its rights, but has their right to work because they have returned to their jobs. And that in the chart of this all depicted to you in plain, clear, unequivocal terms. How many pensions, how many employees, by one type, by another, how many pensions by death, by dead, by suicide. It's all written to you. Just take a reasonable look at it and you'll have an answer to all your questions and doubts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50292	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50293	Thank you very much, Mr. Djakic. You have your opinion, you have your statistics, but most of the Croatian public disagree with you. People believe, even Croatian defenders themselves, that they were not 500, 600 thousand. Now we hear there's going to be more of that number, there's going to be more of them. Plus HVO, I repeat, plus now again these privileged pensions that veterans from past wars have. How much further can Croatia finance? That's the question that concerns the public. No one I believe is that in Croatia there are 1% of citizens who are against being disabled, that the dead members of their families get rights. But they know very well, they know from their nearest neighborhood, that there are people who have acquired rights, and they don't deserve them. That there are disabled people, who are in excellent physical condition and have recognised 100% disability. I believe you've heard of cases like this. And that's what you should, in any case, question that number. My personal opinion, that the status of Croatian defender should end with the date of the Dayton Agreement on 14 December1995 and no more rights, number of days, fighting sectors since '96. I don't admit it. Who's in all the states of the world. As the war continues, so long as participation is recognised, and when the war is over from that moment on, since the signing of the truce, they no longer have the rights. Which is why it's allowed, therefore, to '96. For years, he entered the Homeland War, and in Croatia there were no fights. It is a policy that I hope the minister will give me an answer, and you, if not, will consider submitting an amendment to that part of the law on Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50294	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50295	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My esteemed colleague, Bunjac, you spoke on behalf of the club, and I must confess that I expected a higher level of at least from you and the club. Certain things are difficult to say in 2 minutes everything you said, and when you spoke of historical things about the Germans, the Austrians, veterans, certain wars, then you mentioned participants of Serb members in the Homeland War. I guess you meant the aggressors back in the Homeland War. They were no members of the Homeland War, and you said their rights were granted until '92. A year. However, you forget or deliberately forget, and this reminds me of some civil society that had the same rhetoric that you're talking about, in fact, that during the Homeland War, many of the people sitting in this House were occupied by 1*3 territories, 1/3. What the minister said today, and when he talked about those five hundred five thousand people, today it's about 449, he said not all rights are being exercised. Seventy-eight thousand of them, as far as I'm concerned, don't bring down any rights at all. So they are spoken of as participants, not those who exercise those rights. Because you asked for the sustainability of the budget, if it's possible to maintain that budget. When he spoke about the law, he spoke about the measures and spoke precisely about what the measures were and what the financial effects and their projections were in 2018 and 2019 respectively. He even mentioned... form. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the funds themselves, I agree that we should save on everything. On these things no, but in a four-year term, trust me civil society associations, honor exceptions and all who do a good job, which the government, or executive power cannot do, and therefore civil society associations in one term, trust me to spend between a billion and 200 billion and 600 million kuna, often the funds that could be spent much, much better than for some... projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50296	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50297	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of course, they were not participants in any positive sense, they were aggressors, they raised a rebellion against a state that gained international recognition, and on that side, in any case, they have no positive role. The second thing today is that the Serbian government feels that a positive role existed, so they give them war rights, rights similar to those of the defenders, but again I repeat only until April of '92, and in particular there is no until '96. Or I don't know what years to get rights. So I repeat once again, the defenders need to be given all rights. I don't mind having the defense attorneys 100% right, so unfortunately, 78% if it's real defenders, there's no right. Those rights should be given to them. I am not a supporter of those who feel that everything needs to be re-valorized, that everything should be erased, that everything should be forgotten. No, so we advocate that Croatian defenders have absolutely every right, but those who deserve it. I guarantee you that a large number of those supposed defenders on that list have never seen a first line of battlefields in their lives, nor has he ever seen an enemy soldier, nor has he ever seen a dead man, nor has he ever dropped a grenade on his head, he doesn't know what it is, he watched it on TV. And today he is a Croatian defender and perhaps someone else who deserves help earlier has problems, perhaps these civilian disabled people are taking away their rights since there are not enough funds left in the budget for their problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50298	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Steve Culei.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50299	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. A colleague of Bunjac, you are a Croatian defender, your colleague Ivan Pernar from your club Jasenovac is a genocide, Storm is an ethnic cleansing that is one item. You were in Gospić, which I was in, of course, in '91. in which many were in a different period of time. During a different period of time, there were also different needs of battlefields depending on threats, and units that opposed the dangers were created. The 500 thousand defenders you're referring to go through the average, through my unit, the Special Police of Vukovar-Srijemska went through 500 people. One day, one day ten, one 100, one year, some were from the beginning to the end, I happen to be among the teams who were from the beginning to the end who had not had a day of sick leave, who had given 36 layoffs in that time. I mean, if it wasn't for those 500 thousand defenders guarding that line of battlefields and BiH wouldn't be sitting here today discussing this. We might be discussing possible benefits some other group would get. Perhaps some colleagues sitting here wouldn't have anything to do with Croatia if it wasn't for this 500 grand. So what I'm saying is, I support you in one part when you say the combat and non-combat sectors and I thought it was weird how someone could get the fighting sector, and it wasn't in combat threats. But then I remember that some chef over there on Velebit in some backpack brought food and that he also went all that war route and risked his own head the same way. When you say disabled civilian and military, the hand is a hand, the leg is a leg, but someone has lost a leg or arm in the depths of enemy terrain and bled for another two days in corn or 15 days as a Jurcan member of the Hos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50300	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50301	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Culej, we respect your participation in the Homeland War, unlike your colleagues, we voted against removing immunity from you as a Croatian defender, seven times decorated if you only heard well. It is true that there would be no Croatia without these enthusiasts of young people who went to the Homeland War practically with two apples in their pocket and three bullets to stand up to the incredible fighting force that the entire Southeast Europe of coffee was afraid of. But I guarantee you, I believe that you are among these Croatian defenders, that Croatian defenders are not seeking special privileges, there are some who are asking, but I believe that you are not looking for them, just as I am not looking for them, even though I was a Croatian defender and I am decorated by President Tudjman but only wants a better state. In fact, we would all be overjoyed if we had one well-ordered, good Croatian state, and if it were there, I believe that this whole story about Croatian defenders would actually be somewhat secondary. This is what Croatian defenders want, which is what unfortunately has not been achieved in the past and for this reason we have the situation that we have that all segments of society feel neglected and disproved, and so among them also those who created the same Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50302	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir FELAK.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50303	Dear Mr. Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, so my replica, I must admit that you challenged me by saying that there were Serbian defenders in Croatia. You later explained in your response to one replica that you didn't think so. And in general, in these answers to the replicas that your colleagues have given so far, you have explained some of your views, or you have made them a little bit different. If you'd said so right away, I probably wouldn't have replicated it. You have the right to your opinion on the fighting sector and this, and I would agree with that. I'm part of the '91 Homeland War. I was demobilized at the end of the 1st month of '92. the years when, after the conclusion of the example, it was certain that it was quite different to be on the front line when there were examples or this first time when the Croatian Army was formed and, in fact, in the 1990s, Croatia defended the police and, in parallel with the defence, the National Guard Assembly was formed and after that, the Croatian Army. But I can't agree with you at all to relativize the fall of a Petrinja who at the time defended very few people not because there were no 500 thousand, clearly there were none, they passed through the Croatian army during all these 5, 6 years of the Homeland War. So let's not mix the pears and apples out of it. Unfortunately, we lost one third of our territory because we didn't have an organized army, when we organized it, then we freed the Croatian state. And one more thing about only this 18th November and European Night of Theatre. All honours to the theatre, all honours to the European Night of Theatre but November 18th is a special day for Croatia, for all those who truly and truly love Croatia. And I don't see any problem that the European Night of Theatre is celebrated any other day of the year but not quite November 18 when we remember all those victims of Vukovar and Skabrnje and all the other victims who died in the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50304	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50305	Thank you very much. So in this part, we understood each other, it was only an interpretation if I put myself in a awkward position so that the short story Serbs were aggressors to Croatia, that part we solved. And this second part about the fall of Petrinja, it fell because too few people were simply engaged, so many other cities fell. If there were as many defenders as mentioned today, that there were 5 thousand I believe most cities and settlements in the Republic of Croatia would have been defended. As regards the Day of European Theatres itself, apart from the Croatian army that defended the Croatian border, which has preserved Croatia more and enabled it to be state-run than Croatian culture? Study a little history, I don't know Croatian Mothers, Croatian institutions, fighting for Croatian. Culture can in no way offend war victims. However, just culture can provide an additional framework for their respected, can give one synergy, can be made, can be adapted to the program for that day. But go like this so that defense associations determine who will not be known holidays in Croatia, which will be marked or not, it is simply a prenormisation in my opinion. It is the demand for some rights that no association in Croatia should have, or social category. There are some things that need to be left to the public, to leave things to the citizens, because each of us has its own brains, so they'll decide whether to go to a play or not, whether it offends her or not. In my particular case, I think there's no reason for anyone to feel offended by the European Theatre Day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50306	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Josip Djakic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50307	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State and Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. We have before us a proposal for a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families which is like the latest version that is comprehensive. After a detailed analysis carried out at the Ministry of Croatian Defence and in collaboration with roof associations derived from the Homeland War with 100% disabled, all associations were involved in working groups or their legal advisers or their best members who understand the needs, who know the law, who spent days and hours and hours in this law to produce the best version that would be most worthy of opportunities and time. We all know that by analyzing the state that was found through legal norms and forms, it was not satisfactory because it was not appropriate for both time and opportunity and that it had to be attached to the creation of this new law. To begin with, the HDZ Club will support this law in this first reading and we have no objections, though. We want him to really be a strong support and recognition to all those who have given the Homeland of Croatia their best. There, as some call it a privilege that I would not call privilege but privilege is even an offensive thing for us Croatian defenders, and even the club of representatives of HDZ does not call it that, we say the acquired rights of Croatian defenders who deserve it because everyone had the opportunity, everyone had a duty, everyone had the obligation. The question is who wanted it and who didn't want it. The question is who could or couldn't. And those who couldn't be called minors in defense of their country. And those who didn't need women in the Homeland War, they are indicated that they apply equally to both women and minors as well as to all others. So that these doubts should absolutely not be placed as something that is not covered by the law. It was thought that the deadline for obtaining the status of Croatian defenders who, when the register of Croatian defenders was introduced and when 501 006 was introduced, had today grown to 505,000 and something, had certainly not been definitively final since a certain population had neglected to take confirmations at all and not to present or ask them to enroll in their unique parent records, their course or to change and take a new military book of the Republic of Croatia in order to have been entered from when until they were members of the troops, from when to when and when they received certain recognitions or acts or promotions. This is all in the new Croatian military books, as well as in the records of the Defence Office. It was therefore necessary to enable this category of people to re-apply to the requirements in order to obtain in administrative procedures what was disabled in one part. It was then thought that after 18 years, enough time had passed to record all those involved, but unfortunately it was not true and it had to be reopened and decided on who was involved in the Homeland War. The analysis also showed that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who were lucky and who did not die in the Homeland War are doing well and are raising their families on their own, that they have almost no rights other than honorary fire and subsidisation. This is what the Croatian defender has today, but this law significantly changes that attitude and introduces those things called early retirement, as well as the evaluation and score of their participation in the Homeland War, and you heard that only 7,000 and some people were over 4 years in the role of the defence of the Republic of Croatia. It is a minimum number that we mention, that it was mostly those who were six months, a year, I don't think we have to doubt that there was a rise or release from the Croatian military or the Croatian police. There was a reserve everywhere that was used at a given time and demobilized at a given time. That is why there are these oscillations in both numbers and never 505,000 were in office and under one command to be used in all parts of the territory of the Republic of Croatia that were threatened, from the east to Montenegro, never. And it is a delusion that you are constantly expanding and which is presented as a mantra in order to defile Croatian defenders again. Well, isn't it enough to go through the entire time of the words that were not appropriate to the population of Croatian defenders? This law really restores dignity to Croatian defenders as well as their material and existential rights. Through clear definitions presented to all MPs and the entire Croatian public, with great effort that I have emphasized by the Association of Homeland War, in cooperation with the professional services of the ministry, with all the resolutions of the Croatian Defence Ministry, with all the portfolios of the Ministry of Finance, Pension System and Labour, with social care, all participated in the drafting of this law by harmonising their standards. And the mantra that came out that this law would cost 25 billion kuna was also a spin that wanted to blacken Croatian defenders in front of the Croatian public. Even today, when these same mantras are repeated that we are not all in Croatia alike, how some have certain rights and how some are valued by one commission, the other by the other. Yes, this law clearly states that the single body of art will be distributed to Croatian defenders only for the needs of Croatian defenders because I have long since said that experts have clearly said that they cannot apply the same rules to explosive wounds, to all the injuries they have suffered even to the psychological problems that Croatian defenders have at the same time with those civilian victims regardless of what kind. And there are seven species. 7 types of disability exist through Croatian laws and regulations, and therefore I warn you that we are not talking about it but only about what we know clearly, what we clearly perceive and what we want to accomplish. Yes, Croatian defenders are a category of the most deserved as well in the Constitution, along with Croatian citizens who created freedom, sovereignty and prosperity in this country. Peace. We still need to experience prosperity. But there are things that are actually questionable in some people, which is in Article 1 of this law when it is spoken in paragraph C., which is a Croatian defender from the Homeland War and it is written in this article: "Croatian defender from the Homeland War defended and defended the Republic of Croatia within internationally recognised borders against the armed aggression committed by Serbia, Montenegro, JNA and the paramilitary troops from BiH, with the help of a large number of Serb national minorities in the Republic of Serbia organised and led by a large Serb policy." I don't know why some so-called so-called. In my opinion, statesmen and former Chetnik dukes are self-invited, why are they bothered by this very article and that very definition. Well, that's the historical truth the Hague court has confirmed. Condemned, condemned and led by such a policy, and why it is in Croatian laws is a dispute or interference. Who's got a problem with that? Do we really want the truth again, as it is after the 2nd World War to be only on the side of one or to be distorted and to be repeated and faked? We can't let that happen and we can't let that happen. Of course, there is clear, if it is a large number of Serbian, Serb national minority members. So we can say that there was a clear indicator of the 12.5.1991 referendum, which included 379159 people who put themselves on the list and voted for Krajina, i.e. for secession and association or for the Republika Srpska Krajina, which was more called 369991 or 99.80%. At the time of the pleas, it does not mean that they were enemy soldiers, that they were part of a paramilitary unit or other units. Of the 66,000 were reported by the Serbian Krajina army as an aggression against the Republic of Croatia. That's true, we can't get away from her. That's the report they wrote, the so-called so-called. The government of Republika Srpska. In this law, if we were no longer harassing ourselves with what is actually described, I would like this law, which is truly comprehensive and thorough, which significantly and to the greatest extent possible, improves the status of Croatian defenders, but complements both the disabled and the victims of what they had disabled. I would like, in a joint consensus, as was the case with the Committee on War Veterans and in this first reading, of course, with observations if anyone has them, to bring such a bill to the benefit of Croatian defenders, so that there will be no more politicisation and political bickering about what they gave the defenders or who is their mother and who is their stepmother. When all MPs raise their hands, we have no one to worship. So we all decided that it would be so, that it would be in a function, opportunities that today the state has a little bit better and growing in GDP and that we believe that it should be confused for a long-term period so that the defenders have their own security, that they would have their peace and that they could think and use those rights in their lives that are not even a little bit light and that certainly when they are a good part of them or a large part of them who are jobless, and I think that 26000 who are out of work and can no longer get a job, and this law allows them to be compensated for unemployment, that they will be happy and satisfied to be there, along with these little receipts, but safe receipts have lived the rest of their lives. These are the things that we absolutely want to welcome in this law where really caring and caring look thoroughly at all positions, but when we talk about what it is, I would read certain status rights that will draw them out of this law if I have time and I don't really have time. But as they are numbered, however, it is clear that all those who deserve, and especially evaluated, are clearly covered by the time spent in the fighting sector. So, in this respect, the non-combat sector is almost exempt from the rights that these in the fighting sector draw from this law. So once again, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, I ask you to welcome and accept what is good and to accept as the real thing that the Croatian Parliament and its MPs and MPs are rewarding and confirming, that Croatian defenders, the majority who have brought freedom and modernity to the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50308	Thank you very much. And on your exhibit, we have a really long line of replicas. So we'll start from the beginning. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50309	Col. Djakic, the fact that a single law should be passed long ago, but when we talk about defence rights, then all governments were unfair to the defenders. So was the government of Jadranka Kosor, and you were also in the Parliament at the time, reduced 10% of the pensions to Croatian defenders of 3500 kuna, as well as the Government of Zoran Milanovic. Also, what is best for Croatian defenders and this law has its shortcomings and through discussion should correct these shortcomings. We will give the Minister in writing, if he believes that this Parliament should be accepted and, of course, the defenders should not be politicised. But they are politicized when they join the EU. You were also in the Parliament at the time. So we had to shut down all Croatian generals, put them all in the HAG. We won't mention the HVO, which are still in the HAG that were forgotten until recently. Absolutely no one was helping them. Well, it was one general on the Hague tribunal's emissary, while it was tigering with the entry into the EU, as flowers will flourish, and we will have a future for our children. It didn't react then. So the ugliest words towards Croatian defenders are spoken from Vladimir Seks' mouth, locate, arrest, transfer, process. So you know what these reactions are to people? Then what caused it? Well, they were after Ante Gotovina as the last criminal. So who wasn't persecuted by the general? A marker? That's the problem. The problem is the dignity and truth of the Homeland War. And I am sending a question, Mr. Honorable and President of the Board, to ask the prime minister to show about a statement by Milorad Popovec of your coalition partner about a statement that General Bobetko is equal to Milosevic, Dokmanovic, Martic, everything with whom he does not, is it shameful at least humiliating to the heroes of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50310	I thank Mr. Bull for the replica. The answer of my colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bulj, that there was a 10% reduction and I made it clear that we were reluctant to accept it then, but if it were the state budget and the stability of the state that Croatian defenders were always willing to give up their lives for freedom and not just money. It was in my phonogram you can see when I spoke here in the Croatian Parliament. Croatian generals, yes, were persecuted but not by the Croatian government as you say, were persecuted by the Hague court, proved their innocence, proved their dignity to defend their country honestly, fairly, and did not take any wrong steps and proved to the whole world that confirmed the verdicts in which the aggressor was clearly cited, and who suffered this war and who defended the homeland. They weren't after politicians. The Croatian defenders are the fact that they have been responsible for each of their actions that they have possibly committed or put themselves on the line while the aggressor soldiers have been subjected to justice which was not biasedly believed but are undermined under abject and forgiveness and it bothers me to forget to say it. As for the ugly names for General Bobetko who is a hero and the Second World War and Homeland War, we clearly talk about it, and we cannot allow anyone to insult him and compare with the aggressor leaders who trampled on Croatian soil, who slaughtered and burned all over Croatia's homeland, defied property and cultural values, this cannot be compared.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50312	I thank my colleague Djakic for his reply. Next, a respected counterpart, Vlaho Orepic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50313	Your Honor, Vice President. Mr. Djakic, you mentioned the return of dignity to the defenders, I respect and support the effort to frame the rights of defenders because it is extremely important because defenders are a special decoration of the Republic of Croatia. But, not for one moment, I'm going to give it up now, and I've come forward for an individual debate, but none of the currently in this presentation nor in the law are foreseen a safeguard mechanism. Here I propose publicly... the return of dignity that from the moment someone on the basis of that moment in the Homeland War has acquired the right of counsel or does not know which other right stemming from the law, that from that moment on, if in any way it has damaged the Republic of Croatia in particular financially to take away the rights of defender and any rights resulting from it. We must have such a protective mechanism here, we must avoid any financial abuse, especially to abuse the status of defenders, which is primarily the right to honor, not the right to rights. In that context, please, in this law we must install so that otherwise he has no good intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50314	I thank Mr. Orepic for the replica. The answer of my colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of Orepić's has been defined so far, and from now on, it's within the law. So all those who abuse legal rights and defence status in the acquisition of material rights are deprived of them and everything they have received must be returned to the state of Croatia, so it stands. And even those children who were killed who were using the right to break legal terms and continued to apply the law, and stopped studying must return what they received from the state of Croatia. I know hundreds of examples that have done so, that for a year they have still received compensation from the ministry as children of the mortally injured Croatian defenders, and they have interrupted the university and have not brought confirmation in time, and that is an example which, as well as defenders who, if using the status of defenders, have exercised their right to sit on complete property, all to be charged. And don't be convinced that there is no such thing in that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50316	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Djakić, I've known myself for a long time in the 7th session, we are together at the Committee for Croatian Defence, and I heard from you that you are now calling for unity and consensus, that is nicely said. But I would ask you why you are now calling for unity and consensus, and you did not call for consensus and unity when the minister was Fred Matic. And I know you as the man who constantly asked for Minister Matic's shift. What is secular today, without Minister Matic trying to help all Croatian defenders like us all expensive Croatian representatives, why is he spectacular? You're saying that this law was attended by Croatian defenders, in which law has so far not been attended by Croatian defenders? Was Fred Matic not a Croatian defender or all those who participated in writing those previous laws were not Croatian defenders? What I have a clear observation of this law is when we will finally know, and that is what Croatian citizens want to know, when we will finally know what the number of Croatian defenders is. I am also a Croatian defender and I believe that this Croatian state should take care of every Croatian defender who was indeed a true defender. But here we are, 25 years after the Homeland War, still counting Croatian defenders. Now we include people's or yes, people's protection in all that together. Which methodology will determine who was 25 years ago with weapons in folk protection. I'm not saying that there aren't really those among them who should get their status that way. But people my 25 years after the Croatian Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50318	I thank Mr. Prelec for the replica. And my colleague Djakic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Prelec, I didn't mean to repeat today everything I said in my previous years. I thought I'd really change my rhetoric, but you're asking me to repeat why and why. First of all, the attitude towards Croatian defenders and victims' associations that you do not know, and then they were disabling that there were a thousand and a few defense associations in front of the Ministry of Defence and all 28 roof associations that make up the community of these associations. Your colleague didn't understand, and he wouldn't accept it just to disperse certain people and attract them to himself. 28 roof associations absolutely disrespected. He was preparing a law against Croatian defenders and we tried to explain it to you on the board, you did not accept. As far as national protection is concerned, your colleague Ronko has been repeating on every committee, seeking and seeking, writing and repeating repeatedly that he is seeking rights and for the protection of the people, and today he is satisfied with this law. You've strayed somewhere. You have forgotten the great insults that were expressed by both the minister and the president of the then government and all those officials who had violently attacked Croatian defenders by calling them even terrorists, black shirts and all the other inappropriate words, I just said today, not by appropriate words. If you wish, I will repeat to you today everything you have sent as an insult to the account and to the back of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50320	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply. Next came the line from a respected colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50321	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, in your presentation, you mentioned the special establishment unit of the Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which will teach Croatian defenders. On this occasion I want to highlight the special satisfaction that finally here is the agreement between I will tell the Croatian defenders and the Office of Arts. In fact, Croatian defenders are the only persons with disabilities who have had a document so far, i.e. proof that they are persons with disabilities. And it should be said because many do not know that this regulation, on the basis of which all other persons with disabilities will be trained Croatian defenders, but on a special list as you mentioned for the purposes of exercising their rights, and also from this law which I hope will be very soon passed but the regulation will, therefore, be brought into line with this law when it is passed and here I am particularly stressing that Croatian defenders are also covered by the regulation in one satisfactory way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50322	I thank my colleague Lukacic for the replica. Reply from fellow Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleagues Lukačić, yes, we led the debate, argued and documented, one expert group that was formulated to conduct the trial of Croatian defenders made it clear that she had given her expertise and evaluations, including then Deputy Minister Vesna Nađ, who clearly said that it was inapplicable later she neglected it and went by force together with the minister to make a single body of art equal for everyone. So whoever and the one who turned drunk with the tractor and had the tractor secure had a crushed arm as much as the defender who was left on the front line of the explosion and a mine with no hands and a half of the body, are treated equally. Imagine. And it's inconceivable, actually. And that's not the difference. It's just a status question. Today, there are 20 thousand organizations that may have some mental disorders, but only 500 are those who have had the continuity of treatment in psychiatric institutions and which are the real consequences of PTSD from the conduct of the service in the Homeland War and are necessarily taken care of. And that is why a special body that can adequately assess and be supervised by the ministry and in the action of all together can only be made better for those who are unhappy who have indeed been killed and who have suffered from the defense of the Homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50324	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Djakic, I fully agree with you on this law, which is the purpose of this law to return also to defenders from the Homeland War because we have witnessed constant attacks on defenders and on their rights in recent years. I remind you this is not the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, but the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Already 505,000 have been said and some registered Croatian defenders are currently but the total number of those who exercise permanent rights under the current law is 67 370. It makes it very clear how many people are exercising rights and also at this point we have 62 949 of those who are no longer with us. A small part of them died on the battlefield, and a much larger part died during this period from the end of the Homeland War to today. And I can't agree that they died, they all died the same, but if we look at the age structure of that population that died in this period, then we see that the death of the defenders is because of the suicides which are due to the disease and in the same age structure much greater than in the civilian population. And in any case, special attention should be paid but not just to speak of their rights but to be grateful for what they have given in defense of our country. And I suggest one thing, as we established the register and gave it to the public for an insight of the Homeland War defender, which I don't see what the purpose was, might be interesting to give a list of those who were militaryly capable of the Homeland War and weren't involved in defending the homeland, why they didn't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50326	I thank Mr. Felak. I'm afraid that list would be too long. Mr. Djakic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50327	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Felak, you have well defined everything that this law has done, and especially the return of dignity to defenders from the Homeland War and families of the dead. It's clear that everything we've done in this past period, we've focused on making the better legal framework and the stronger the law, which is why we need that, what I asked from this pay phone in front of the club, in order for everyone to be reasonable to it. We won't ask the question of who is more, how many ministers, how many secretary of state, the secretary of state, the legal service, how many associations, how many who are, let's all accept what's in line with everyone. Let us accept that with all of us is somewhat satisfying and that everyone is reasonable enough not to be able to do more but not less. We're going to make a scene here today, in this first reading, and in the second, we're going to see the corrections along with the amendments, let's forget about the wars we've fought in this assembly, about all the indisputables that have been happening over time and Pandzic and fellow defender Matic. There was everything and everything but I'd like to put it on the other side today and come in one new step to make what's important to those who are most valuable, unique to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50328	I thank my colleague Djakic for his reply. Next to the replica, a respected counterpart, Ante Babic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50329	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Djakić, you were very well sublimed in the opening statement, it was both brief and clear, and I can't believe that after 26 years of the Homeland War, we are talking at all about the foundations that are related to the definition of the Homeland War concept even though it is also related to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in paragraph 13 which speaks clearly and we have all sworn before this Chamber that we will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and it is good that you were actually talking about the declaration of the Homeland War that was adopted in the 10th month of 2000 and that was actually used in the ruling in The Hague Court where it was actually defined who was the aggressor of the Republic of Croatia that I did not really repeat what you said. But it should also be said at the beginning when the minister spoke, in the presentation of this law, we got all this guide through this law, but we also got this study, in fact a study that was for the first time reasonably related to the defence population in which there are certain data for all those MPs who wanted to read it, it is said that it is analysed according to the data where 419 922 is the Croatian defender. But what's worrying, and that's what you said, is that circumstances change, and so are the circumstances related to defenders, and hence the adoption of this new Law on Defense, we must also say that what was ten times changed is this Law on Defence, which is the following. If the suicide had been committed by 3 050 Croatian defenders, that it is acutely ill 12 700, the minister said that 54 thousand Croatian defenders have died so far and only in 2016 4 037 defenders, which is when divided by the number of days per year, de facto 12 Croatian defenders die daily which is also to read from this study that I commend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50330	I would like to thank my colleague Babic for his replica. The answer of my colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50331	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Babić, yes, the mortality of Croatian defenders is a terrible phenomenon. The average of years is 51 or two, that's what's worrying and which is why in this law there are those pompous ones who talk about it before retirement time for them have done their internship more and sooner will go, which were smaller, less will go. The Homeland War declaration makes it clear who the aggressor is, who the aggressors are, who carried out the aggression, Serbia, Montenegro, JNA with an armed rebellion of part of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia. That's what the Homeland War Declaration says. It was put in the first article of the law in paragraph c. And I don't think it should be a problem or a problem to anyone. We know how many Bosniaks were in the Homeland War, we know how many Serbs were in the Homeland War, and with me in Blest, Nebojsa Buha from... So there was no doubt about those who recognized Croatia's homeland, they knew whose side they were on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They knew who to line up with. And they knew how to fight. So today, I have no doubts about this law at all, nor do I want to politicize it to make any points. This is an act taken by associations along with the ministry. An act that is accessible to everyone and satisfies everything in some way. No one gives him the opportunity to use abnormal rights, but only the existential ones that are needed in these times.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50332	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply. Next to the replica, a respected counterpart, Franjo Lucic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Djakic, you mentioned in your debate the words that were mentioned here many times and which are not suitable, privileged, and in 99% of the cases, were thought of by defenders. These people who said the words here are sums of the funeral words and those people who talked about it really don't respect the man who defended the Republic of Croatia, especially those who put their names in the foundations of the Republic of Croatia. This law we're about to pass is the law we've been waiting for for for a long time. But I am also sure that in this very law, we will recognize all the shortcomings that have not been incorporated into laws for Croatian defenders, and I am sure that this new law will bring prosperity, prosperity, improvement, for those people who have earned them and who have defended their country. Because it's easy today, to say and to be smart and to be smart, but at some point, when there was a question of defense and defense against the aggressor, it wasn't elected. And that's why these people who have done so are those defenders and those who sit in this assembly today and here today and as guests, they know best what the defense is and what the will and courage should show at some point. Not today to use such funeral words. In this new law, I am particularly pleased that we will be able to identify people and those who are recognised in this law, which is a national protection that will also receive what they deserve and the comprehensive law that you have contributed to a single improvement and satisfaction, certainly those people who defended the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50334	I thank Mr. Francis Lucic for his replica. The answer of my colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Lucic, yes, it was an honor to serve the country. All the citizens of the Republic of Croatia had the privilege, when Dr. Franjo Tudjman called on them to join the ranks of the Croatian Army and the Croatian police, that the country was at risk. This young system that grew up and the laws and constitutions that were passed were really threatened. At that time, they had every privilege of stepping in and defending themselves. Unfortunately, it didn't happen exactly like that. This would also be known for his colleagues to have all those who could and were militaryly capable, he would probably have filled those 4km if they had all joined the ranks of the Croatian Army and the police. It is true that individuals and as a people's protection were also guarding and defending objects of interest for the Republic of Croatia and that they were under arms, as many weapons as there were. I believe that this number that I've often wondered about is real and true, but when I saw everything... when I took all aspects into account entering... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All those events that were in the formation of new units, I understand that this number is correct and he's fine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's a combat and non-combat sector, we'll figure it out, and there'll be justice for all those wearing uniforms on the front line. I believe in this law that we are changing from tailored to what has been done, perhaps as an injustice in the past tense, through various governments because I'm not only talking about one thing. The '94 law. which was about the defense attorney's welfare, then '97. And so in turn, each one was complemented and was good until 2000 when the system collapsed, the arrival of Pandzic all went wrong, the defenders were disproved, the officers were sent home, protests, riots and all that happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50336	I thank my colleague Djakic for his reply. Next reported to the replica, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50337	Your Honor, Vice President. A colleague of Djakic, you said in your response to his colleague Bulju that Croatian politicians and political elites did not persecute Croatian defenders. It's just a lie and a lie. Here, my colleague Bulj had a case in Sinj when Ivo Sanader was coming, when he had to remove the plate set up by General Gotovina for the Alkarian Courts, so that he would set up Ivo Sanader, because he was bothered by the one set up by General Gotovina. That's when my colleague Bulj called him, said he was a traitor, to whom the end would come and the end came. And that's when my colleague Bulj was kicked out of the Knight's Alkar society. So you're telling the truth, and it's not right for you to do it here in this whiskey house. It was just the party, which you were part of and then you were a parliamentary representative, the vice president of the board, who persecuted Croatian defenders and generals. Only you're forgiven for everything. If during fellow Matics this panel had been removed in Jasenovac, we would probably have demonstrations on the streets, we would have major problems, but you are forgiven. And what is the worst diameter and circles close to the bridge say, We will set the defenders at rest by the Law, and then they will not, and it is written in the newspaper, there will be no disorder. Can defense attorneys' dignity be bought with some rights and money? I don't think so. The defenders have dignity, and it is because of the dignity of these defenders that it is not good for fellow Lucic to talk here about defenders because he used defense loans to hire defenders he used to buy apartments. And even then the vice president of the government suspended those loans, the payment to be paid back by someone, probably someone stronger in ten days, and it's not right to talk about it because it's you who violates the dignity of Croatian defenders because you used credits that you had no right to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50338	I thank Mr. Grumoja for the replica. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50339	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoy, you are using the lies and those who have told you this, and I am in front of the relevant institutions of this country that have all the controls carried out,... Article 238 insults the legislator for unfounded declarations. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the relevant institutions of this state say that this is not true, and you, Mr. Ronko, claim as you claimed and as the paid journalist Hedl also accused me, but only for one reason, because I am a successful man in life, because I am a successful politician, because my HDZ parties have defeated at the level of Požega-Slavon County all of you because I do not answer to you. But it will not succeed in its intention because Franjo Lucic has worked properly so far and will work. And that's why all this stuff you were saying was false, and my company had a total income of 120 million, and not five million kunas that we used to borrow and fully respect what the law intended. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50340	I thank Mr. Francis Lucic. Mr. Grmoya, please. Mr. Grumoja and Mr. Lucic will first respond to your violation of the Rules of Procedure. I do not think the Rules of Procedure have been injured because unfortunately all MPs have been using this debate for one inappropriate way using words that are not suitable for this high house. So if you are not satisfied with my answer, you can announce the clarifications of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. We move to reply to the replica, dear colleague Mr. Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50341	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll answer the line even though I have no one. The easiest thing to do is to double tail and escape, probably so in the Homeland War if he had a year for the Homeland War. Yes, once again, it is not the policy that issued the warrants, but it is the Hague tribunal that forced its orders to act on their aspirations, and in the end it happened that regardless of the captivity, to extradition, all these honorable people proved their innocence and justified the Homeland War, justified everything before the Hague tribunal. They didn't organize a firm called Grizzly, and that's how they started pulling money, probably. We did not bite anyone, nor were we with anyone in any contractual obligation, when we would be offended. And we shall hear more of the lies and the excuses of the lie. There are contracts that are visible and what grizzly was, so a colleague of Grmoya must know as well as his colleagues that they were in good... democracy, law and parliamentaryity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50342	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply to the replica. We have another violation of our Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Vlaho Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50343	Mr. Djakic, Injury of Rules of Procedure 238th insult of a parliamentary representative. I can't believe you said that a man would have been a senior participant of Homeland Work so he wouldn't have participated in the Homeland War, so how could you not be ashamed, so how could God not be ashamed of you? God forbid.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50344	I thank Mr. Vlaha Orepic. I don't see any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. I would really ask you distinguished colleagues and colleagues because today we are discussing the fundamental Law on Croatian defenders about those who created the Croatian state to stay away from the ugly and inappropriate words for this high home and to stop at least on this topic fighting over some of the things from the past that were like this or like this. Croatian defenders in '91. They went to war for no political option but for the Croatian people and for the Croatian state. And I would really ask you to today if never elsewhere and never next time that we have one consent and that in a dignified way we keep one correctness and one level of humanity appropriate when we discuss those people and those victims who created the Croatian state. And thank you for that, I really do appeal to that. The next call came from a respected colleague, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, you explained why the criticisms of Article 1 of this Law were entirely unfounded, especially on the 3rd paragraph on aggression against the Republic of Croatia. I would mention here and highlight one other dimension when we talk about the rights of Croatian defenders, I would talk here about the obligations of all of us MPs because we are all from whatever party, from which constituency we were chosen to swear that we will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is very clear, he says that "Croatian state is founded on the victory of Croatian peoples and Croatian defenders in a fair, legitimate, defensive and liberating Homeland War" It is the Croatian Constitution and it binds us all. This is therefore neither about relations in the ruling majority, nor about relations with other countries, nor relations between Croatian peoples and national minorities, no, this is exclusively about respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what's important and that's the main reason amongst all the other things that you said that I think we have to vote for exactly this definition as the Government suggested in the first article of this Law on Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50346	I thank Mr. Stier for this replica. And my colleague Djakic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Stier, however, I emphasized it so that it would remain in this law, in this article defined just as it is. Because when a neighboring country hears a voice that's hard, that it's terribly hard to accept that someone was an aggressor, that someone committed aggression, that someone put a spoon and a gambling on it, that someone had a speech in Glina and talked about Serbian countries. And it's very difficult for us if this changed, it would be a defeat for us, it would be a defeat of truth, and it would be a changed truth that would not correspond to the reality that happened. The agresors are defined, confirmed before the international tribunal described in the rulings. I don't know what to be afraid of right now. Is it hard to say that, it happened, we were, it won't happen again, we want good neighbourly relations and we have nothing to do with your law, it's so made... And even at the end of my mind today, I didn't feel like having some kind of heated and heated debate, but you see what's going on, some twisting the thesis when you have something good in front of the Croatian Parliament, let's undo it with something that's gone on and it's absolutely out of force... [[The speaker is away from the microphone, he doesn't understand.]] , inappropriate even to this text of the law because it is not spoken of at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we share the view that this is the right thing to do in front of us, in front of the entire Croatian people, and we as representatives of that Croatian people hope to vote unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50348	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. The next is Croatian Defence Minister Mr. Tomo Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Listen carefully to all the debates, and in particular I want to look back at the presentation of my colleagues, Djakic, and about the parameters and application of this law. I would like to make it very clear that as a basis for new measures, we have developed quality analysis of the situation that you have here on your benches. And on which we have actually worked intensively for a year back with all relevant state bodies and services. They were also a basis for us to have proper access to each Croatian defender. There are also status and material issues, but you have here a presentation that speaks of a demographic and social economic picture which in its unique way paints the state of Croatian defenders in Croatian society. I would like to stress that in the analysis of these measures we have taken care of two important segments. One is for him to be enforceable and the other is for him to be available when we talk about budgets. In the opening part of my presentation, I presented financial amounts for every measure. It is precisely these financial amounts that have been harmonised over the past few months with the restoring ministry. What I also want to say is its application in practice. Namely, one of the major difficulties we have had so far is the lack of availability of the activities of the Croatian Defence Ministry, Croatian defenders on the ground. Therefore, one of the measures provided for in the proposal for a new law is to strengthen the regional, county units that will enable all counties in the Republic of Croatia to have access to the service of the Croatian Defence Ministry and to resolve the case in the first degree. Secondly, I would also like to point out, it is mentioned that it is a separate body of art formation that will enable the implementation of the skills of Croatian defenders within the legal deadline. So an extremely important question because unfortunately, right now there is an extremely large number of Croatian defenders waiting for art and we have heard today that more than 40,000 demands are in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. What I particularly want to highlight in this House of Highs is the consistency of all measures in the proposal for our new law with all other regulations that are in force. There were speeches here, and our bill also identifies women and minor Croatian volunteers as a separate category and in a special way are assessed as such. What I want to look at in particular is that mortality and unfortunately often bid. Croatian defenders die between 50 and 52 years of age, and therefore we went with a series of these preventive measures to detect these symptoms in time and start the treatment procedure on time or to provide adequate care. Opening of the deadline and implementation of the law when we talk about both the status of Croatian defender and the status of Croatian military disabled, all of these are measures that we have through the project groups and there have been 11, with a total of over 500 members, elaborated thoroughly in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, which will ultimately implement these procedures to regulate this status of Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50350	I thank the respected Croatian Defence Minister, Mr. Tommy Bear, for this debate. We've got a few replicas, and we'll continue with them after the break I'm setting up by 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50351	Here's a colleague and a colleague, back to work, we have three replicas to present to the esteemed Secretary of Tome Bear. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The first is the respected representative of Vlaha Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50352	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, a clean contribution to making this law as good as possible and as good as possible. You said that the sums, that the money needed to bring this law back to life, were envisaged, etc. I'm gonna have to ask myself a little bit in that direction. Namely Art. 190. who has not been in this context at all in the Defence Act, says the Republic of Croatia, hereby waives any rights that have arisen or could arise from events related to defence, the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, according to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and any proceedings that are ongoing are suspended, and each party bears its own costs. So this law is literally as vague as it is and simply, to put it this way, all the damage is transferred to the Republic of Croatia, which means that it can literally be a war crime, and it can also be about ordinary civil work in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations. For example. Investment contracts, cessium, the Law on Mandatory Relations, know that the debt requirement is due in a number of ways. So it's very important here to pay attention not to be burdened by the Republic of Croatia, needless. I must also draw attention to Article 6 of the E. Watch this, the mortally injured Croatian defenders, status, the mortally injured Croatian defender, under E says and defines it as the one who committed suicide as a result of the psychological illness caused by the participation of the defence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia until the day of entry into force of this law. So the day after, that day, the entry into force of this law, it is not the mortally injured Croatian defender. So literally God forgives me, he can somehow suggest that he kill himself by then, if he'll solve family problems. So that should just change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50353	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50354	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, therefore, what I have heard from your presentation specifically and you have said that every defender will be able to exercise his rights that define this legislative proposal. That's very important. You said then and later that you would take care of the availability of services to Croatian defenders and that you would have a separate construction unit. Because what the defenders on the field say often, they call the ministry, they get a call from a porter, they can't actually get an adequate answer unless they're members... Defense organizations, and then through the Defense Association, I can do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I appeal to you as Minister, to do everything in your power to make sure to every defender, regardless of whether he is a member of the Defense Association or not. And here's my colleague Orepić now stole this piece of replica, so Art. 6. the item determining that the time limit in committing suicide as a result of a mental illness caused by the participation of defences and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia will be limited to the date of entry into force of this law. I don't think that's a good solution at all, because then, not to mention this questionable decision, mentioned by fellow Orepic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50355	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50356	Thank you. Dear Ministers, you mentioned during your presentation, the gap between theory and practice in the implementation of the Law on Croatian Defence, so I would like to ask you a specific question, why are the defenders given worthless shares? We have a case a few days ago, Mr. Misko Balog, from Sisak, which was given 18400 kunas of worthless shares of Dalmatia and the Crikvenica Adriatic that are not traded at all on the stock market. So if you have shares that are not traded on the stock market, you actually have a worthless piece of paper, maybe it's worth a few limes. Can you, as Croatian Defence Minister and member of the government, influence the CERP to stop cheating on Croatian defenders? Stop giving shares that can't be cashed? Can you influence Mr. Blaogo's replacement of his stock? In particular to give him 18400 kn, then he's 65 years old disabled is the Homeland War, he's waited very long and here he is now finally played in one of the most vile ways. As far as I can tell, and I believe you're still hearing it. The CERRP insists on assigning such shares. So there are several hundred thousand, or millions of kunas... The stock that lies in the pre-fashion settlement and will never be worth anything, not a single kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's one particular case, so I'm asking for concrete treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50357	Thank you very much. We move on to the next Club of Representatives on behalf of him will speak that is the Club of Representatives Independent for Croatia on behalf of whom the respected representative Željko Glasnović will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50358	Dear fellow Parliamentarians, Croatian military disabled, those who watch us, defenders, I welcome you all. 22 years after the end of the Homeland War, we finally have some legal framework to move on. There's work to be done of course, there's going to be amendments, we've got our own. In May of the past, we suggested that an independent move to speed up the process, has a document signed by the Defence Minister, General Medved and his team. I would say just this, we can criticise, but there is a saying that "all credit and praise should go to those who are in the arena" by blood and sweat, they are there. Co-operation is good not only between the Ministry of Defence but was a team recently on central Bosnia that it is only a matter of pensioning Croatian defenders of HV, HVO, etc. but also business opportunities to improve. And there's no one coming into the country where 5% of the land is arranged, where we have the bureaucracy of socialist etc. Why are we here today? Here's some persistent on this side and it keeps hiding the truth and... causes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're here today because we came out of one party system, which three pillars were, the JNA that attacked this, JNA, UDBA and the Communist party. And now I've never heard of these people sitting here who attacked Croatia? The Martians. You have that movie "Mars Attacks". Who attacked Croatia? It's a simple answer that truth is being prevented, but you can't long anymore people... You have a virtual world now, Internet etc. That's where it's all blocked out of context, the ones that've been attacking us there since '45. Next they occupied the country, and I'm behind that claim. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I waved with a document showing what the MUP system was like in Makarska has 11 thousand inhabitants, 55 in the SUP personnel of two Croats and one Russian, 50% in Zagreb militias who were? Martians, etc. Why are we where we are and we don't have that fund intellectually he's gone long ago, we have some people here who wrote doctoral papers on the role of Bosnian horse in NOB and that's why Croatia has, for example. Let's say seven patents per million inhabitants, and the EU is an average of 120. It's our intellectual trust, and it's the legacy of something. I'd just mention one thing, this law will need a very, very media strategy to pass because it's been run since the beginning by some black propaganda, you know, statistics. When someone fits their stats, it's all great, when someone... It's hate speech or something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the phraseology from the Bolshevik Revolution that rules today in this House, we watch it every day. And God help us if we have the Doctors of Science some of those titles out there today, then we're really in trouble. Here's today you've heard the exact data that you have 205,000 defenders, that's 47% who are working today in a working relationship. You've got 82 grand that don't have any receipts at all. The first are 47% of the population, the second 18% here is what it is. If this were a legal state, we wouldn't be discussing this law, but we'd be spending the plebiscite there if this were constitutional law. A Switzerland, for example. has plebiscite democracy, one man, one voice. To change the constitution, it takes tens of thousands of votes, a referendum, and it takes much less for legal changes. And there's our Constitution, the castle is a two-thirds constitution for key changes because we inherited this legal ideology, the doctrine from the former SFRY and that's why we can't move on. When I hear here about the hunt that must be given to Croatian defenders, some seal that must be given to Croatian defenders, I'll just read some statistics like this, let's do this for money. Every honour that bothers the Serbian Orthodox Church has been paid more than half a billion kuna since 2002, and today we are paying the facility in Italy and Slovenia. Who cares if we still pay 50,000 pensions in Serbia today, how much money is it, I don't know, does anyone know how much money it is? He can tell later how much money it is. ... No difference. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What kind of Croatian pension is there in Vojvodina, etc., these are facts. I don't do empty ideologies or I don't do empty... phraseology that came from the Bolshevik Revolution, but from facts. Because we forget now that an initiative has been launched in this House to pay pensions to people who have occupied the Croatian state since... the period of '91. Until '96. It was launched by two parties sitting here with us and some spinning in the grave like Radic and others and asking... they launched an initiative at the International Court of Labour in Geneva to pay off people. It would cost us billions and billions of dollars if no one were to talk about what this initiative would bring us but rather care for Croatian defenders. Of course it's not up to me to propose some amendments, they'll depend, especially one point you'd mention, there's a lot of people who would work but it's disabled for them to work, but they're retired. Only the seven thousand defenders who had a pension are working, that's something that's triggered. But we have the youngest population in Europe of pensioners, and we have a country where 1.2 million people work, as much as 1.2 in retirement, it's unsustainable. Second of all, we're going to suggest that the Homeland War Institute be established, because we're not going to repeat who attacked us here all the time. So I know who attacked us. Those who are there in '45. They took off the coke and put on a five-pointer, and in this war they took off their five-pointer and put on a coke, easy. It's a historical truth. And Mr. Pupovac and others, I don't know, what they have to say here, I've never heard that the Serbian Orthodox Church apologized for crimes on the people over these premises. Yes, this is history, since 1912-1941, where I mentioned where the war started and where it ended. And that's the collective amnesia these former frames want to wipe out for us. That we can't retaliate the consequences and the causes. In the end, HVO, how come HVO, what kind of problems do I have with HVO? I'll read some of these basic facts later, like this. The Homeland War was a unique battlefield. Because if it wasn't for those people, the Croats in the BiH, there would be no BiH today, no Federation, no Croatian state... a referendum, stopping tanks there in Shirokom, Tomislavgrad, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic document that covers this, this right of Croatian defenders, the HVOs are never really an HV, an HVO, but a Croatian force. That's what President Tudjman used, and that basic document is called, his address, the nation of '96. the year, which mentions, the unique Croatian forces, under a single command. Let's not forget, it took a year to get there from Kupres to Mrkonjic city and beyond. We can't forget that. And this is led by black propaganda against Croats from the BiH. Just one little piece of information for some of our science doctors. Doctor of Science, Mr. Bauk, you know what, I won't, when you're talking I didn't get up and talk about the love habits of Africa... flies, maybe you'd learn something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing is, look, here's the thing. I don't know anyone. This is from 2009. I see your hand signals, and you're not only historically illiterate, but you're one other thing, you have a metal band that can't be removed, it's hard for you, I understand that. But there are two psychiatrists, I mentioned that before. The other thing is this, look. Here, in 2009, you have 42190 members of the Nob. Which cost the state billions and billions of kuna. In 2009, 2000 and some average kunas are pensions. You have an HVO, 6300 members. The same pension almost bothers people like this, historically illiterate, which bothers them, HVO, that he can sit here today and tell us stories. And bring down those empty phrases without any facts. Because you don't have a fact, sir. Secondly, when you talk about the Homeland War, you're like a doll, some are like dolls here. We have 10,000 victims, and that's 10,000 times 1 people who were trampled in camps, who were killed by jumping on a chest basket in Manjaca, Banja Luka, etc. You have raped women, people who died in agony, and that's not a joke to me. And here you talk about the Homeland War, you don't feel it, because you didn't feel it. You didn't have people dying on your hands. You have no idea, you only have phrased ideology and your ego that's bigger than Mount Everest. In the end, I support this law, independent too. Of course they're gonna rain these amendments here. They'll come. But this is an appeal to the Croatian people here to wake up from that winter dream, to start dealing with facts and to stop black propaganda against Croatian defenders, because there's also money being sold to Tito's villa. We were talking about war damage, 40 how many billion dollars of extraordinary damages. Now get on... Selling Tito's villa, that's a fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not an empty story for 2.5 million. What about INA property in Serbia? What about the return of property confiscated? These are also the consequences of this former system, which we're talking about here today, and the resources there are, should be deployed. I thank the Secretary of Defense for coming here, and I know what kind of pressure he's under, and I hope this goes well, but we're going to include this law, that we're going to scratch it right. And finally again, to appeal, to resist these agitpropers, who protect a party here, a criminal, who is still in power on some issues. And always, yes, that strange word of frustration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50359	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first to represent the Honorable Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50360	Thank you, Vice President. Dear General Glasnovic, I would say that the Croatian defender was derailed 25 years after the war. Why? Because the red tape of the Croatian state never wanted to solve the favourable issue of our defenders. And why would she do that? Just because she was working and returning everything to '45. A year to say it was done during communism, it was antifascism in '91. years won, not Croatian defenders who defended the Croatian state. So you see, please, there were anti-fascists coming out of our barracks shooting at us with a five-pointer. How can they be at the edge of our defenders? Is that possible? Anything is possible in Croatia. So how did you defend anti-fascism when you went shooting at our people in Croatia? Croatia was won in '91. And we have to write it down once and finish in '45. A year. And give the historian to say what antifascism is, what Communism is and what is today, what are our defenders, who are indeed 25 years old, under every level of disrespect. I don't mean this people, but disrespecting our bureaucracy, which doesn't want to, never make order in defense. This is the problem of the Croatian state. We are still certain teams of people and our bureaucracy in Yugoslavia. Croatia remains unacknowledged and simply does not love it and does not want to hear about the defenders. Not to mention our raped women all over Vukovar and around, where the investigation has never been solved. So let's see what we've done in 25 years for these people. Here we have our disabled, unfortunately, I can come watch and listen to us all together, and what do we do for them? Nothing. We're still rebelling when they have some benefits, and we're not going to tell everyone 30, 40,000 Partisan pensions, so I don't know if they've been defending Yugoslavia for 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50361	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Glasnovic. Oh, no? Thank you. Dear Representative Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50362	Dear Vice President, my colleague Glasnovic is laughing at you and mocking your words, chasing you with their lies on your truth. And I'm going to back up your truth about what you're saying. I'll be quick. I'll read it in a hurry. He says about another Dr. Karadzic Radovan, I will talk about the privileges in which they had and gained privileges. "According to the measures and statements and orders of an SSNO security institution from Belgrade, Emperor Uros 63, we must have confidential persons in all institutions, especially in the pharmacy, regardless of knowledge, ability. For the second time in my life, I threw out my name and last name so you wouldn't tell who it is, you'd get one seat at the Medical School in Banja Luka. If you're having trouble with the place, you can transfer a boy to Nis like you did last year with that boy I sent you from Split. The problem is that a friend doesn't have a proper high school. He graduated from a driving traffic school in SR Croatia, so he must take a qualified exam in biology, chemistry and physics. He can't pass it because there's no sign of the cases mentioned. Comrade NN and his father are my brother-in-law's personal friends, General Veljak, and his faces are very confidential to us. He was also assigned an apartment by the provisions of the JNA Residential Fund in Split and said, "Fuck it, don't make me and Veljak come to Banja Luka because of these petty p. It's clear to us that the boy doesn't have a sense of science, but that makes sense for what's most important to us. The boy was on a short course of security checks and training and proved to be very similar. But he'll be less intrusive to work as a doctor. It is important to push it through, enter it, and then easily transfer it to Croatia, Rijeka or Zagreb. Comrade greetings, I'll see you at the VMA in Belgrade on Wednesday. Colonel Dr. Stevan Kadjevic, Military Hospital Internal Department." That's how they trained and advanced and sat here laughing at you, general.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50363	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50364	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, General Glasnović. You spoke of the rights of the Croatian Defence Council, i.e. Members of the Croatian Defence Council in BiH. However, there is one question left in the air whether this law regulates and members of the HoS in BiH, i.e. will this law also regulate their rights, whether the family of the murdered Blaž Kraljević will also consume those rights, is it ever going to know the truth of who killed Blaž Kraljević and the members of the HOS in BiH?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50365	The answer of the respected representative Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50366	Yes, I had a VOC in the brigade. To me, the Croatian soldier is a Croatian soldier. I didn't share anyone or anyone. I didn't know there were Croats from Slavonia, Gospić, etc. when I lived outside. Like all of them were the same to me. It was a small town, I was 8 years old. Whenever the Croat came my grandfather would put on a tie, a hat and meet a Croat there at the railway station in that small town in Canada that has 12,000 inhabitants. That's why there's other problems. You have people who, if they weren't there wouldn't even be Croats in the Latin Valley and other heroes of the Homeland War didn't fix anything. It is a disgrace to the Croatian state. And I'd say the same thing if we had an orderly state that we didn't have, because we got out of that self-government anarchy, the one-party system we'd have military courts, we'd have military police, etc. And we do everything. It's easier to create a country than to preserve it. Also, you need to deal with war profiteers and see who had what. I don't see a lot of Field Marshals talking about problems today in Croatia. May it be upon them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50367	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50368	Dear Vice President, here's my colleague, Glasovic, from your debate, I understand that you are the only Croat in this country. Because you spoke obviously we are none here nor Croats, nor do we care about Croatia except you. Here you have criticized both HDZ and SDP, and even Stjepan Radic, the man who went to the Belgrade Assembly even though he knew he was going to shoot him there. He gave his life for Croatia and Croatia, and you humiliated him here in some way. Although I must admit that although we brought in June 20th, the day of the June 20th victims, even the President of the Parliament didn't keep a minute of silence, so I'm not surprised. But besides that, you threw the trees and stones on the left and on the right. I wonder why you supported today's government if nobody's good here, and neither are they. I can't understand which of your discussions, what are your interests and what are you talking about? You've been gone for 30 years in Croatia, and I don't think you should give a lecture to those who fought communism at that time and lived here and were never party members. I don't think we should criticize everything like that today. Of course we at HSS support such a law on Croatian defenders. I hope that he will one day separate the real defenders from those who have hidden from that name, because I don't know who will eventually succeed in getting so much money if the number of Croatian defenders increases, to pay off all those pensions and all the privileges that the defenders have. The real defenders who have been killed, who have given parts of the body or in some way have suffered from the war really need the help of this country and need the compensation of this country, and I hope that this law will try to distinguish that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50369	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50370	I don't know who you are, I don't have your biography, I didn't work for UDBA and I know who I am. At the same time, I didn't insult that spin again. I didn't insult anyone. I mentioned our Mr. Stephen Radic rested his soul. My grandfather was a member of the first opposition in the old South, the Croatian Republican Peasant Party and also knows Mr Krnić, Radic and Maček. He knew them all like that. And as far as I'm concerned, you're not exactly, you may be a politician, but you're not a historian because you don't know anything about your history. You'd know about the villagers, if that former state you, you'd just made an agreement... Communists who never apologized against the Croatian people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Never. Not only did they not apologize for the crime, but those victims... And today, he eats there with you, you're part of that group, and you should know, that after 2nd World War, '50s if you listen to what I'm saying, look, don't believe me, '50s. For years, the only country under communist rule in Europe, west of the Ural, which has a rural rebellion, was Croatia, where they hung... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Slunj and in Osijek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And your comrades ate the diplomatic sequence was breakfast on Brijuni, 32 sequences, while people survived on milk powdered and poisoned eggs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50371	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50372	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the club, Mr. Glasnović, I want to say two things. You asked how much the Republic of Croatia's pension from abroad, or how much of it goes to Serbia. So HZMO pays 143,000 pensions outside the Republic of Croatia. So it's not just for Serbia, but for all the former countries, in fact, for all the republics of the former common state. What you said well in your presentation, and what was actually troubled in the Republic of Croatia, is the participation of members of the Croatian Council of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, and it releases actually for the Croatian Defence Council, which is related to the interstate agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the BiH. And that was actually your condition for paying back pensions to members of the Croatian Defence Council. You know that decision was respected, and now the amount that the Republic of Croatia owes in 2007-2016 is totaling 187 million kuna. So the total amount is 187 million kuna, and these funds are coming to you from the request of the Republic of Croatia, from the rest of the republics of the common state. So, both Serbia and Macedonia, Montenegro, BiH and Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50373	The answer of the respected representative Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50374	I thank you for that information. We heard 53,000 if I heard the exact number of foreign pensions and I wonder what the pension of Croats in Vojvodina is. I've said that before in Republika Srpska and other places. This law is important, not only to exercise some rights, it is a key element in restoring Croatia's economic recovery. If we do not have a strong Croatian state, we do not have the survival of Croats in the BiH. I think Croatia is in plus, 100m euros every year, trade with Croats in BIH. And we should keep that in mind, because Croatia has no strategic depth without these people. That's it. This is a strategic issue for the Croatian state. Because we have down south we have a land that is 650 meters wide. That's what these exes left us because we talked about them enough. But without a legal framework for investment from outside, which is now blocked here, we need to understand that this entire pension system is unsustainable because 50% of people work in administration, in public services. If we don't create new values, new jobs, we'll have a hard time surviving. And I wonder where the action plan for returning Croats back to BIH, it is for the young gentleman, from where 25000 Croats were driven, 25000, action plan and where the return of Croats outside the homeland is an action plan for their investments, which will be legally secured. That's the key questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50375	Thank you very much. The next SDP representative's club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Predrag Matic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I divided my exposure on behalf of the SDP Club into 3 parts, so I simply have to say this opening part because from it comes all this further which will be talked about by the law. So, after 555 days of protest, which began as a protest, and ended as terror, harassment and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the entire ministry, Godo came, this law I call it Godo, so it was promised. It's been working for a year and a half and I have to start by saying the law isn't bad. Because the law didn't honestly bring anything new. I'll show you later. So, protesters who, therefore, started the protest Milan Bandic and his team, and took over HDZ and their team, because they were simply impatient to wait for regular elections and take over power, should have done so by force. They both fell. That you know, that it is certainly not my smallness, so it was for Milanovic and Josipovic, and in part, they succeeded. The confirmation of this was made by Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who came to the tent several times before the ministry, gave support to protesters, told the community and respect for institutions, and never came to the defence ministry. Interesting. However, I now expect her to support Croatian defenders, in an effort to keep this law constitutional, because look, the protesters are given 2 promises. One thing is that the name of the defence ministry will change, and the other is that a constitutional law on the rights of Croatian defenders will be passed. HDZ logic says we've met 50% of your demands. They have indeed applied the name of the ministry and now it is no longer the Ministry of Defence, but the Ministry of Croatian Defence, as if there were other defenders. But it doesn't matter, okay, we gave another $2.3 million to change the seals that Oreshkovic's government failed to lift, so we had to change them. And change the memos on the documents. What happened? The law is not bad, although in 3 amendments and additions made by the Government of Zoran Milanovic and my smallness as minister, a number of newspapers have been passed, which is very easy and supportive with documents. So it's all written down stories, manipulations we leave it to those who serve the team all the time. It would be good to pass the law and what Mr Djakic says to stop manipulation, but only it is the unique right of HDZ alone. Remember the Split Riva, remember the Beštek affair, remember the tent, who was doing the problems, who was doing the manipulations? Look here, probably now the representatives of the association have gone because they're more bored waiting late this afternoon, remember two years ago what these same people did to that good man, Joseph Leca, when they were screaming, yelling, and they didn't want to talk about anything but constitutional law. They're not talking about it today. They say we have raised a protest over the situation in the country, so today Croatia is shooting at seams on all sides of the INA, Agrokor, bribes and corruption, employment, transmitters, connections, we have the award of competitions to people who have not called, we have even crossed the Western Europe, which is going to suck. So here is often the word dignity used, if you Google your dignity a little means honoring the man that man gives himself. Dignity or who can take it or who can give it, and we keep looking for some dignity, and in law, we avoided the concept of right. The right is mentioned in hundreds of places. So what do the 200 thousand Croats who left Croatia think about it? 0 to that by that. The protest is over, the defenders haven't figured it out yet, they get it right away, and they're less smart a little later, and these some will never realize that one party and five individuals profited from the protests. One became an adviser to the president, the other became a minister, a third secretary of state, the fourth solved legal problems, the law problem, and the fifth with his wife was the king of that tent as we have the queen of the Balkans, so we had the king and queen of the tent. What's not mentioned in this bill and I'll say that before I go to this part, they're gone. The most severe consequences of the war are missing persons. We have that the minister's assistant a few days ago insulted a representative of the Serbian Commission for missing persons on a dog wagon and what did he do with it? No more talking. When are we gonna find any more missing? A politician must be prepared for many things, so even conditionally speaking, and what he has told him is not far from the truth. I can even say, of course, that he told him the truth, but in politics, he can't. A man came to Zagreb to visit him, he insulted him a man rose and went away. Who we're going to find now, and we're looking for a thousand and a half people. What's interesting is now it's re-connecting to HDZ, the missing persons' association, if anyone's looking for their child, their brother, their sister, their mother, their father's keeping quiet like fish, no more, no more protests, what difference does it make? And secondly, the civilian victims of the most severe victims of the Homeland War are always what they say neither the guilty nor the debtors, nor the words of them. There may be some new law, the minister did not say that in his presentation of this law. But I know what's behind the hill. Out of the roughly 10,000 civilian casualties, 9000 are Croats, but a thousand of them you know, um, can I say here yes, a thousand is Serbs. So whoever cuts off and the 9,000 Croats don't exercise any rights just so that thousands of Serbs don't realize it and it's said about Serbs who remain on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the free part of the Republic of Croatia. What is good in this law and what I will welcome is certainly an attempt to encourage the defender to work. The biggest problem with defense attorneys is that, the retired who have too much time to spend on cafes and bookies, so I commend these provisions allowing defenders to work, to sort of kill time, to do something in order. Okay, if there's gonna be competition for some other people, we'll see about that. Easier leaving and early retirement, I don't know how our citizens will probably welcome it. New defenders, HDZ special, so 26 years after the war, somebody remembers, I guess they wake up in the morning and say, well, I was a defense attorney, and then they go and check in. We have a problem with national protection, so a number of people of national protection certainly took part in the defense, but they don't know today 26 years after the war whether there were five or 75 thousand. I have said it many times and I repeat, it should be expected within a year, two days that if he is Prime Minister Plenkovic, and if he is Minister Medved, the million defender, will be given flowers and candy the way it is done in the cultural countries for the millions of passengers at airports. He says a single law has been returned, give the people, and all the time for 25 years we've been saying that not only the Defense Department can take care of the defense attorneys, it must be the whole state. And now we've pompously called it the Single Law on Defence Rights, but you still need the Ministry of Pension and Labour, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the MORH and the MUP. What kind of unique thing is that, then? We're all like summed up in one law, it's just not true. Unemployed benefits, defenders more than anything they like to be scolded and lied to, that's amazing. So you don't have to fill them in just lie well. It used to be called unemployment benefits, so it was called supplies, so it was a guaranteed minimum fee, and whatever you call it, it's always the same. And every government has given to the unemployed as much as it has had for those purposes, and now it's said that 82 thousand people, it's about me thinking one ten times as much as it's ever been, everyone's going to get and for everything there is. When those 82 thousand people are taken care of for unemployment or supply or whatever they call it, bring me that law to eat it here in public in front of everyone. What's wrong, new defenders. So we have '96. In the year, President Tudjman wonders about 360 thousand defenders, so fat after the war ended, he says from where, how. It means '96. To date, another 150,000 people remembered they were defenders, but that's not enough to open up any further. Of course, in order for the specialty to be complete, the recipe must be perfect. The register closes, so I haven't met yet except a few people here who are against the publication of the Defense Register. Croatian citizens pay us pensions, give us Croatian defenders and it is fair to know who and why, when it opens it is over. The biggest winners of this bill are members of the HVO, and in part, I will say that in the end and Mrs Vesna Pusic, I will not explain this in order not to harm the interests of the 6th Croats in The Hague. Living, noisy announcements, unfortunately ministers, over 300 a year, you won't solve housing issues because it's still 12,000 unresolved issues, it's just like that. Super coefficient, watch out now, who was the Protestant, so everything will be clear to you, the pension coefficient of the Guard brigade and the special police 1.8, the rest of the poor 1.5. What were the R brigades weaker, what were they to see? Which one was stronger than the werewolf brigade? Which one was stronger than the Sibenik brigade in the first place? Who was it, who could measure it that way? However, the team measured it. The thanks of the Minister OK, when associations can declare heroes of the Homeland War, the minister can, it could simply have been a regulation but any recognition is only valid from the Office of Presidents, it is known who gives medals and confessions. And now that sugar, the association, you know who was protesting again. So imagine them in the statutes writing NGOs, not party, not profit, and they are of course from the first day of both government and party and profit. From 0.3% to 1%, each of them now has a mayor, a mayor, a mayor, a mayor, from 0.3% to 1%, you'll be giving to associations from the Homeland War. To make it easier for the state to give you 20 million kuna per year for the functioning of associations from the Homeland War, the City of Zagreb from the year 70 must give, Dubrovnik 10, I don't know how other cities will. And in the end, the people say it's potassium, or where it's caught. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Does this mean anything to you, the guys from HVO 26 to 49, 50 to 56, 140 to 147, we are discussing the law today and these provisions will be valid from 1.1.2019. And what does that mean? If HDZ is in power, he will explain to them as it has been for 27 years that something he can't, can't, will be like this. And if they lose power, a new power, you have to apply the law. Therefore, the SDP will be committed to this law, it will support it, of course in the second reading, and we will give some amendments and supplements but we will insist that the law applies from 1.1.2018 to all and to our HVO brothers. Why would they wait another year and a half. Ask for confirmation from the president. And in the end, alone, only about the means. So incredible logic, only HDZ can do it. Last year, at the position of the Department of Defense, you cut 100 million and then give them 174 million. So ask the kid from first grade primary school how much they got. Of course, they're thankful they got 174 million, so they had to take their entire budget and give it back to them, here's a better hero. In 2014, the only government that has reduced the defences of 10%, according to Milanovic's government, which is Minister Matic, who does not like defenders and who is constantly with them in the conflict, prescribed that he returns 10% when GDP is growing and the deficit falls. It's now, this month. We have denied 350 million kuna a year, which means that only 350 million kuna is returned to the pensioner's sea next year alone. It's so accurately calculated here that it's 64 million. Well, only until the new year is 100 million, 3 months the defenders will get those pensions thanks to the not-so-returning national government of the SDP. Every government has abolished, even though the defense attorneys have 10%, none of them have returned, but Fred has returned. So there is money, Plenkovic will feed all the defenders with one fish like Jesus and will therefore be for everyone. The SDP, I said, will support this law in addition to amendments, but we will insist that the law applies immediately, but here since 1.1.2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50377	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused a huge series of replicas. So let's start from the beginning. First, she's the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50378	Your Honor, Vice President. Fred, you've got the medal, the order of the Croatian Cross, which is obtained exclusively for the wound. Where are you wounded, 100% disabled? I understand your impatience towards a certain part of the defender and your act of brigade since you've had experience, you've been commander of the room, in prison, in Serbia. But I will read what your friends, your comrades say, as you like to call them from the city of Vukovar, a hero where you rarely come. In faith and hope that at least someone from the Croatian media and the state institutions of the Republic of Croatia care that they finally objectively and truthfully demystify the self-proclaimed hero of the book Nothing False, we want to believe that this letter will come upon a conscientious and honest editor of journalists who will pay attention and devote themselves to journalistic research as well as to the state institution and with the aim of real protection of the dignity of defenders and the Homeland War. And once and for all, by the name of Predrag Matic-Fred, stop the humiliation, the insult, the real real real real heroes of defender Vukovar. With respect to the Vukovar defenders, Nevenko Mauser, Petar Janjic Tromblon, Tomislav Jakovljević, Vinko Mažar, Mario Mlinarić, Miroslav Josić, Ante Madona, Tomislav Josić, Mirko Brekalo, Trpinska cesta of course, Branko Grdić, Ante Rasdić, Dean Marošević, Stanko Zadar, Rogoljić, Lozančić, etc., and so on, only Marko Babić is alive so that you know how he handled it on Trpinska cesta 2, 3 and with his foot up your ass. So much, Fred, hero.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50379	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50380	Thank you very much. Mr. Culey, you're a phenomenon, like, I'd say a man that you bled his pants, I'll take you in front of all the MPs, and I suggest we go on a field trip where you were during the war, where I was. And after that other one never shows up here again. So during the protest...... Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50381	Wait a minute, please, don't yell from the spot.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50382	So what Mr. Culey's talking about is it's long since all been denied and of those who have so strongly encouraged, it's not signatures, but I don't want to argue. I can teach you a saying that doesn't apply directly to you so that you don't offend, never argue with a fool you'll bring it down to your level and experience so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50383	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50384	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50385	Wait a minute, we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Mr. Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50386	Article 238 of the Injury of Rules of Procedure, you cannot insult and use your right to insult me. In addition to hanging a target on me, Hasanbegovic, the general as the only problem in this country as well as Karamark, you cannot do it and do it, are you doing evil in this way. You're making someone uninvited of something that's wrong. I'm telling the truth and I'm saying what they say about you. I've never been easy. You insult me here, you talk about some warpaths. About your war route are pictures and footage from the Jankovci where I fought against the 1st Proletarian Guard armored brigade from the Kumodrag where my unit prevented the invasion of Vinkovci and the separation of Vinkovci Županje to Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50387	Thank you. I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 238, but you've already warned him. So counseler Stevo Culej repeated what he had just done, insulted, and disrespected the MPs, and did not stick to the subject he had reported. But I would take this opportunity to also ask as a Croatian defender for everyone else who will replicate fellow Fred Matic to respect everything that this man has sacrificed for Croatia by fighting as a defender and as a camper of Serbian camps. If we don't respect each other, then I don't know how anyone else will appreciate everything we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50389	Thank you. Of course, it wasn't even a breach of the rules of procedure. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's fellow Matić, you've said a lot of things, I really believe, and you've offended some people by calling the king and queen, and there's always some crazy palaces in the royal court. So it's hard to actually answer your questions about your debate, when you're surprised what defenders and the rise of the defense population are when the register of 5106 has grown to 505,694 since the beginning of your time. Now explain to me what happened at your time when I asked you a strict question to provide me with a list of those who are new defenders and on what basis they gained their status. To this day I didn't get an answer from you, you said let me take a look at the register. Imagine the perfidious response as if I were in the register to see when who was entered and when his status began and who approved it. I don't know what 4.5 thousand new defenders are to this day, who they are, whether they're in administrative proceedings by the administrative court, by any other procedure, or whether you've put them in the register. That's one thing. The other thing, as far as the law and the changes in your time, is that I even commended one thing, which is that the volunteers of the Homeland War who have that status exercise the right to housing on equal terms as disabled and others. And I said that, I respect that, and it's a good measure, but tell me where the insurance money is and it turns out I was right. A dead letter on paper because it was only 4 to 5 years of trying to make it happen, and three of them got an apartment according to a report that came into this House. And that's true. Therefore, I would ask that we continue to end these impatiences and that, together on this, as you have said to the good bill, we decide all together unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50391	Thank you very much. I've got to fix you up a little bit, too. There are no volunteers on the list, there are only combat and non-combat sectors, unfortunately there are no volunteers, now volunteers come into the law. Here you are, the answer of the distinguished representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50392	Thank you very much. So, my colleague Djakic, I told you and we accept, we are peaceful party colleagues, so we will no longer manipulate the defenders. You count us once, we'll list you from the beginning, but it doesn't matter. What Zdravko Mamić would say, I remember you as a top manipulator all these years. So 4.5 thousand, none of them are related to me, nor do I have anything to do with them, they've been given administrative procedures, that's absolutely clear to everyone. But how's it been since '96? of President Tudjman when he said 360 from where God came from, so you're not surprised at the 140 thousand new defenders, and you're surprised at the 4.5 thousand who have welcomed us, these are administrative procedures that have been going on for years, and yet they'll be led even now. But remember all of you here who are in Assembly 505,694 will see you on year 555 with or without a line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50393	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50394	I never mentioned Mr. Fred Matic... the name never in any context or interest in that. But I'm surprised that he's running out of the country for me, Culey and other heads here, I find that thing strange. Since I know I'm not a criminal, I didn't steal the money, I'm not a war profiter, I don't know where his impatience to me comes from, let him explain it to me because 10.4.'92. I don't know where Mr. Matic was, that day I was wounded, and that day Robert Zadro's son died in Kupres, and there were other Vukovars there from 204, more of them died, Mr. Fred knows these people. I just don't know exactly who to talk to if I've never heard of on this side of the right side who attacked Vukovar. I'd like an answer to that question, who attacked Vukovar? The second question, it was a commission on war graves, this isn't ideology, this is the present. The Americans come here, they ask 2 of their pilots from Vis, they have, if they find the remains, they bring them back, they bury them with all those honors, and we steal the war graves commission and hand it over. It's been lifted by an ex... there in that government in 2002, when they took my passport away, those former personnel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have hundreds of thousands of deaths, no DNA analysis. So what kind of state is that? Is that the past? Tell the Ukrainian there, that... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just the answer to those questions of mine, did ever lay down, that first question, who attacked Vukovar, the second question, did ever lay crowns in the center of Vukovar, where he was killed in April of '45. 200 of Vukovar's most prominent citizens. If it is, I'm glad. Because there was also killed, the bishop, the father of Bishop Mrzljak, and that is the fact that it was committed over the Croatian people, which is being kept silent here all the time. And it's good for me to ask to praise the HVO. You may know the facts now because there was a war there for three and a half years. And if it wasn't for those... Sit down today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50395	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50396	Mr. Glasnović, I am sorry to have used you as a symbol of something, for 200000 Croats, young people who have left the Republic of Croatia in the last 2 years. But you know what? You've announced, not yet, but that you're going to kill judges. It's probably next in line then the press and believe me, I'm afraid I'm here somewhere near because I've been declared a long time ago as an unnatural element. And that 2, 1992, when the Vukovars died at Kupres, unfortunately I was in the camp because I stayed in Vukovar until the last day. Those who came out a week earlier, I don't include Robert Zadar, the deceased, who came out five days after Vukovar fell. But those who came out earlier, they had a chance to go to Kupres. I didn't, I stayed with my citizens until the last day. And as for the victims... 2nd World War, I'm sorry, General, that you don't, as you like to say, have no idea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Professor Hebrang was sitting here in the Parliament, for 20 years he argued about the victims after the 2nd World War, tra-ta-ta tra-ta-ta tra-ta-ta. Who brought and who opened 2 only monuments in the Republic of Croatia, 2, no zero and no 3. It opened the left SDP government, huge monuments at Slunj and here in Zagreb, in Gracani, who opened it? Fred, I'm proud of it even though I have nothing to do with the Ustashas or the Partisans or the Chetniks, and as things stand, even less and less with the Homeland War defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50397	The breach of the rules of procedure was raised by respected MP Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50398	So get me to it, it's clean... Insults common sense, that's somewhere in the article. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're not answering one question, first question, who attacked Vukovar, second question... And that someone compared me to the Ustashas. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50399	Comrade Glasnović, please do not abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's an institution that has its purpose and if we start to abuse it, I see that there's such a tendency lately, we're going to do really, really something that, I think none of us want. Therefore, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is clearly defined, it is not a replica, it is not an answer. Someone whose opinion we do not agree with or disagree with, but it is very clear and precise. Let's not abuse her. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50400	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Matic, I followed your presentation carefully, and you went well, and then after a few sentences, you said, as far as I can remember, the law is not bad, because it did not bring anything new, even though in your presentation you were talking about some newspaper in this law. You know he brought a lot of stuff himself. Maybe he could've done more. I expected, given that you spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, perhaps a few proposals and suggestions, which are not covered by this law, that they will be held until the second reading, as a proposal from the SDP. But when you're talking, it's nothing, then I'll remind you, that there are, therefore, the unemployed defenders, the higher amount of the lowest pension, the reduction of the age limit for retirement, more favourable conditions for family retirement. And you were talking about pension work, support for education, the right to an attorney, which we forgot, which was too much of a problem for the defence attorneys, especially when it came to The Hague court. Yes, and here are some government people who have experienced it in person. Then, the records of Croatian defenders, the regional unit of the Croatian Ministry of Defence and the protection of bankruptcy rights. And it would have been good if you had stayed on the content, then you started to give political qualifications, I understand you, because you were a minister, with a little irony and a little sarcasm, maybe some of the good things that you did at the time as a minister, were actually broken down by the statements of the top people of your ministry, which was actually the initiation of an assessment in front of your ministry, when you mention supplies guaranteed by a minimum fee, which was actually lower at the time with stricter terms. You remember those who did not accept it, at the centre, especially in public works, they lost that right, they made a note of it and about it similarly, as well as statements that, let's say, some other army actually did not suffer as much from PTSD as Croatian defenders. And these were actually the initiations of the protest itself in front of your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50401	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50402	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić, I was going to say, that it would be better if this law were called the Law of Change and the addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, because they do not have so many in general. Look, compare the laws, they are what Barisic and someone else's work, you know, quite similar. But, look, the protest took 250 people, a year and a half to eat and drink at the Laguna Hotel, 11 project teams, commissions, and it should have been said that something had brought that promise. Don't say that the reason for this protest is this statement or anything else, so it was completely clearly detected two years ago why it was the cause of the protest. Everyone's already agreed to it, someone can change history any way they want, but that's the data they're talking about. A minimum fee guaranteed, do you think someone in the last fortune of the ministry put money in their pocket? If they'd given me five million, they'd have given me five, if they'd given me 50, if they'd given me 500, 500, they'd have got as many people as there was money. The less funds, the more claims are being reduced, that's logic. But here I have now expressed my deep desire and faith that 82 thousand unemployed Croatian defenders, beware of this being recorded, will receive compensation because they are unemployed. When the law is in those hard covers, bring it to me to eat it, 100% here I'll have it with a glass of water I'll eat it, and maybe without it because it doesn't have the resources. Besides what Plenkovic promises, he shouts only he has, he has, but with one fish he will have a hard time feeding everyone. And as for PTSD once again, I am also behind it, so I lived there and my parents are still near today, so in Borovo Sela where everyone or almost everyone participated in the rebellion against the Republic of Croatia there are no PTSD patients. Why? ... And they're sick and in a wheelchair and with no hands and no legs and everything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no money, there's nothing. We'll see now, new PTSD deadlines are opening for 40,000 demands, who's going to stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50403	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50404	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Matic, I appreciate your contribution to the Homeland War, I appreciate your sacrifice in concentration camps, but as former Croatian Defence Minister you could have prepared yourself better for this topic. This is a very important law, and from your political speech, you could read one indignation, one irony, ok. It's an integral part of your political habitat and whoever little follows your work knows you're using irony. But actually, you've mentioned some new defenders, some speciality of HDZ, again. I will remind you that you have made a statement, which is likely to inherit Mesic's mantra as one of the relatives of the detudmanization, that 150 thousand false defenders and that you will handle it in a few weeks and expect Milanovic, then prime minister, to be the settler for Canada. You recently mentioned again to sell the apartment, to move out of Croatia, I understand your bitterness, I personally would not like you to move out of Croatia but to fight as best you think we live in a better and fairer society, but I will tell you as a psychiatrist, do not underestimate the diagnosis of PTSD. In Israel 9% of the total population suffers from PTSD. The question of potential instrumentalisation and certain secondary gains could be discussed, but would leave it to expert discussions. But you are simply with your way of speaking when you were a defender, provoking and disdaining Croatian defenders, it is an irrefutable fact. I'm a psychiatrist, and I've met people every day. You're talking about Djur of the Grand Hero of the Homeland War that he's a hypocrite. So what do you expect from Croatian defenders? We do not have to agree politically, but try as one public person to advocate the culture of dialogue both in the Croatian Parliament and in Croatian society in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50405	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50406	Thank you very much, thank you for your good wishes. I hope you're not like Dr. Dodig to make a diagnosis over the TV screen. You know, he also got involved in that heist at the time, so he said he reads from Đura Glogogic security, honesty and everything, and he sees everything else with me. Well, I hope not. My dear sir, I hope you weren't even in a physiological prison, and I was everything. For a year and a half because of these here and some of these, for a year and a half, the police were right behind me. Look at my record, I've never parked wrong in my life. And you're comparing a Vukovar defender who destroyed nine enemy tanks with someone, but I can't say right now because he's going to sue me normally and everything, don't compare me to some, he's in a wheelchair and he needs to have respect for them, and he's always been. Take a look at the footage before your team takes it into processing, Mr Matic performs everything despite the difficult situation and carries out all obligations to Croatian defenders economically, an example of good cooperation. Then you cut him off, then suddenly there's another story. Don't tell me that. So you lived through that mountain of insults and threats worse than me, and I endured it. And you know why? Because I'm a better man than they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50407	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50408	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Matic, I listened to your presentations where you claimed that certain defence associations were politicised and that they were practically HDZ branches. I believe that there is some truth in this, just as I believe that as Minister of Croatian Defence, it was not at all pleasant to perform your honorable function. However, I must point out here that unfortunately there are associations close to your site, which are also politicised by you, that they also organise protests and that only members of your party appear on them, which are reportedly citizens' associations. So now that we mention these anomalies, which is that associations are politicized, as much as they are conditioned by the allocation of some financial foundations if they support a certain political option both at national and local level, then let's clear up the situation as a whole, remove that anomaly from Croatian society and let's simply leave the associations to society, and let politics deal with politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50409	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50410	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, you saw it yourself in my presentation I said that associations have been strongly instrumentalized for 27 years by HDZ alone, so I'm talking about over 95% of them, and I allow even though I don't know one, I really don't know which is related to the SDP. But what I'm trying to tell you is that in their statutes, all one association is writing. Non-party, non-profit, non-governmental. Just remember in front of the Ministry of Defense who were there and here you are sitting now and Mr. Djakic will confirm it to you. During my time as minister, as we call it, Mr. Djakic, Mr. Mercep's large association, Decakova, led by the HVIDR, they would never get any lip because I prescribed the criteria, did meet the criteria, did get the funds. As many as there are. I never put any lip in my pocket to deny anyone. As much as there was funding, they got it. They know that I like to joke, I used to say, you know how hard it is to share these associations, I said, close yourself in one room, have 20 million and share. Do you know how to share? Only the only one would survive would come out with that 20 million. No way, they'd kill each other... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50411	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50412	Thank you very much. Dear Matic, there is an old song that says "You should know how to stop when it's over". I really don't understand your desire to continue to engage in some confrontation and struggle with the population in which you were minister, i.e. which in some way, as you say, you have struggled to make such a debate that was more or less fine throughout the day, a little nervous, really what it is when we see that we can almost find a common language, almost everyone around this bill here in the Croatian Parliament because you started here with the debate, the first sentence "Law is bad" in the middle was no longer bad, and in the end we will support it with two or three conditions. So, I get the feeling that you're unsatisfactory as a former minister, that this population simply didn't understand all of your good intentions for her, and it happened to be some new minister. There's a peace, there's a different way of treating that population, and it's trying to make them the most good thing that can be done in this financial political situation that we have in the country. Indeed comparing what we had, with that finale we had on 29 and 30.5.2015 here in Mark's Square, where we have defenders in the Church of St. Mark, we have protests, one government relationship to one population that ends in an almost tragic way. With what we have today, it's not comparable situations. A minister who allows his assistant or someone at a college to say that someone is sprayed or told someone to add one and it would be a mass grave. That population didn't deserve the first human relationship that we're talking about today. These are some mistakes, something needs to be learned and should not be hurt by events that are now slightly different and positive. Here's the thing I wanted to add something to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50413	Thank you. Dear Representative Matic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50414	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Joseph, that means the answer would be the same as Dr. Celic. How sweet, honeyy and kind you don't want any manipulation but when you're in power. So, give it somewhere, you'll probably keep this recorded, and you probably won't be in power forever, so what are you going to think of next? So, the authorities are changing, the furniture's changing, and I'm glad today even here, we almost missed out on Mr. Karamark. So, here I am sorry that he left because here's the MOST screwed me up, every day I have to blink a card and he said that day, legendary day, laws, what laws, so those defenders, did you want it? And now that you've calmed down these associations, when you've got them, when I hear from them, say there was a meeting, I've heard, I think I have friends, too, what INA, Agrokor, these steals hold-don't give, and says legendary slowly, now ours are in power, don't make trouble. Well, Mr. Boric, let's keep this in writing and let it be for good. Here we go. It's like the assistant director's assistant. Any authority would want that when she's in power to form it and not touch it. Here you are now in power, take care of it. You've got a bunch of State Secretarys now, a bunch of other assistants, and you said you'd cut it down. Here, cut it down and then let every next power hold on to it. One secretary of state, five assistants. Two secretary of state, three assistants. Come on, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50415	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50416	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Matic, I appreciate you as a defender, but in this speech of yours, I felt one cynicism, one thing to explain, you asked the question that this man from Serbia who was supposed to agree on our missing defenders, 1500, right, so someone hurt him. So for 25 years we've been looking for our missing defenders, so we're as a people injured, we're a completely injured people, when we haven't found a good man from Serbia who wants to help us find it. That's number one. Then you said that the civilian victims of ten thousand will not be recognized because they are only thousands of Serbs. I feel that it hurts you, that something bothers you. Well, of course all Serbs who defended the Croatian state need the same rights as all Croatian defenders. I don't believe any Croats would be against it. And you know that, too, but that's not what you're interested in. I've never heard you mention Borovo Selo, for that famous monument in Borovo Selo, to say as a Vukovar, a defender, that it should be destroyed, that it didn't deserve to be in Croatia. No, that doesn't bother you. I, as a man, make it clear to you that two ideologies meet here. Pro-Yugoslavian and pro-Communist and since '91. Croatian. Not since '45. Croatian, since '91. Croatian ideology when it had its own country and we want to respect it and arrange it. However, I feel so that these 25 years are constantly breaking that the real Croatian ideology does not go away and that some pro-Yugoslavenian ideology is actually going to challenge everything that is good Croatian and should not be loved but should be constantly accused. Now, that's what I think that story is on that trail and what you're saying, I'd like you to defend the Croatian interests in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50417	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50418	So, dear colleague, every time someone points out that he's a defense attorney, I'd like to do a little combing where he was, what he was. It's usually just some PDs, lawyers, not to underestimate them, but it doesn't matter. 25 years after the war, you never have to tell me that you appreciate me for being a defense attorney. That's it and that's it, that's the end of the story. But Croatia's interests will be best defended by the truth. So obviously you're reading poorly, so don't be angry. So, I've said a million times about that monument, and the other day, I said that flag goes 500 meters away and it's as good as it wants if you were here and you were listening. But no. So, on the missing, I'll tell you. You know who I was talking to? I love you. You know what my colleagues say. I express myself. I've spoken to people on the same tram. And you know why? To get information. And I don't know what I'd do to him, and I don't know what I'd do to him to get information. But if you're the guest who's come, who's been doing it for 25 years, and he's not a rattler, it's certainly not, but you insult him here on a dog car that I allow and the truth. But you can't run politics like that. I mean, let's go down here, so who's stronger than you? So what are we going to vote on? So some people have clearly misunderstood what democracy is and how it is handled. So I've pointed out a million times and I don't need to be reminded that I was a defense attorney. Don't even mention it to me again, though. Because whoever's calling for that means he didn't pay his taxes, so he says I'm a defense attorney, so that's why you're hurting me. This one says I'm only sacrificed because I'm a defense attorney, and when you get into his defensive status, so now I can say, for example, some of them have become so legendary disabled because they turned around with the car when they went to buy beer. Only a fool under grenades goes shopping for beer. But nothing, we're still giving him what he needs. This country gives it to him, and he spits on us. The second wounded 500km from Croatia, he is the leader of the protest. It has nothing to do with Croatia, it is only a Croatian citizen, and it was won after the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50419	Thank you very much. I hope no one's going to get in here after all, but I'd just like to draw attention to something. It seems that in different ways and with different expressions, in fact, everyone agrees more or less and supports this law. Now, if that's the way I want to tell you, then we have another club of representatives and 23 individual representatives who called for a debate. After that, we have five laws left. My rough assessment is that, of course, with all the possible replicas that no one can dispute anyone it will last fat until after midnight. I'm bound to just tell you that. And now I'm going to ask the last club of MPs, and this is the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives, on behalf of whom the Honorable Representative of Rechim Varda will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50420	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to hold on to some way to this appeal from our vice president, so I'm going to shorten my debate. So I'm not gonna use all 15 minutes to give other colleagues a chance. So, Mr. Minister, I would only show myself on article 3 of the bill but with a statement that the club will accept this law in its first reading in the belief that by the second reading we will be able to fix some things. For example, in Article 3, we are talking about members of the People’s Protection. I believe that you didn't mean the total number of members of the People's Protection, but that part of the people's protection that was under the gun. In Article 3(4), you say that the status of the Croatian defender from the Homeland War will prove to be confirmed by the Ministry of Defence. That's the problem! Some associations, including members, so the National Protection battle group led a number of administrative disputes, so judicial disputes against the Ministry of Defence, because simply the Ministry of Defence responded negatively to every request, negatively, and this will happen now if you, as the Croatian Defence Ministry, do not resist the application of this article. Namely, I must tell you that it was the People's Protection in its number since the beginning of the declaration of Croatian independence, by the blockades of the military, by keeping objects of importance to the Republic of Croatia that actually showed the will of most Croatian people to defend the sovereign independent state of Croatia. That the People's Protection actually had ZNG, that parts of the People's Protection, so I'm talking about the fighting part, they were buying weapons with their own means. There's evidence for that. There are also membership cards, and there are also IDs on carrying and holding weapons. So, from the beginning to the end. And you can't, I don't know why, I personally didn't file any demands, personally I didn't because I thought it was my civic duty. I must tell you, and personally, I was the commander of National Protection in Tsravna Marshallka and there was the first dead citizen of Croatia. So from the People's Protection, and even a stone in the defense of the Homeland is a weapon, and not to say we were, there were over 1,500 of us and only a tenth of us armed. So, I speak for the People's Protection battle group, that's all I speak for. Personally, I don't need anything, but you know, when we're talking about confessions, then at least volunteer records, we don't have either that or let's say the president of the Republic advances you to the rank of officers, in the NN writes a lieutenant, and in the military book, so the Department of Defense writes a People's Protection Lieutenant. That kind of act doesn't exist, I don't know what forces within the Department of Defense did it that way and that's why they don't recognize the status. I assure you colleagues and colleagues, that members of the People's Protection are not seeking any privileges, no privileges, but they are asking for at least recognitions, not this kind of attitude of the Ministry of Defense towards them. Namely, I must say, according to international law, if you want by definition of international war and humanitarian law, these are acts of combat and our military terminology. I must say that the Constitutional Court, I believe that you know about this solution, as of December 2014, also gave an opinion positively for that period, for the struggle composition of national protection. And I don't know why we're afraid of numbers. Let's check out those lists that were sent to the Department of Defense immediately upon the end of the national protection, we all delivered them. I must say in person of 1500 my list consists of three parts. One part is the ones who signed up so they didn't come, the other part those who were from the beginning to the end in the fighting section and the third is the ones who went from the public protection to the ZNG, and that's all. But no positive solution and people are normal questions. And this is my mission today to speak from this pay phone because that's what people are asking me to do, members of the people's protection. I'm asking if you were able to do it in '91, including '92. even part of it, freed and run war operations in the battle zone of the Croatian Army without blocking the military, without winning those military, without hijacking weapons, without knowing what I know about what we were doing there on the Assembly Mountain and around. Therefore, I ask you to shorten my request that you, as Minister of Croatian Defence in the application of this law, bring the Ministry of Defence into order in terms of the intensities of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50421	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50422	Thank you very much. My colleague Vard, your debate moved me to a replica and I am asking myself one question sitting, listening to these discussions whether our defenders and citizens of Croatia are at the foundation of this debate in the Croatian Parliament even know what is proposed with this law. I don't think there's practically anyone who can read it. And I was encouraged by your debate, you touched a part that wasn't solved, and we're here today arguing about something that was 27 years ago, and there are so many living witnesses. Then how are we going to solve some of our traumas from the distant past? So some forget what happened in '91. In the spring, they forget what happened in 1.8 when crisis headquarters were founded, forgets that the crisis headquarters were carriers of everything in the field and were also commanders of brigades and people's protections and commanders of the MUP and all, now watch the presidents of the crisis headquarters do not have the status of defenders, but are bearers of the Memorial of Homeland War 1990-1992. So very interesting, we won't talk about it because we don't have the courage. But that's why I'm hitting on each other and what bothers me terribly, and I've been talking about it for years whether I was a member of the ruling or opposition and as a minister, Croatian defenders, because of the dignity of the Croatian state, must not be a protesting monnet. Key question on us as representatives, do we agree that Croatian defenders have these rights or do they not, and then, if we agree, we must ensure that in the state budget. Because I say after this debate how long it takes today to ask any Croatian citizen and defender he unfortunately cannot read from what is said here what Croatian defenders are going to get or will not get, and this is the biggest tragedy of all of us who are discussing here in this way. But I repeat, with any defilement of Croatian defenders, we are muddying the Croatian state because the Croatian state was created in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50423	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50424	Dear colleague Shuker. Ha, I don't really have anything to add to your replica, I totally agree with you. But I was obliged to point this out, if nothing else to the memory of Raven Guard who was killed after the tanks came out of Marshallka towards Slovenia. People's protection prevented these tanks from going to Slovenia, so I owe it to that first dead man to say what I said. Thank you, too, for your rep.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50425	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50426	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Varda. You mentioned what is equally dear to me, extremely important, so it's about members of the people's protection. Before the Assembly of the People's Guards and Brigades formed, these men volunteered, they were members of volunteering, and then when the brigades were formed, I remember and I personally signed from the Defence Office a form came in which we signed that we were mobilized. So at that point they were, they were actually volunteers who called themselves. Later we see the legal proposals, and this legislative proposal introduces a volunteer as someone who spent 100 days, which is actually not a volunteer by its definition. The volunteer is the one who answered alone without a call from the Defense Office. So, especially should they be mentioned, many of them, as you yourself said, are this third group that they later passed to the National Guard Assembly, which remained on the battlefields. But this whole debate today I see these polemic tones being run around, whether we have money or not for certain groups. It would be the happiest solution, that Croatia's economy, that Croatia is progressing so well, that we have enough money, that we don't even ask the question, are we going to be able to meet these obligations that we have accepted, and in that sense I understand also a colleague of Matic who spoke here while he was Minister. I think he made it clear that if there was money, he would have done it. I hope and deeply believe that this government will succeed, because if that doesn't happen, then all we talked about today will be blank letters on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50427	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50428	My colleague, thank you for the replica, that you were actually talking about people who did not have any obligation, not in reserve, nor in the composition without a mobilization call, but what is important, exactly this kind of response of the citizens of Croatia in the composition of national protection, shows in fact the will that we expressed in the referendum. The will of the Croatian people to preserve their independence. And that's why everything went further. Without that, we wouldn't have won the war. They don't win the war, only military units, the war gets the people behind it all. And second of all, I wasn't talking about money at all. I know one fish can't be fed much, but five can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50429	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate and the first one, no excuse, we still have one club, two sorrys. Two clubs. I was a little hurried, the first club of GLAS representatives to speak on behalf of the distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50430	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, we actually express, we welcome, in fact, that the government has given itself the effort, i.e., the competent ministry, to try to make one law, which will regulate everything regarding the rights of Croatian defenders and their families. However, I have already said in the introduction of a replica, in one part of the provision and the rights passed by this law and where these rights are significantly or extended or introduced by this law, we have a problem. We have a problem, from a purely principled point of view, and that is that whenever and in any case, a certain group of people, regardless of what it is about, in this case, Croatian defenders, you expand, you increase your rights, and on the other hand, you have a group of people in that same Corps of citizenship that would be compared to social status or social status in society with those same situations where the Croatian defenders are, bringing these two groups or three or more groups of citizens into a completely different position. If we were a state of prosperity, if we were a country of profile, let's say one Norway, and we could give all these rights that we have incorporated into the Defense Act to all similar groups in our society as rights and extend their rights, we in GLAS wouldn't have any problem with this law. However, what is proposed, and in particular, it seems to me, we seem that some of the provisions in this law are even intruding into the constitutional rights of all citizens, and that is equality. But about that, then, perhaps the Constitutional Court will have something to say about this bill. So we can't put our citizens in a particular situation in a different position. And that, unfortunately, seems to be the law. It means that we are arranged in all segments of society, that we are a legal and social state fully arranged, which adequately cares for all the rights of its citizens, socially existential, housing rights, rights to education, that I do not now list them. Then actually this law would probably be too high, because then all those rights through the system would have everyone. But we have a problem and we have a law that puts a group of people in a special position. Since we haven't all these 22 years since the end of the war, I'd say, you'd dare say right. So we solved problems in a systematic and adequate way, but occasionally, we traded politically with a group of people in Croatian society. We've come into a position that these demands that come from a certain group have no end, no end, and that's what we see in this law. Because under this law, the proposal of this law, these rights are extended in a way that it will affect, firstly, a much wider circle of people than it is already affected by the existing law, and it will affect some future generations, which means that it will cause both in future situations and additional and financial costs, but probably do in our society to further divide because we need to know that, at the same time with these rights offered to our defenders of this law, we have a whole series of groups of our citizens, say unemployed, that's the same category, then one category, then one category of citizens who work for minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, then you have categories of citizens who have worked 40 years, have a full-time job experience, who have retired from 65 years of age, who are far below the rights that we give to Croatian defenders according to the proposal and under these current laws, and these rights are further extended to this law. What bothers us especially is, for example, the part about children. To share children with them according to their children as defenders and therefore have the right to a warm meal, they do not have a certain right of advantage, in relation to some other children whose parents work for the total income of I don't know, 3, 4 thousand kuna, who will not have the right to social censorship of some cities and municipalities on a warm meal, say at school, what kind of message we send when we say these people's children have the right to do so, and these people's children have no right to do so. Or we didn't stop this second part. So if we're a social state, let's stop everything. Of course, we don't have any money for that. And then we actually put ourselves in a position, or we bring our defenders, who would like to raise dignity with this law, we're actually doing the exact opposite thing because we're marking them. Because our defenders, our heroes, our dead in the war didn't fight to be more privileged than some others but fought for a free country in Croatia. I am convinced that the largest majority of all who went to war regardless of whether they volunteered or went through mobilization, that that is why they fought for this Croatia and not to produce laws in which they will be protected by rights and privileges in a way that is potentially even threatened by some other groups and groups in this society, which, by their status, may be more endangered than they themselves. So it's something that's unacceptable to us, that in this way we produce and propose laws in this country. That we're not really equal. And now there's that key problem, and that's that this law isn't really proportionate. There is no principle of proportionality. If we give certain rights, then we need to know that these rights can and must apply to all in the Republic of Croatia, to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Not just the defenders. And the defenders, of course, should be given an extra degree of dignity and should be given respect, but respect and dignity is neither bought nor sold nor measured by money, in my opinion. Not even any extra rights in terms of whether someone will have the privilege of enrolling in a school or college, in my opinion, yes, on equal terms. So with the same results. And not at all costs or in front of whatever. Or a hot meal. So we at our club have a saying, this fundamental problem with this law, which is that it's not actually related when we look at the generals, to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There's always a question of course, there's been a lot of talk about pensions, about supplies, about the meaning of material rights, but here I was when I had a request from our defenders to build their own apartments in the local self-government unit. And now the state, and in the bill of this law, and in the past law, is always very much scattered that it will always come out and that there is no problem at all if there are conditions that these apartments can be built, the defenders then, of course, repay it in one piece, these are not apartments that they get on a gift, but certain conditions can be made easier for them to come up with a solution to their housing issue. I was in a situation where we sent a letter to the state, to our ministry in charge, asking the state to give up, or to leave it to the local self-government unit, or to leave it to those defenders one plot, one location for the construction of these apartments. We've never even got an answer. Not even an answer. Because the unit of local self-government unfortunately did not have adequate and appropriate, because we wanted a suitable space for building such apartments, and so it happened that the state and the owner, not one but two such parcels, did not even answer that question. So she invited us to talk about it at all. ... What? [[You can't hear it.]] No, it wasn't at the time of Pejnović, it was already at the time of the current furniture but I can understand that in the woods some various requirements can be very difficult to meet everything in time, there is already a thank God, almost a year. Of course, our defenders were very dissatisfied with such a relationship and, of course, accused that first instance of government of not doing anything despite the haste that went towards the ministry, they never got rid of it. So to me, that's the question of that dignity now. We can write whatever we want in the law, but if we do not respond in time, if we are not able to solve problems within the framework and existing laws and possibilities that we have, then we are, in fact, showing how we treat defenders. And finally, we'll try some amendments. Yeah, I just wanted to say one more detail, see if I have some more time. In his opening statement, the minister said that statistics say he died, I suppose he meant above the average number of defenders, meaning at an early age. However, my colleagues told me that the statistics of the School of Public Health are just the opposite. Absolutely defenders as such do not stand out in this number of deaths in relation to another population, so it is not true, which means that there is nevertheless a certain level of quality of care for defenders and in this health care area, which means that this is not any argument that could move us to adopt certain rights and certain benefits that would go in the direction of reducing that same data, which is clearly not correct. So we're going to try with a few amendments in the second reading let's say to reduce this discretion we see. So it's kind of an unequal attitude towards the citizens. I'm not going to mention what pension relations are, like, the amount of pensions because they're very different. I mean, in fact, the average of some kind of defense pension and the average pension from work is almost double. It's kind of an average of 2,200, 300 or 500 kuna, and this is average if you took everything away from 5,000 kuna. So that's a big difference. We go from the state to tens of thousands of young people, and I think that when we send these messages that we will treat citizens in one way for another 20 or 30 or 40 years, and everyone else in another way thinks we are sending the wrong message and that we can do another reading if we want to correct these injustices, or at least a little extort them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50431	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a very large sequence of replicas. Now we'll continue with the replicas if anyone else remembers. The first replica was the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50433	Dear colleagues, you have looked back and compared the pension rights of Croatian defenders and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so I feel invited and called to say, to compare one situation to how many women at the age of 30 who had to go to early retirement for 5 years, and her employer kept a minimum wage or did not pay contributions. So the state provides her with the safety of the lowest pension and she will get 1860 kuna pensions reduced by 20.4%. So he'll get 1,500 kuna in 30 years' work. It's not going to be a man's defense attorney's reckoning. It will receive at least 42% of the average of Croatian pensions, so it will receive about 2 and a half thousand kuna for the same internship and will now be awarded according to this proposal for each, for a specific presence on the front line, a increase in, therefore, the days it was on the battlefield. Know only one thing, if these are seen by those who have the lowest pensions, and there are more than 220,000 in Croatia. So it's all of them, especially those who haven't been paid regularly in the last 20 years, or who have been on minimum salaries, so that they don't look favorably, and that every increase in some way harms the defenders and the image, and in some way, stegmatizes the defenders. I pray that in these discussions and in these writings of the law there is a sense of measure, because for some time in our best intentions we can make a completely wrong picture and reaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50434	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50435	Comrade Hrelja, I was just in my debate to highlight this problem that we think may be essential, which is that disproportionateness in the law. So certain groups of people versus other citizens or other endangered groups of people in the Republic of Croatia. And given the overall and financial and economic situation in which it is not possible, because it is objectively not possible to put all potentially endangered groups of people in the same position or at least in a similar position, then we think that it is not appropriate to extend additional rights, means in a particular group and not to think about what you were talking about, which is that someone with a 30-year job experience simply under our laws will have a pension that will be less than minimum wage in the Republic because it is simply so. If by extending these rights we are restoring someone's dignity, I'd like to hear just the right answer from someone who went to the Homeland War from the initiative to defend their country, not to guarantee themselves today or tomorrow a certain privilege. Unfortunately, I have to say that the HDZ colleagues promised it to certain people who deal with the defence population or let's say the waters of a certain association and that they keep their promises, I respect it. However, I have already said, and in the opening of my replica, Minister here we have been elected to speak for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to defend the interests of all citizens in the same way and under the same conditions, and therefore my debate went in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50436	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50437	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened closely to the words of my colleague from the GLAS Club of Representatives and I can tell you that I did a little bit of work on how other countries regulate the status of defenders, people who were victims of war, and it is logical that there are special laws for that. Special laws exist for people who are victims of war, for their families and of course for defenders, as well as in Croatia. That's understood, that's normal stuff. I am happy that Minister Medved made with his team a decisive bill that came from the Croatian government, because if you want to normalise the category of defenders in Croatian society, normalize their role in Croatian society will no longer be. We must achieve this burden in Croatian society, but it will indeed be of extra value. That's what we have to do. When a defense attorney has a problem, he can turn around and get rid of that problem. I've seen it a little bit in France and Britain and Germany and Canada, America. That's how it's regulated. Their rights are normal things and thank God they are. Thank God, too, so we finally defined what they were fighting for, who they fought against, who they fought for. And if it bothers anyone, it has nothing to do with common sense and common sense. That's defined, and for that, I'm also taking off your hat, Mr. Minister, and your team. And we don't interfere with other people's affairs, we don't comment on who's raising a monument to Gavril Princip, who started World War I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50438	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50439	Comrade Kovac, I agree with you that the bill, I said that we expected this bill to, as I say, solve most of the issues, solve them in one place. But we expected them to be resolved in a more adequate way, and first of all, I repeat to the proportion of our country's capabilities, the relative state of society, the social conditions, the other vulnerable groups, the conditions in which we unfortunately have mass people leaving Croatia. And you when you send a message and you send a message that I don't think is uplifting to all citizens. I'm talking now about all the citizens in Croatia and you say a certain group has privileges that will have the next according to this as it is now proposed in the law for twenty and more years, then you send me the wrong message. Now, other countries. Yes, other countries have also taken care of their disabled, but you know how. We, for example, don't have a quality military hospital in our country. Why don't we have it? To that number of defenders, the defense population, I think our country should have a military hospital, a hospital where all our disabled people, people with various damages, would have adequate care, where all of this must be done in skill and in the exercise of certain rights, where they would have adequate rehabilitations, etc. In these ways these countries primarily care for their defenders, veterans, or whatever they call them, and not in a way that puts them in this situation that we're going to put them in, to actually turn them into a privileged group of people that they're going to, I'm afraid that's how it's going to be. One part of our citizens won't welcome it, and I told you which part is also threatened in a similar way or in some social status that this country cannot and has no financial opportunities to adequately solve it, and certain groups solve it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50440	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50441	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I hope to make myself clear. Dear Mrs Đuric, in your presentation you spoke of being equal or more equal or that perhaps the status of Croatian defenders are Croatian defenders in favour of other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's just not true. The Social Care Act when you look at it, it takes great care of all the groups of our society. Of course he has his shortcomings and that he will change as such, in accordance with the circumstances in which we are present, the Republic of Croatia numbers about 503,000 people with disabilities. You know that now it's about the Act of Inclusive Supplement, that it's about other people's help, care, that people with disabilities get and use those rights. Perhaps not to the extent that we would like them to actually have such the best possible help in the Republic of Croatia, that is, the best possible care. When we talk about the circumstances that have occurred, you should know what the Croatian state is based on. That's what Mr. Kovac was talking about now. What is it based on? So you have... about Croatian defenders because these are the circumstances that happened to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it hadn't been for these circumstances, we wouldn't be talking about these things in the Republic of Croatia today. When you talk about these things, which you have pointed out several times, and your colleague Goran today, and you on behalf of the club, then repeat a mantra of civil associations and a certain number of media, which in fact wants to get through to the public because of what you call a privilege. It's not about any privileges, it's about certain rights that these people deserve because it happened to them. In a similar way, for example, me or someone who was on the battlefield who was not paid to contribute, so his pension is also reduced. And something else when you were talking about benefits for Croatian defenders, I'll tell you for the public. The latest data from retirement insurance, participants... have 14601, average pension of 2680 kuna, annually 469 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Members of the executive council of about 4.5 million kuna, members of former JNA 6782, average pension of 3052 kuna, 248 million kuna. So much for the public and for all of us to discuss this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50442	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50443	I will look only at this one part, because I think you in HDZ especially like to manipulate that fact that it is only you and those who follow you, those who wanted the Croatian state. So the Croatian state, its foundation is the will of the Croatian people, is the will of the Croatian people, to have its own state. At the moment that state was threatened, almost everyone was defending the state. I am now not going to go into historical stories, who has been in some areas of the Republic of Croatia, because we know all that. And we know who the aggressor was and we know everything. But that was the will of Croatian citizens, in which all Croatian citizens participated, regardless of whether they were on the front line of the battlefield or taking care of refugees. I personally participated and lived with them 800 and something, for the areas of Vukovar and I know exactly what traumas and what these people have experienced and how they've been through and how they've felt. And I know what was invested in those five years of war by the Croatian people. But I don't think anyone in this country has the right, nor does HDZ, nor does Mr. Glogoski, nor does Mr. Clem take credit for creating Croatia's state. That the only one has the right to speak about the fact that the Croatian state wanted it and that it only loves it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50444	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50445	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Turina Đuric, in your debate, you said you would love to, and I also support that Croatia is a social state and fair to all groups of society. Of course it's in these circumstances, when we have the budget that we have, when we have health dues, when we have problems with pension funds and loan returns problems, it's hard for her to always be socially just. If not, we also heard in the opening report, that over 88,000 defenders are unemployed, that a large part of them are without any income and that there must be a way for those who are working at work to help with the day-to-day development of this society and this state. And so those who work for a certain time and for the salary of 2500-2600 kuna, to raise their salaries and get a contract to work indefinitely, so that they can live from their work, not to go outside Croatia. You said that no one should be shared in society, especially when it comes to children, and that I fully agree with you in this part of the law is mentioned in education, which is commendable, that through the Law on Defence is talked about education, free textbooks for the children of defenders, and I advocate that all children in Croatia have free textbooks and other aids and scholarships that they can study. You said there was no money for it. However, sometimes this little money he has, it seems to me that we're wasting purposelessly, and it is stated here in the law that care about these jobs will now be transferred from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Defence. So it may also be for the public debate and for the minister, to think until the second reading, whether it is necessary, if we double administrative capacities, if there are people at the Ministry of Education who are doing these jobs so that the Ministry of Defence can base them and keep that part of the job at the Ministry of Education, and I think it would save them the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50446	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50447	So I see that most of our colleagues agree on the attitudes around this law. What I'm going to look back on is this when you mentioned free textbooks. So, we also have a situation in Croatia where around local self-governments compete which will enable their citizens, i.e. parents and children, free textbooks and this story is very charming in Croatia. So some local self-government have, some have no chance of that. Now, I'm interested in a situation where in a municipality or city, where such a subsidy does not exist by local self-government, certain children will receive free textbooks, and other children will not get it because that municipality has no opportunity for free textbooks. And in that context, it was my whole debate. We must systematically raise this country in all aspects. And we can't have citizens of first and second categories, third or not. And in some ways we do, the expansion of these rights we do exactly that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50448	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Sanja Putice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50449	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed representative Turina-Đuric is a general banalization that you have tried to equate all groups of society. I will not answer you with the banal truth that the defenders cannot equalize with the other groups because on their backs and lives this country has grown and for which we are actually sitting today in this Assembly and we can advocate improving the rights of all Croatian citizens. But what is not true from your debate, and I have just checked it at the Ministry of Demography, Family and Social Policy, is that this law will put children in an unequal legal position in certain schools, so I want to introduce you to the truth, that since this school year in Croatian schools thanks to the implementation of the European Fund for Helping the most needed or FEAD as it is called. In schools, they are actually responsible for establishing criteria that children can get a warm meal which is much better than before, and so far the property censorship was slightly smaller than 2000 kuna per member of the family, so all such children could get a warm meal, and today I say in schools are criteria. Schools are much better aware of their local environment, their families and their children, thus expanding the circle of children who receive warm meals. And those children who do not enter these measures, the European Fund is also registered for the “Croatian Children’s Foundation” contest. So here you see we have examples of how the Croatian state is working on the equality of all its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50450	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Turina Đuric. He won't? Thank you. Dear Representative Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50451	Dear Vice President, distinguished counterparts Turina Đuric. I've apostrophed two things in your presentation. You questioned money and equality, so here's the fact. This law will not take away any social group. So no one is denied this law, and at last many, many can be helped. What the Ministry of Finance will single out won't take away anyone's bread from their hands is what we're all aware of, and finally rights that haven't been settled unfortunately for too long. A proposal of equality. I wouldn't compare defense rights to the rights of the unemployed or the disabled. On the contrary. One doesn't rule out the other. How many people are disabled or unemployed among the defense population? And as for money, you can't stand for equality in your debate and challenge the right to someone's victims. Not that they don't need money, not that they're given too much, but there's no money that can make up for the life of someone closest or healthy. And what is felt in this debate is not only yours but in general, that perception is such that certain states are with great dignity and with gratitude to their defenders especially the United States. And with us individuals and the media are declaring them not to tell the burden of society and parasites. Well, the winner of the Liberation War can't become a loser and a burden on society in peace. It's sad and it's sad. You mentioned the hospital. How the hospital, if you think the money is already too much and it's contradictory. Why did I bring the United States? Well, because their health care system is only giving away 32 billion dollars for the health care system of veterans.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50452	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50453	Comrade Rusak, I think in some things you've misunderstood me or I don't know, I'm afraid you'll twist And I'm sorry! [[That's not a Russian colleague, but anyway.]] I don't know either you didn't understand me or maybe you didn't want to understand me so you could interpret it the way you interpreted it. I'll just give you a brief answer. The integrity and justice of this country is manifested in our economic and social state, and I will not elaborate it. But one of the worst indicators is that lately people have left this country for not only economic reasons, economic reasons, but also political, or social reasons. And then you think about the basis of all of this that you've counted for me, and your colleague before I've replicated that everything is very good in this country and that people feel the same, that everything is just, that everyone is adequately given equal chances. You judge whether it is or not based on what is happening right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50454	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. You were talking about the discretion and inequality that this law is actually going to produce because the rights it has laid down actually puts the defenders and other groups in the society in an unequal position. As colleagues have already said, I think you've confused pears and apples, because the Croatian defenders we're talking about here today have created this country and we can't even them out with everyone else in society. Of course there are problems in society, there were before and after NOB when many and today still exercise rights as NOB fighters and members of their families. I've never heard anyone ask a question about how much those rights cost in our society. Since the end of the Homeland War, it has often been more difficult for Croatian defenders to ask for something and cost a lot, and they are burdened by these countries. I think the time has come to put an end to it, because Croatian defenders have created this state, they have the right to live a man in peace, because they have given part of themselves for this country. I'm asking if they were in the same position as our defenders who went with the tangerine and the jeans to defend the state with those who didn't go there. Are children growing up with parents who grew up without a father or both parents killed as Croatian defenders? Whether they're in the same position as the wives who nurse their husbands who have lost their limbs or us who have healthy husbands. We can't talk about equality here. So our defenders have the right to a decent life and the dignity you've been talking about, and they can't have it unless they have bread and milk, if they're unemployed and they're forced to be in shelters for the homeless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50456	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50457	Okay. With this law, we may return the dignity of you Croatian defenders, I don't think we will, but definitely everything you do, you are doing in the direction of bringing down the dignity and dignity of every ordinary Croatian citizen, you are definitely doing so with every proposal you make.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50458	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50459	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What you should say at first is that this is, it's hard to say, the only but one of the few laws that gave an analysis of the situation and in this demographic and socioeconomic characteristics of Croatian defenders and it's surprising that one part of the MP here was not used to this data because then he would not discuss how he discusses. This data shows that the social position of Croatian defenders is more or less relevant to the rest of the population in Croatian society and therefore only about certain adjustments. I may not be precise now, over 200 thousand Croatian defenders are in labor, 83,000 are unemployed, which is almost 50% of the currently unemployed, as regards pensions, and you today, colleagues Turina-Djuric, said in the morning that defenders are an absolutely privileged group. Today, you're talking about a privileged group, and when it comes to pensions, you've mentioned pension differences generalizing the entire population by speaking about defenders, from 52,000 defenders in pensions, 44 thousand have left under the general Pension Insurance Act, and 26 thousand if I'm not mistaken, if I'm well-adjusted by my job experience with a minimal correction of what they have on the years of internships. Therefore, such generalizations destroy the dignity of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders because they are said to be absolute users, or the entire population of 442 thousand still living defenders, that they are users and material fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50460	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50461	Comrade Tudjman, speaking of data, I've got some data here, so maybe here's to correcting me if they're not good, so let me say about the defense pensions that come out of defense status. So according to this data, there are just over 72,000 users of defense pensions. One information is interesting, so at least the pension of 682 of them according to what I have 682 defenders used an old-age pension that is on average 2,470 kuna compared to that very large population of 72 000, that means those who worked until the end of their employment and will probably still be since one large part of the defenders are still working. The largest number of retired defenders are receiving a disability pension and I absolutely don't have that is a pension that I wouldn't say a single letter, I think they should be more and they're somewhere on average five thousand kuna, but I would love for all such pensions to have all the disabled in Croatia, all of them. And we can specifically form a fund with which we will say ok. The defense attorneys, especially because the state has a chance to add something to them. But out of these 57,000 as much as I have 313 defenders, I wouldn't take a kuna or ever think of it, but I wish this country had the strength to give all the disabled people such a pension, and that's what I was talking about. No one wanted to reduce anything to anyone, but equally to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50462	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues Turina-Đurić, I have experienced your debate as an attempt to say that Croatia should be a righteous society in which every citizen has the right to have the same chance of having a salary, a pension from which he will be able to finance his children's education, will not worry about health care when he is sick and the suggestions you were talking about actually wanted to improve the entire care of the defenders. So it is not clear to me why immediately on the right hand side of the assembly must go one salva replica which is as if it wants to show that the only right hand has the right to care in a quality way about Croatian defenders, which is not true. I also know your work as representatives and as mayor of a town of the Queen, as mayors of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and I know how practical you have contributed to the daily work that defenders live better. What I particularly wanted to report concerns the health status of the defence population, and I also proposed to the Committee on Health and Social Policy as soon as possible to hold a thematic session that will be organised together, and here I repeat it here and before the Minister's Committee on Health and the Defence Committee to deny a single story that has no basis, which is that the health status of the defender is worse than the health status of the population. I call for this session to be held until the second reading, and for the second time as this very high-quality publication, the minister delivers a report that already exists, which is a report by the Public Health Office, which monitors the ten-year state of the defence population by comparing the registry of the defenders and the registry of the deceased, hospitalization data, the number of suicides, and I don't have time to explain what it says, but it denies the fact that the health status of the defence population is much worse than the general population. And that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50464	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the distinguished representative Turine-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50465	A colleague Jovanovic, this right of some, especially a colleague on the right in the assembly, to some kind of exclusiveity when it comes to defending or defending certain rights of defenders, that is something that on this left hand side, it is personally offensive to me and the truth is, you said, I have also acted before the duties of the parliamentary representative and I have worked very well with the defense associations and, among other things, when we founded a memorial home or a memorial room of Croatian defenders for the level of the Primor-Gorski County, collaborated in the best possible way in cooperation, the financial resources were not naturally questionable when we did so. I think that we have made an appropriate space for what our defense population expected, but not only they, but the whole public in our county was also expected to open up such a memory room in which our citizens and especially those younger citizens can get acquainted with the facts and history that our defenders have passed above all on the face-to-face war because they were most attached to it. And also, I was involved in taking care of our defenders as regards health care and social care, and in the truth I must say that in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County, all institutions are tied up in a way that and what is really above the standards, which doesn't seem to be in certain other parts of our country, that down in the Primorje-Goran County, it seems, and that in particular, attention is paid, and I would agree with you, that these statements that defenders are in a much worse health situation, at least as far as the area where I live, I think it's absolutely not true, but here, I support this thematic session that we're going to talk about and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50466	Thank you. And the last replica is the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50467	Thank you. My colleagues Turina-Đuric, I would only refer to two points of your debate. First of all, the part of your debate when you talked about the rights of Croatian defenders' children to a free school meal where I got the feeling that you were alluding to the positive discrimination of children of Croatian defenders and putting them in a more favourable position than children, for example, from socially endangered families. It might be good to look at the facts and Article 123 of the bill proposing that only those defenders who are beneficiaries of unemployment benefits or guaranteed a minimum fee of 800 kuna should have the right to a warm school meal. So, I would like to really talk about the facts here, not alluding to the fact that Croatian defenders have any privileges compared to the other citizens of our country. And the second part when you spoke about statistics related to the premature mortality of Croatian defenders or the death of Croatian defenders at a younger age, I would like to show statistics on which you have at your disposal, just to talk about questionable or unquestionable privileges on one side and on the other, and I would like to discuss all of this today from the position that Croatian defenders are not a burden but the foundation of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50468	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50469	My colleague Bedekovic, I'm sorry, when we started the debate when the minister had an opening presentation, he was sitting next to me, a colleague of Varga, and he opened the pages, and I'm sorry that he didn't have it, and he opened the pages of the Institute of Public Health where, among other things, that information was, but I guess what he showed me wasn't false, but we can solve it together to find it, or to ask a colleague of Varga to show us that information, or where he found them, so I didn't make it up, but I said. As regards warm meals and in general these certain rights, I always appeal to the fact that our social censorships are unfortunately relatively low and in fact many children of parents or their children are in some situation of real poverty or inability to ensure a decent life and these warm meals are something in schools that we have long and multiple times advocated and even in this Croatian Assembly in various discussions that have been tied up in schools, which is that we should return to schools of course and kitchens and everything that went away from schools some 20, 30 years ago and provide their children of course under certain conditions with some co-financing of a warm meal. The worst when you start making differences on any basis among children because they don't know who has salaries, they look at themselves as children, drop friends, they're one side of each other and if we don't want to make a difference between them, then something like that should, if a certain right is already given, provide for everyone. OK, I would agree on certain criteria and not on everything equally. But that everyone has the opportunity to meet everyone and not just some. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50470	Thank you very much. Now the word will be taken by the distinguished Croatian Defence Minister, Tomo Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Given the sensitivity of this issue and the importance of quality and proper representation of all areas, so does this extremely sensitive area related to the improvement and mortality of Croatian defenders. Dear Mr Jovanovic, I am sorry, we have prepared a report at the Ministry of Croatian Defence and delivered it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'll read it here now. Here is a chart that very clearly shows the death rate of Croatian defenders. But as the Croatian Defence Ministry's rate and mortality of Croatian defenders is becoming increasingly public in 2012 in collaboration with the Croatian Institute for Public Health and Medical Faculty of the University of Zagreb, it joined the implementation of a scientific research project to monitor the improvement and mortality of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Implementation of the planned project takes place in three phases. In the first phase, data were analysed on the mortality of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and in the second phase, data on the improvement of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The third phase of project implementation has not yet delivered final results and the report has not yet been drawn up. In September 2016, the Croatian Institute of Public Health received a work version of the analysis of the mortality of the male defence population which has not yet been adopted or verified by the Commission for the implementation of that scientific research project involving representatives of all institutions participating in this project, or the Ministry of Health. And that was very clear on several occasions by the Ministry of Health. Data on mortality in the population of Croatian defenders The Croatian Defence Ministry is the basis of data on dead Croatian defenders obtained by breeding the register or records of Croatian defenders with the queen of the dead, showing an increase in mortality in each calendar year during the 12 years observed from 1998 to 2010, a total of 24 thousand 249 Croatian defenders died. While in the period since the ministry has kept annual and monthly records of dead Croatian defenders, from 2006 to 2017, according to collected, or delivered data, 36 thousand Croatian defenders have died, indicating that there has been an increase in the death rate of Croatian defenders since 2006, the number has been systematically increasing in a way that in 2006 there were 2 thousand and 51 deaths of Croatian defenders and in 2016 4 thousand and 73. We note that the above information for the period 2006 to 2017 is based on data on the deceased Croatian defenders by obtaining a pair of Croatian defenders' registers with the Matica of the dead. What is particularly important here to stress, one of the measures when we emphasized the unification of all important areas and issues related to Croatian defenders is this issue because the Ministry of Health, not one health institution, anywhere during the hospitalisation or providing assistance to the Croatian defender did not keep records of who is and who is not Croatian defenders. So they couldn't or could not have had these indicators. So we are building on this preliminary and unconfirmed report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50472	Thank you. We have two replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50473	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, that's exactly where I was arguing. So that's why I suggested that a joint thematic session be held until the second reading, two committees that follow this area and resolve the dilemma that is constantly repeated today and in the debates and each one that is so public and creates a vague state that throws the picture and our health system. So the data that you just said here doesn't say anything, so if they were to talk about whether more defenders are dying, whether they're more sick than cardiovascular diseases, whether they're malignancies, if there's more suicides, they'd have to compare it to some statistical data that are worth, some postulate, and then it would have some weight. What you've just said is, unfortunately, of course more defenders die over a certain period because they're older, but these data are not data that tells us about the real state of defence. And the goal of such a study is to see what priorities are based on it to reduce their mortality, extend their lives and increase the quality of life in the next period through preventive checks. That's the goal. So when we talk about the health condition of the defense population, there's no populism, no demagogy. There are as we say in medical records based on medicine, there are facts based on evidence and therefore should be done then and everything about care about the health condition of the defence population.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50474	Thank you. Dear representative Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50475	The esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed Minister of the Medved. In the context of today's debate and preparing for today's debate on this extremely important Law in the Croatian Assembly, I also spoke with a number of doctors dealing with the defence population and reminded me of the frightening data and the devastating data for our country, that in Croatia every third day, one defender commits suicide. That our defenders die on average at 51 years of age and from malignancies. Not from cardiovascular diseases like the rest of the population. Unfortunately, I also learned that American and Israeli research also said that 25 years after the trauma was experienced, the most critical year in which PTSD could be affected. So here, so much to understand the importance of this law and to realize that this law is only a good and quality platform and a basis for the adoption of a series of documents, as well as a national strategy to preserve the health of Croatian defenders. As I see it in these documents, that simply, the law must exist as a basis for it to actually remain rights, regulate their health rights, housing and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50476	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will now speak to the esteemed representative Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50477	Thank you, Vice President. A well-respected proposing, with a respected minister, co-workers and colleagues. First of all, I must really join the congratulations on the very preparation of this law, which in the first reading and materials that we have received, it is evident that this study has been abused and the proposal itself, let's say what is most positive in what we can read, that it includes all Croatian defenders, therefore, not so far as it has been for those Croatian wartime military disabled. In fact, both in determining individual rights and above all through a fair way of evaluation, we still have a reduction in age limits and an increase in the temporary retirement pension, which is exactly what the days spent are for. And what we'd like from the HNS Club just to point out a few questions and let's say to contribute to this law in the first reading. First of all, it refers to Art. 26. and further articles on the exercise of early retirement rights and old age pension. By one simple calculation, we come to one, let's say, so I can't say absurd, but to one data that the defender, when he goes into retirement, who had 35 or more years of employment, and unfortunately his average salary, that's a very common case in Croatia, not only for people who were defenders, but in general there were 4000-4500 or less kuna. According to any calculation, the general law goes to include an add-on to 27% or the law on Croatian defenders, i.e., according to a special regulation, its pension ranges from 1700, 2200, 2300 kuna. Therefore, it is subject to a provision on guaranteed minimum pension, from now on here 2612 kuna. And then the question arises that the same pension applies to the defender who got into retirement, so he turned 65, minus a certain number, which decreases during the battle sector, which we have five years or five days of internships. For me personally, it cannot be equated, it is not fair for me, that a person who has spent his full life and has been a defender and has the same number of days spent in the fighting sector has the same pension as a person who doesn't have nearly as many internships and has the same number of days in the fighting sector. And that's what I'd like to pay attention to further, and I'm going to actually make these suggestions, because that's something that certainly doesn't say that there should be a reduction in any defender, and that's a minimum regardless of the working time, but that just happens for those who have an average and personal value of the point, and if in all the calculations that are done, that kind of pay of 4000-4500 kuna in all calculations it turns out that way. Furthermore, what we are not clearly defined in this bill, which is that in many articles in many specific rights and the consumption of these rights arises a term that is new, compared to the previous laws, which is members of a wider family. Namely, this is where I would like to define exactly what it means both in the lease of business spaces and in the housing issue and in the law and you want to enrol, therefore, in all those rights that are consumed by members of the defence family and the dead defenders. That's the term I'd like to define. Is that what's going on with some of the following lines, so we're talking about first, second, third, fourth succession, nephews, cousins, brother, sister, etc. etc. whether or not they would like to be established by law or, in particular, by some implementing regulation. Also, the notion of an extramarital friend, who was transferred here from the general law, which defines family law, but how do you prove an extramarital community? If after the death of a dead defender it's enough to bring two witnesses and tell us we were in an extramarital community and then consume all those rights. I'm just saying that, not to argue for God's sake, they don't have extramarital friends of that right, but simply to avoid certain malfeasances. Therefore, it is also possible to approach a solution because it has been shown in practice that, in particular, any institution proves this either by administrative procedure or by court. Taxes go one way, certain pension rights on another. Of course, when there is a divorce then it is re-determined if there is no agreement, etc. So there should be the same attention so that there is no malfeasance with the rights themselves. Also what you would also touch with Art. 46. related to the allowance and the right to care and assistance services, we have a situation, where unlike the previous law, this time, if a person is a defender in a health care institution, the family continues to exercise the right to an allowance. What can it be? Yes or no, since the purpose of the extra is to help with home care and unfortunately sick defenders. However, in the case of a person’s rights of service, the provision of care and assistance is imposed a salary fee for a person who is about 3 and a half thousand kuna. I think it's about 115 or 117% compared to the disabled. So whether it excludes each other's compensation or if cumulation can be achieved. If this person is a member of the rope family, then perhaps you should consider shutting down the cumulation. If it's a third person, then that extra would still be of some use. Furthermore, as far as Article 167 is concerned, I will conclude this part of the exposure. This article speaks of, regulation that units of local and regional (regional) self-government are obliged to provide means to monitor the work and projects of associations, I am talking about defence associations, of course, in their area in the annual amount of 0.3% to 1% of the original revenue of the budget. In particular, I'm going to say the example of my city, so Osijek. The city of Osijek singles out for all associations in the budget annually, meaning the original assets of 450,000 kunas, among which I believe it I think 100,000 kunas and defense associations according to individual programmes and clearly defined criteria where people appear in the competition. In addition, 600 thousand kunas should obviously be allocated in order to meet the minimum conditions of the original funds. We believe that it can be implemented now that it is limited by a certain amount, so that in the end there are not enough associations that meet the conditions, so maybe not all that money is spent, so not some way that something is saved. But that would mean a million kunas a year for my city, specifically for the city of Osijek. Our proposal to respect the fiscal capacity of each individual unit, so that this is binding at a minimum of the percentage of the total funds allocated in the competitions. That means, if the city of Osijek gives 500 thousand kuna, then sometimes 20% must be for defenders. If he assigns a million, it's 200 thousand kuna. Or in such an amount, think about going in that direction, because I fear that in some municipalities, say, Zagreb is a minimum of 13 and a half million kuna, so it climbs up to 45 million. For Varazdin, that's 321 000. A minimum for Rijeka 400,000 only for funds that must be spent directly on defence associations. The absolute meaning of this law must be and focus is the defender, but we believe that through this funding we must have little hearing and for these fiscal capacities, and we think it would be good to think between these two readings or in reducing this minimum from 0.3 to 0.1 and to see how it is done. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50478	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Curray. We have one replica. Dear colleague Angelko Striker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50479	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this law doesn't just provide for users' rights under that law. So that's where we have the new definition of a participant in the Homeland War. So the Home War participant has no material rights intended for him, but only a moral satisfaction, a confession that he participated in the defense of our country. For example, this applies to all those who are in '91. They're standing in the defense of our country. For example, in territorial defense, the provisions of the National Protection and thus give them recognition. Among other '91s. It was also crucial in creation, but also in defense. For example, in Varazdin the entire JNA Corps is captured – 80 tanks, 70 armored combat vehicles, 18 single cannons, 6 VBRs Plamen, 4 VBRs Fire, 36 haubics, walking weapons for the armed of 10 brigades, 250 different vehicles, hundreds of mortars of various calibers. And so all those who weren't in the M.O.P. units or the National Guard Assembly don't have any rights for now, even if they're morally satisfactory. That's exactly what they're supposed to do with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50480	I thank my fellow uncle. My colleague Curaj's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50481	Here's the thing, I absolutely think we can agree on that, and I didn't say that at first. I think it has been mentioned several times that this law is exactly making this regulation of the status of members of the People's Protection because the previous law prescribed a period during which it was impossible to achieve this minimum condition of 5 months because the period was missing physically for 5 days. And by the way, when I was talking about the users themselves, of course, the focus is always the defender and defense association as some place to gather and worry about this if we can relate to the previous debate and the health and activities of the defenders themselves and their mutual assistance. It's not made up, it's not just us. It's liquids all over the world and absolutely it should be. I am just what I have referred to is related to the fiscal capacities and consequences of this law and this particular article relating to the insurance of funds in the budget for the operation of these associations so as not to get the situation and possibly unnecessary revolt of other civic groups in which to say here we cannot know so much about kindergartens or warm meals in kindergarten. But we have to because I don't know the law and the government told the defenders to give so much. Unfortunately, there will be those who will use it for those purposes. But let's go be smart and let's stop it already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50482	I thank my colleagues for the answer. We're moving on to individual debates. First came the honorary colleague Željko Lackovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50483	Thank you, Vice President, esteemed ministry gentlemen. I want to give my participation in this debate one pain to the adoption of a law that I welcome, but I also want to note that all those who want to speak critically about certain provisions of the law do so very carefully, and then I will at first say that I am a volunteer of the Homeland War and that I fully understand both the population and the defenders and all their problems. So what I want to notice from these numbers that are substantiated by this law is the fact that out of now about 200 thousand unemployed persons in the Republic of Croatia, 83 thousand of them are Croatian defenders, which will say that about 2.5 the ratio of unemployed defenders to the total unemployed, and on the other hand you have the number of defense attorneys who are 200 and about 5 thousand compared to a million 400 so you have a 1:7 ratio. Now, as a policy, we have to ask ourselves why that is, is the problem with defenders whether it's a problem in the legislation or is it a problem in our society? It is therefore evident that defenders in the Homeland War have fulfilled their obligation and achieved the desired goal and created, contributed to the creation of the Croatian state, but policies, social elites and all those who passed the laws, who managed the country in 25 years, have led to the fact that we have a practical ratio of the unemployed to one defender who is not a defender and that we have an employee defender compared to seven who are not defenders. This shows you the lack of concern of all of these generations towards defenders, and I fear that this law is not sufficiently elaborated in this direction, which is to enable and facilitate access to defenders, Croatian defenders towards employment. No measures have been developed here except for those previously existing ones which are now united in this law, which means an advantage in the employment of state bodies and units of local and other self-government. I don't think that's the only solution, but it needs to be given concrete, direct financial incentives for all entrepreneurs who operate in the Republic of Croatia who will then have a significant interest in any defender who is at the Employment Office to hire him and thus give him back his dignity in the best way. We're all afraid here for the defendant's dignity, and you can actually see that from this bill, if you, say, extend the right to a family pension, you're not going to give people a raise. You'll pay them back when you let them get a better job. It is certainly to welcome the fact that all rights must and can be achieved in one place and a number of other positive intentions stemming from the law. But we still have to be careful not to be unjust in these measures and legal decisions. I will mention Mr. Marija Pavlovic from Osijek, the father of three children who spent 1677 days in the fighting sector, retired as an active military person and he will have some problems as well as the other 14.545 retired under this special law because they are not retired under the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and will not be able to benefit from all these advantages that this legislative proposal now offers. In particular, I would like to point out one absurdity that will not contribute to the position of the defender or the dignity that the pension of the late Croatian defender is recognised even if the person at the time of death is therefore 40 years old. You know that there are measures to employ young people and social funds that are considered to be up to 40 years old, and you also have measures for young people in agriculture up to 40 years. Therefore, it is not intended to provide a person with a pension at 40 years of age, and I do not think that it should be the goal nor should this provision that far extends the obligations of future budgets, and it is evident in the fact that persons will therefore have the right if at the time of death they are 40 years old with 50 years of use of pension but in full amount. So now this is no longer about the inheritance and the right to the family pension of a Croatian wartime disabled who has been held to death by a family member but also all of those privileged pensions if he has died, and he has had one day of the war road, so he has the status of Croatian defender, his wife second, third or fourth has no relation which, if she is 40 years old, will inherit the family pension so that she can be privileged and not know what kind. So this is a problem for discussion that needs to be seen in the later course of considering legislative proposals. And once again, I want to point out, we will not achieve as a society in this way but rather as a way to enable and secure a job for each other, just an unemployed defender, because defenders are the part of the population that was particularly emotionally sensitive, who could not suffer injustice, who could not see aggression and who joined the war. I am telling you that the health status of the defenders is more affected by the fact that in Croatia it is not good, that in Croatia the poor lives and that the sacrifice they gave simply did not give birth to the goal with which they were moving into the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50484	I thank my esteemed colleague Lackovic for this debate. We move on to the next debate, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50485	Dear Chairman, I thank you. I welcome once again the representatives of the promoters, and I welcome our defenders who are there on the side of our 100% disabled and listen to this debate today. Once again, I welcome all the defenders who may be listening to us interested, I don't know if there's any more live transmissions but at least online. I especially welcome all my members can be a little personal, members of the Gospic sanity that I spent 1629 days with. I listened to this debate because I had to finish something earlier, and I'm glad that Mr. Secretary stepped up and made it clear that all the partial studies on how they live and how long the defenders live until they're finished, the one that will follow exactly all the defenders because they need to know exactly who the defender is, how much he had when he died, and what he got sick of, we can exactly get the data out. The data currently available on the website of the National Institute of Public Health is only one study but I don't think it's properly set up when making the study that the defenders entered that statistics. Yet some data exist, the current average of a defense attorney's life is 50.9 years and that's a fact. The average life span in Croatia today is 73 years, so defenders live 2 decades shorter. Since '98. By 31.102015, 39 105 defenders died most of the various forms of neoplasm, 38%. So it's tumors. But what's terrible is that from 1991 to today, suicide has been committed by 2,734 Croatian defenders and it's hard to list what could and did not happen during these 20 years after the war. When we talk about the defense population, family members, we know that this is the most vulnerable group that lives the shortest and dies too soon. Today, when we know how much the average resident of our country lives, we need to ask ourselves what we missed. And I think we missed a lot. We've dealt with legislation, we've had some laws about defenders before, but we haven't done enough to help these people. We didn't prepare our people when they went to the Homeland War, people went with their hearts without any psychological preparation, without thinking about what would bring them this war personally except what they wanted to fight for their country. But we didn't prepare or know what to do with those people when the war was over. Early retirement was never a solution, it was a social solution for the state, but to those young boys, I took them to tens and confronted them every day explaining that it was not a solution, it did them no good. One part of them that stayed in the army eventually turned out to be unspective and were fired so the question was what was the solution for these people. But the state was supposed to find a solution to someone other than that retirement thing. And I think maybe it's one of the very important parts of this law that we're giving them back as much as possible in all the armies of the world and that's another career, that's what we had to do a long time ago. That he keeps part of his pension and that we return it to the world of work because they want to work. They don't want to take a pension, they were just forced to take it because for them there were no more seats in the army because we were rapidly reducing the number of military members. So there's never anything worse when you end the war and you lose your pride or someone takes it away from you. And that's what happens to defenders today, and that's why this law is important. I'm saddened by anyone who questions today and compares the defence pension of 2 and a half thousand kuna to the pension of a worker after a lifetime of work. That worker has far too little retirement. But we won't solve it by taking away the defense attorney. The issue of the defense population, their pensions, is one special category. Let's not put people in our country, let's not stand up to the social opportunities in our country, because these defenders live in this country too, they know very well how hard we can actually do anything with pensions that are very small. So, what we need to follow is certainly the social aspect and health of Croatian defenders and members of their families, their spiritual health, the health of their families, how to organise palitative care, so their end of life for those seriously ill and members of their families, and therefore the proposal that a National Strategy for the Health of Croatian defenders and members of their families will be developed is crucial. So, the envisaged adoption is something which is a key document and protection and improvement of the health of Croatian defenders and members of their families is an area that requires a quality and urgent institutional approach. I'm glad we started with screening and systematic examinations, that's something that we're definitely going to do with one part of the defender to prevent the mortality of the outcome, so in time we're going to detect their diseases and prevent the fatal outcome especially of cardiovascular diseases, meaning heart disease, strokes, and malignancies. So when we talk about the defense population and the members of their families, we know that this is the most vulnerable group that lives as soon as possible and dies too soon. This is indicated by numerous epidemiological indicators and mortality and morbidity as well as the results of domestic and international research dealing with this area. But in Croatia, examples of good practice and targeted health care towards this population are really well done in some parts of Croatia, although there is still a comprehensive systemic approach to solving these problems. So, research shows for those who wonder whether it is necessary to move time for them to regain the right to military disability, thus showing that exposure to severe, extreme trauma such as combat exposure or severe physical abuse can have negative consequences in the long term such as health and mental problems and 50 years after the application of trauma. As direct participants in the war, participants in the Homeland War were exposed to life-threatening situations. And artillery-mining attacks, abandoned sniper fires, different weather and hygiene adverse conditions, inappropriate conditions, extremely high and low temperatures, months of war stress. The Assembly Committee for Health and in 2004, suggested that as a special category, Croatian defenders should be led in the health system, special epidemiological studies should be carried out to monitor the health status of defenders, such as special school children, infants, elderly people. It has not been brought to this day, as we have heard. And that is why I welcome, Mr Jovanovic has already told me this, I welcome this initiative and very soon we will organise a joint thematic session, on the topic of the health status of the defence population and recommend, in fact, by the Committee on Health and Social Care and the Committee on Veterans, what would be necessary to bring the national strategy as soon as possible. Something about data that's relevant to suicide. So again in 2015, Mr. Psychologist, Mr. Komar and Elvira Koić published their own research into the suicide of Croatian defenders in Zagreb and Croatia. In which they analyzed the data from the Croatian defenders' register, the Croatian Ministry of Defence for those who asked if any research was done. And already there were known data on double suicide rates among Croatian defenders in... the population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the rate of monitoring for the improvement and mortality of Croatian defenders, as a particularly health-threatening group, should have been a common task of public health and follow-up, this has not been done so far. Has the community made it possible for Croatian defenders to have conditions in which, as winners after returning from the battlefield, they could achieve the expected maximum of their working and intellectual abilities? No, I don't. Did she try to make up for at least a part of what the war brought back to them? No, I don't. The published results of the study by Mr. Komar suggest that war trauma was followed by stress as a result of society's relationship with Croatian defenders has accelerated the development of psychosomatic diseases and conditions such as cancers, which are actually the most common causes of Croatian, mortal Croatian defenders. So from 1991 to the end of 2014 suicide was committed by 2734 Croatian defenders. Most in Zagreb. Where 55% of the defence population of all Croatia actually lives. In Zagreb, 320 people committed suicide, which means 13% of the total number. These figures are definitely lower than real because some suicides may not be as official and certified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50486	I thank my colleague Ines Strenja-Linić for this debate. We're going into the next debate. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50487	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear ministers, guests, colleagues and colleagues. Here's after we've been on behalf of the MPs' club and after a full day's debate, I think we've already come to some conclusions after the first reading. Of course there will be another reading when we can make amendments. I believe the minister heard those questions we asked. Among other things, which is why the defensive status was obtained by persons who were in the army in '96. A year. And now I'd like to mention a few more things from the law itself. The very law for the first time introduces the institution of a volunteer of the Homeland War. I think that's a good thing, with a volunteer only having access to the defense of his country before 15.1.1992. Also, what's good is it's good to reduce retirement pensions. So to those people who exercise their right to retirement, that since they don't have a full-time job, that they don't have that kind of penalization, like other employees, it's important because, at the time of the Homeland War, really many young people haven't had a chance to work, they haven't had a chance to study, many have lost years at the study, one or two, and they might eventually miss it, that they won't be able to achieve a full-time internship, and then we don't punish them too much, this penalization, so it's not so strict. What appears in the law, however, is the policy of hiring Croatian defenders. And that's where we come back into the space of theory and practice, where in fact this legislation so far has offered solutions, at least on paper, but... Croatian defenders couldn't hire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They couldn't have. Now we hear that 82,000 Croatian defenders are unemployed, which means that out of the total number of unemployed, they make 40%. Which turns out that Croatian defenders are predetermined for unemployment and have the right to be employed, to have the advantage of employment, when they have the same conditions as other candidates. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say something from my own experience. In order to get a job, after completing my studies, I had to write one 16, 17 applications, I wrote a lot of applications, and in each of these applications I wrote that I was a Croatian defender and I called on myself to have an advantage in employment in the event of equal conditions. No one respected that legal article. When they no longer knew what to do and where to go, the employers simply canceled the competition. So they were canceling the contest, they didn't receive anyone, but neither did I, then go on, the method of exhaustion, until somewhere else, the other man decided to go or take him somewhere else, so these laws were, in fact, not being implemented. And the question is really now, given that this rule is already before and is now being better defined again, the penalties for the employment of defenders are being tightened and it is indeed a question of whether there will be a larger outflow of Croatian defenders from the Employment Exchange. Also, when you read those legal articles about the housing of the defenders, it looks great, you would say, well, all Croatian defenders will be taken care of, but this residential care, therefore, has been spoken of for 15, 20 years and again when you look, when Croatian defenders have received an apartment it is very little. I personally don't know anyone. I saw on TV that several keys were shared in some buildings, but I really think that even a large number of people with disabilities have not yet been taken care of, let alone in order to be taken care of by Croatian defenders, their families. It is especially mentioned there in the law as much as anyone has to have squares depending on the number of family members, etc. In practice, however, there is no such thing. And there is a very important role of the Ministry of Defence as well as of all other institutions of the Republic of Croatia that not only laws are passed, and we are masters in Croatia. As one MP said, the law on law enforcement must be passed, it practically turns out that way. It means that we pass the law and that after that, that law remains a dead letter on paper. As I mentioned the same case we have with these famous shares, people get shares, those on paper worth 15, 20, 5,000 kunas no matter how much, and you can sell them for zero kunas and the state says here we've respected the law, we've given the defenders some kind of compensation, and he didn't actually get but not exactly any of what he participated in the war or lost health as Mr. Misko Balog. We also have this problem as mentioned by the representative Strenja-Linić, the pensioners who did not. So we have people who could work, who have the ability to work both partially and fully, but who today simply don't want to return to the labour market for the simple reason that his pension is twice as much as he could get paid in his profession. So someone has a pension of $6,000, so now what's they gonna leave their pension to do for $3,000? And so it's not good, and it's partly not good because defenders don't have enough education to get into the labour market. Did I not have time to study it, or was the Ministry of Defence involved in the requalification of Croatian defenders? Is it costing, is it actively involved? That's what I'd like to hear or be instructed by someone from the ministry to see if anything concrete has been done. That would therefore be in the shortest lines of any reference to this Proposal for a Law on Croatian Defence. I hope that other MPs will also give their view that in the second reading they will give their amendments, that we will get a quality law that will not be too broad-minded, that will really protect those groups of citizens to whom it is intended and on the other hand that after this law there will be no tails left, that we will not again look at some unloved scene to protest, that someone is raising revolutions, even worse to threaten the Government or I don't know who, that a fair, optimal, sustainable solution will be found, and that we will finally close this issue, to turn to the future, because at the end of all Croatian defenders have fought first to ensure a better future for all Croatian citizens equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50488	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for this debate. We have two replicas. The first replica of a respected colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50489	Thank you, Vice President. I'll just say briefly, despite all the shortcomings and perhaps the shortcomings that my colleague Bunjac sees, we should somehow and sum up sumumum, given that this is already a late hour and should objectively say that such a systematic law that detects all the weak points so far, we haven't had, despite what you see as deficiencies. But more importantly, that the weak points have been detected, that long-term problems have been detected is that for the first time ever these problems have been approached comprehensively, that several ministries co-operate with other ministries, that there is what we always complain about, and the opposition that there is no synergy, that there is no symbiosis, that there is no analysis, and now there is everything. And in every sense, for the praise and initiative of the Minister of the Bears and the initiative of all those who participated in this and those who gave the greatest pain to write this indeed is an extensive law, and we see how many articles there are. And if there's any loose ends, then there's going to be another reading and of course it's going to edit. But what I said, summa summarum when we read these articles with explanations then we see that this law so far is the biggest shift in this area and it is an indisputable fact and it should be said clearly and aloud. This law doesn't discredit anyone, he doesn't discriminate anyone, he's moving forward in the sense that he's trying to help the needy, the defenders and those who haven't had their rights regulated so far and never goes backwards, he's just going ahead, and that's responsible power to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50490	I thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50491	Thank you very much, dear colleague of Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic, for your comment. You see in this law a certain shift and it is undeniable. The very proposal of the law is and with those reasoned there are some 300-pages and more pages and as they would say already its scope shows that it has been seriously handled. But you must be aware of one fact, and this is that any law, any rights that we give to the Republic of Croatia must be sustainable in relation to the budget. So if these rights, we can now promise whatever you want to anyone, but if it's not sustainable from the budget, then in the future we'll have another dissatisfaction, then we'll have social conflicts again. And I wish to you, personally and to all HDZ representatives, that when this law is passed, that there will never be any more threats to the protests, that there will never be a story of a), b, c) and d) options, that there will never be another government meeting that should be discussed in particular about any demands of the defenders, etc. I want you to really live this law in such a way that after that about Croatian defenders and their participation in the general political and social life of Croatia are only positive. However, knowing the situation, I fear it may not be a month or two, and we will again hear stories about how Croatian defenders have been neglected and how they did not get this or that. So let's wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50492	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. We have another replica after this debate. Dear colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50493	Well, Your Honor, Mr. Bunjac, you've got me all wrong. So I'm talking about defenders who will finally have the opportunity to go back into the world of work and do it, because they want it and they need it for a better financial situation in their family, but also for their mental state, to feel useful. Thousands of them felt bad after the Homeland War ended and after certain years as the number of members of the Croatian Army was reduced when they were getting rid of each other slowly, the reduction of the number one great one was retired. And those pensions are not such that they would now give up and remain retired. And I'm glad, so you need to read this Article 29 that exactly says that, this article provides for the possibility of hiring an old-age pension user achieved by the basis of this law by half the time or even one part of them will be able to completely freeze their pension, will not lose. The labour force is missing in Croatia. Part of them really wants to, I know a lot of people who are working in the gray zone right now because I can't make it happen, and this is what we're opening up that possibility with. So the defenders want to work, and now we're opening up that possibility to them and that's good for them. But I also don't like the way their pensions are mentioned because one more time we need to do it here. People ended 71 years after World War II. We're still paying off those pensions. So let's not mention our defenders just from the Homeland War, let's mention you. I don't think so. 15000 is a pension that, by the way, is a living pension, so those who were supposed to be members of the Liberation War, 15000. I don't believe that there were so many children between the ages of 8 and 10 who were all couriers and all spent four years in the People's Liberation War so that now 70 years after that another 15,000 would inherit those pensions. One part is their widows, one part of them who may have definitely been in that system looking for some faults. Mr. Orepic has already spoken of missing, all of it, the one who wants to abuse this law absolutely punishes. But let's not look negatively at the defenders, because they didn't deserve it. This law restores the dignity of our defenders, and it must be a consensus for all of us in this assembly. And that's why this law needs to be supported by all the clubs in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50494	I thank my colleagues Strenja-Linić and the time you adhere to. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50495	Thank you very much, very much, very much. Thank you, very much, very much. Well, of course work is an honor, work is a pleasure, work is a pride, work gives a man a meaning of life and, therefore, deplaced to talk about that someone who retired at 30 or 40 years of age has therefore fulfilled their own life goal. However, you here, which you should look back on. That now, under the new law, those pensioners who want to get a job have the right to retain their pension. And that will allow them to return to the labour market. So, he's gonna work, he's gonna get paid, but he's gonna get a pension. Well, that hasn't happened so far. And for this reason, many did not want to work, but rather when they had to choose to keep their pension rather than work or keep their disability, they stayed at home again or, as you say, worked in a gray zone, etc. However, regardless of all this remains the problem of 82,000 unemployed defenders, there is still a question of competitions which are therefore being played, where in advance, by some political likeness or by some lack of knowledge of who will be employed, and those people who have, therefore, rights or other professional qualifications simply cannot get jobs. And that is why it is very important that I repeat once again the functioning system of these public competitions, the employment system. And the best thing would be for society as a whole, and then Croatian defenders would find their place, they wouldn't have to seek special protection of institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50496	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Zeljko Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50497	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian defence ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. After a day-long debate on the Proposal for a Law on Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families, what is looking forward to is the fact that the political thought of representatives in the Croatian Assembly on Bosnia and Herzegovina, the realities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, could be heard from the debate when the relationship to the protection of the rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council could also be seen. What is not good, and what we also heard today, is that in the context of the debate on the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders aims to oppose the different social categories of Croatian society, which is very ugly, and that it still leaves itself concerned that a part of the fellow MPs do not understand the importance of this issue in the right way. When it comes to members of the HVO, this relationship we could hear today, we should first of all thank the employees of the Croatian Defence Ministry who have found a way to discuss with representatives of HVO associations all the issues in question and come to realistic conclusions on the possibilities of spectrum of protection of the rights of Croatian defenders, members of HVO who respect the socio-economic realities of the Republic of Croatia. What is being objected by members of the HVO and which, unfortunately, does not stand is the fact that budgetary opportunities should be created in order to apply certain provisions of this law as of 1 January 2019. I believe that this provision on the application of the law as of 1 January 2019 was taken into account also because of the socio-economic reality in the Republic of Croatia and the budgetary possibilities of the Republic of Croatia. What is important to emphasise when members of the HVO are concerned that the rights of members of the HVO have therefore been protected, that new opportunities have been opened in line with the realities without legal interference when it comes to the status of Croatian defenders. What is important is also highlighted and what is well noted by colleague Linic would be important after the second reading to adopt this law with the maximum consensus, the maximum possible consensus in the Croatian Parliament because it is a significant message due to a series of real moments in some other powers in Croatian society which I believe the largest number of colleagues will understand. When it comes to members of the HVO and the possibility of this law, the motion also takes account of the circumstances that are lower in BiH than in the Republic of Croatia as defined in Article 129 and Article 142 when it comes to the possibility of secondary legal assistance to members of the HVO, therefore a legal service which is unfortunately needed by a large number of members of the HVO in BiH against which BiH trials are conducted with double standards in relation to members of other troops in BiH who participated in the war in BiH. When a contract was signed between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on co-operation in the field of war victims' rights in BiH in 2006 then a detail took place that will need to be taken care of when new Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Co-operation Treaty is signed, so the powers of the BiH war victim, between the Republic of BiH and BiH, and this is the fact that this contract was the subject of both discussions and decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. In fact, although members of the BiH presidency agreed at the end of 2005 to a proposed contract between the Republic of BiH, the Bosniaks' Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly therefore launched proceedings before the BiH Constitutional Court, noting that this proposed contract was destructive in the interest of the Bosniak people in BiH. So because of the reality of relations primarily with the Bosniak policies towards the Croats in BiH, according to the Republic of Croatia, one part of the provisions in this law have been warned in a certain way and the dangers that are very important, which is the subject of a quality approach analysis, so these risks in the realisation of the protection of the rights of members of the HVO. I believe when there are different circumstances, so also in Croatian society, so when the socio-economic opportunities of Croatian society are different, when changes in the international circumstances that the spectrum of protection, so the rights of members of the HVO will be in one part, respecting the reality of Croatian society will certainly be defined and realised in a more appropriate way. But as a BiH Croat, I appreciate all that has been done so far, I believe that this is one very valuable foundation in relation to other issues when the Croatian people in BiH are subject to processing within individual laws. The fact that it is also pointed out today is important to take care of the equality of Croatian citizens. So I think that this very example of a positive attitude towards members of the HVO is exactly what this commitment to the equality of Croatian citizens is about. Namely, only 9 Croats and 1 Croatian aide work at the Federal Defence Ministry in Sarajevo, with 56 Bosniaks. So this testifies how disabled Croats are in terms of protecting their rights. In BiH, the engagement of the Republic of Croatia in a certain way compensates for all shortcomings in our position in BiH. Finally, I thank the Croatian Defence Ministry staff for taking a realistic and responsible look at the position of HVO members and giving them responsible attention under the provisions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50498	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Raguž for this debate. We have two replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50499	Thank you very much. So it is generally known that the Croats from BiH were numerous in the very beginnings involved in Croatian troops before the very recognition of the Republic of Croatia, and there is no debate about it. The fact is that the HVO played a major role along with the HV in fighting in BiH, mainly in the part of the signing of the Izetbegovic-Tudjman agreement in the villa Dalmatia in '94. years in Split. However, what was the Croatian policy towards your regions? She wasn't a state girl. We have a six-year-old in The Hague today, only a year ago the justice minister first visited, any of the statesmen left alone these generals. They didn't care. Bad policy, above all, was not a state-run from Croatia towards people in BiH, and also your representatives in BiH did not protect the interests of both members of that people and members of the HVO. And the results are evident that more and more people from these parts are leaving and evicting what is in Croatia, and unfortunately mainly in third countries. There is no difference between the Croatian defenders, I am saying this from personal experience because I was in BiH for a year in the Homeland War, but politics are bad. Triba also admits you from BiH that the Croats are not well enough, and in particular it was not a state policy from Croatia. It was politics, so I don't know how, trying to buy small interests. There the tiba people subsidize to stay alive and then the members of the HVO who gave their lives will realize their ideals. And not to have an empty Herzegovina and Bosnia, that we have an unprotected border on the Republic of Croatia which is a national threat and Croatian territory and therefore the bad policies of Croatia towards the people of BiH are evident and the results are visible. That is why we must fight to keep this people alive in BiH, and Croatia to assist in accordance with the Constitution, to help our Croats in BiH what is the obligation of the Croatian state. And that has never been done before, so loud and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50500	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50501	My colleague Bulj, not a double of your good intentions, would only say that it is complex to act politically in BiH and complex and complex and help Croatians in BiH. What's important is that there's progress that I've been talking about, and we're not going back to the earlier periods when certain representatives of political parties have been irresponsible to the Croats in BiH and I think it's time for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50502	I would like to thank my colleague Ragujo for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50503	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Raguž, I was very impressed by this individual debate of yours, especially when you said in the first sentence that a political thought has progressed among the political parties in the Republic of Croatia regarding the situation of Croats in BiH and only the BiH issue. And this should be discussed at least once a month in this House and open certain topics related to the position of Croats in BiH as a constituent people, especially in complex political relations that you have now said in the replica of counterpart Bulju. I would not have agreed if there had been no help before, if BiH had not been thought of in a different way. You praised the Croatian Defence Ministry's proposals that it has now shown one greater sensitivity regarding respect for the protection of acquired rights, but also for extending certain rights of HVO members. The situation or situation of Croats in BiH is extremely important for the position of the Republic of Croatia. The stability of the Republic of Croatia depends on the situation of Croats in BiH, the survival of Croats in BiH is strengthening the stability of the Republic of Croatia. The sooner we understand this, I like to say that the issue of all issues for any politician in the Republic of Croatia as regards the issue of the position of Croats in BiH, I am particularly pleased that you have presented it and said it in your opening statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50504	I thank my colleague Babic for this replica. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Vlaho Orepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50505	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to expose it to some two wholes, I'm going to call it a technical review and one essential reference to the essence of this law that is extremely significant and important, and which we at the Most Club really have access to with great responsibility and awareness and outside of any populism, we want to contribute to making this law one whole that will be acceptable to all of us here in the Croatian Parliament. So here I am now going to take this first piece of technical flight, maybe I'll be dry and monoton, but it's going to take a very short while, but just to get into the record and I think they're specific things so, and we're going to deliver it in writing. So exactly in Article 4, we propose to delete the words to be recognised by the status of HRVI from the Homeland War of the First Group with 100% damage to the organisms, and to give all defenders with a problem that faces the above-mentioned group of defenders the same rights and opportunities. In Article 6, we propose to abolish the time limit for point e as we seek the same time limit for point f, i.e. December 31st 1997 as well as points c and d. Article 30. We propose that the new paragraph 5 is added in Article 30, which reads as follows: ‘The law on the reduction of pensions of certain pensions, i.e. those made under specific pension insurance rules, will not apply to persons referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article starting from 1.7.2018. In Article 46, we propose that the Constitutional Court's decision, which we state, will give you in writing, shows that the pension reduction is linked to the person and her needs, not the family pensioner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We propose Article 69. In point (a) of Article 69(1), the word ‘owned’ is replaced by the words ‘use’. In paragraph 5, the word “indemnity-free” is replaced by the words “to be used” and at the end of the article a new item is added, which reads: “When the new car is taken over from the Homeland War with damage to the organism of 100%, it is obliged to hand over to the current ministry which will be awarded to the needy according to the public competition.” means Article 101 and 102 to define an item on HRVI from the Homeland War without income. And under b) behind the point "K" is added a new point "I" which reads: "Children of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders." With this I exhausted this part, but you will also get in writing, so here it is. As far as access to this law is concerned, I would like to stress that I speak as a Croatian defender from day one to day. I speak as someone who does not exercise any right and speak as someone who is deeply aware that Croatia is a deserted and unprotected country. To talk about any law on anything, not to talk about the context in which it is at the moment and the state in which it is located both the people and the state think it is irresponsible and... I will immediately conclude that I welcome the intention to frame the law into one whole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia really needs to take care of the defenders and the victims of the Homeland War, it is certainly when I tell the defenders, I talk about the defenders, whether they are from HVA or HVO, etc. To me, he's a defense attorney, a defense attorney. But we must not allow people, unfounded, to achieve the baseless status of defenders and to also abuse the status of defenders. We simply must by law prevent the unfounded acquisition of status and abuse of that status. We must not at any time allow ourselves to be viewed as a privileged caste by defenders, and this will not happen if we are realistic, if we are objective and if we are out of our ranks all the false ones there are and who abuse both this country and this people, which we clearly drive out of our ranks. And I really mean by respecting the circumstances in which the state is located, the people are not allowed to do a single kuna, I repeat not a single kuna to assign to the Republic of Croatia, nor our children, our future. We have to move within what we have. We should schedule if we should even more justly schedule what is already being deployed according to the needs. In this spirit I really stress what is very important to install in this law if someone has damaged or damaged the Republic of Croatia, be careful from the moment on which he obtained the status of defender until now or until now when in any way damage to the Republic of Croatia he needs to be deprived of the status of defender and all the rights that come out of him not only with a look at three years, not just on some kind of monetary income, but simply everything. That's what I'm saying, and with these words I'm going to conclude. I think the defense attorney's status is right to honor, first of all, not the right to some kind of right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50506	I thank my colleague Orepic for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50507	You have presented the changes you have said, the changes that should be and which articles should be changed. All that you have read is in essence officially delivered by the service and the minister, so we sincerely hope that until the second reading what might be accepted will not be accepted in the form of amendments, just to point out, but in the form of proposals that you can take, which the ministry can take into consideration. Yes, I would agree that the defense register is honorable and that the triba be honorable people on it who defended their homeland. However, we can talk about other registers. Let's say war profit registers, deserter registers if there are, and probably there are, and it is crucial that war profiteers who created their empires in the circumstances of Croatia's creation. This morning we noted that the triba register of aggressors. And those who raped are still walking through Vukovar. That's what people who, so they were victims, and now they just have to look at their villains, their executioners. Because it is amazing what counterpart Linic said that Stanimirovic will one day, the mayor of Vukovar, in the war, sit in this House. So there are a lot of these things that this society needs to do for the sake of justice towards the Homeland War, according to the foundations of the state. However, mockery with the Homeland War as is done by fellow Pupovac and this will not be answered by Prime Minister Plenkovic bringing the entire Homeland War beyond true borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50508	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. The answer to my colleague, Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50509	Comrade Bulj, it is true that we could make an infinite list of some kind, etc. We need to make clear the fact that we are truly a poor and disfellowshipped society. That's a fact. We need to know that workers aren't getting paid today. We should be aware of that. We need to know that society is unfair and that people go from the Republic of Croatia not because it is an economic crisis. I believe we're honest company, so we can stay and fight. People go because they don't trust the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. And we have to change that. And I think the Defense Act, that defenders are the same as in '91. They went to defend this country to no one, and they didn't ask or ask for anything, that this is the moment that this point, in which we can change the story if we're mature enough and smart enough, and that we're uniquely starting to create some new values in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50510	I thank my colleague Orepic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, an individual, respected colleague, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50511	Thank you very much. So here I am, at the very beginning, going to say that I support access to work and this law and that I will support it as such, and of course I will vote for it, because it has been corrected by many unjust ones, and so many dignity has been returned, or, rather, it will be returned. But that doesn't mean I don't want him to be any better. I'm not going to make it conditional on my vote or my date, or the appearance of any article, by formulating some article, as I like it, but I'm going to try and suggest that it be better and more quality from at least my angle. And most people will decide whether I was right or wrong. Therefore, I would start from Art. 1. You know that he brought a certain controversy, there were some debates, stronger, less intense, etc. But I read somewhere where Minister Medved said that the foothold for that article, Art. 1, was found in the Homeland War declaration. So here's why I'm not spreading that question, I'm not explaining it, but the time has passed and I'm just going to say that here I am calling both the minister and his associates, to Art. 1. In accordance with the Homeland War Declaration. It says so clearly, and such a declaration is what it is, but such a declaration is in force. As regards Art. 3, 4. 5. Yes, after so many and so many years, here, finally, dignity will be given to volunteers of national protection, injustice will be corrected, that is what I support, personally and with many colleagues from the Defense Association, I have torn up a lot of shoes, so that among other things we can fight for this status. They blocked him, I'll say bureaucrats and obstructed from various levels. A lot of this took part during that time and DORH's interpretations about when status is recognised. So they came up with this to be July 30th, i.e. the 1.8th, because at that time, an order was given on a higher level of organisational level, and it is well known that people's protection was founded, i.e. President Tudjman set up an interparty council just for national protection, for defence, 15.3. It is important to know that they had no status, at least those who had a war schedule, had no status, had no status, had also had some false interpretations, only because some bureaucrats didn't know or wanted to know, and then they were persistent in that effort, so they determined that the 24.12. deadline was when the klapra was put on and when it was no longer possible to recognise that status. However, it is clear that President Tudjman has made the decision on the establishment of home affairs, which he has made on 24.12., in fact, clearly states that it is in effect 30.1. And then the legislator added nicely, that it takes 150 days to recognise the status. We all need 100 but for people's protection 150. And you could have planted yourself on your head but you're 144 hours short or 6 days short to get that status. And no one could, and no one was able to make it happen. And it is known very well that these people's protections were actually volunteers, were defenders, who bought weapons with their own money, ammunition, and with clothes and food from home they volunteered, without mobilizing calls, without material benefits, without wages, without jobs to defend their homeland. Here, I say we were dumb, from the Ministry of Defence, to the Ministry of Labour, to the inspection, to the Parliament, the only one who succeeded, I congratulate him on it, not there, but I already told him, and on the board is the minister who, Minister Bear, who nevertheless respected it and had the strength, courage, and I will say the honesty to put that part and that segment into this law. I'd like to say something about the article from 101 to 103, so that's an advantage in employment. Interestingly, by 2004 it was all about employment. So the Croatian defender had priority in employment and point. In 2004, the new law, i.e. the amendments introduced, introduced that those who have to call a public tender or a public advert. But what happened then, what happened then? Just when you take it, we said 82 thousand unemployed Croatian defenders. We said the average is 51 years old. We said it was mostly a middle or lower professional preparation that makes it difficult for you to get a job. And you see right where they can get a job we've made a blockade, or we said they don't have to call the competition. They don't even have to sign an ad. And that's where the short date started. The ministry, I wrote to all addresses possible, the only one who accepted and answered me through the parliamentary question was Minister Bear. I have to say, it's a fact, it's life, it's truth. And what he said, what he promised I'll say he tried to do. It's not enough because instead of the Ministry of Labour going through the change and everyone has to call that public ad for employment, I'm not talking about private, I'm talking about those companies that are, the legal entities that own the state, the city, the county, etc. It wasn't going through that segment, but it tried to solve it in an easier way through the Ministry of Defense, which is to add both the formulation and the internal advert. Right? Now look at it this way. You must know, I can give you materials from inspections that have established the facts in these and such companies where they don't even question an internal ad but simply have a fund of people who write them applications, they create this fund and then they get out of that fund when they need it. That means I bring in the hand you need, and I hired him. So I suggest that we might add more or otherwise, then we can work it out, but I think that we should also work with the Ministry of Labour to make sure that there is a requirement for regulation and advertising and competition and for those legal persons. And what I would say at the end of Article 214, I also said on the board, so far, it has been the write-off of outstanding claims to loan users. So 3655 loans, that's 320 million, paid off 67, were written off on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance. Now it was a good intention, I agree, it was a good intention to write off everything there is. And she arrived, she missed it somewhere in 1759 credits, but that's 300, with interest tightened and regular, that's 313 million we need to write off with one move of feathers. I'm not about to raise my hand in Parliament for 300 and so many thousand kunas without knowing who, what, how and why. And I'm not in the mood for that to go unexplained. So I suggest you take it back to the Ministry of Finance, to the Department of Defense, as they have written off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50512	I would like to thank my colleague Ronka for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Franco Vidovic. He's gone, thank you. Next, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50513	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the basic reason the defenders went to war was to one day have a free and sovereign state. Unfortunately, our country today is not sovereign, we have given up our sovereignty. The reason the defenders went to war, i.e. One of these was to stop communism and have democracy, but democracy today works in a way that comes from Brussels and then, after a quick process, without any debate, they actually turn into laws. So we have a mass of laws that aren't passed because we think they're in the interest of citizens, but because it was a directive from Brussels. So we have one non-democratic way or the law-making procedure. From Brussels we can say that the directives of the type must be introduced tax on real estate, it must be this, what and, of course, the defenders when they watch what is happening are wondering if this is the one Croatia they fought for, is that the country they believed it would be. So a country that is free, a country that is sovereign, a country where we have, how can I say, where we Croats are on our own and live in prosperity. Unfortunately, there are, of course, people in HDZ who think Croatia is a great country, that everything works great and they say it every day on television but there is also another part of the citizens who thinks and defends it means that it is not all the way it should be. And when you look at all the democratic indicators, so let's say the number of newborns, the number of students, the number of employees, etc., all of them. positive economic indicators or demographic indicators are falling and all negative indicators, so the number of blocked, public debt, private debt, etc. They're growing. And we today unfortunately can find that the situation in our country is worse than it was before the '90s. That is, by leaving communism instead of prosperity, our citizens have experienced humiliation. Soldiers who went to war when they came home, lost their jobs and women waiting for their husbands to return from the war, also lost their jobs and then HDZ decided to cover up the unemployment problem with mass retirement simply to take care of all those unemployed. And that's how the problem of the unemployed is covered up. However, no one has asked what will happen to the children of these defenders or those people who have lost their jobs because at the moment they grow up, the companies where their parents have worked, will no longer exist and that is what happened, so today we have an exodus of young people because, of course, citizens have been thinking as they say, let's say that HDZ has done the Croatian bear people a favor. So he made it possible for people not to retire to retire and thus covered up the problem of their unemployment and transferred it to their children of course. And today some defenders, for example, can from Slavonia, with grief in their hearts watch what his Slavonia suffered, what has Osijek suffered, etc., and why? Because more unfortunately, people have left our country because of political elite policies, meaning both HDZ and SDP rather than Serbs. Unfortunately. Look at the number of completed properties, in the last 10 years, so in 2007-2017, you'll see that it's more than 40,000. So now you should, here, put one side to the number of property damaged in the war, put on the other side the number of real estate completed and look at the actual war damage that has been done to us by neighbouring Serbia and the war-related, or economic damage done to us by the successive HDZ and SDP governments. And finally, the logical consequence of the disappointment, of what they fought for and what they got is that the defenders raise their hands on themselves and that's why over 3,000 defenders committed suicide. This law, I'm glad that he's coming, I'm glad that the defenders are being helped, but some questions are being asked which, unfortunately, I don't know what reason, no one wants to run, which is a question of false defenders. So we all know that there were no half a million defenders in Croatia because if there were half a million defenders, then we wouldn't be at war with a far more powerful enemy already, because we would have a lot more soldiers than the enemy and one such blogger or columnist wrote that Napoleon had reached Moscow with half a million soldiers. It means that there really were half a million defenders, we not to defend Croatia without cramping on our faces, we could go without saying, and to Moscow because Napoleon told the Croatians the same thing that they were excellent soldiers, which means that or which excludes the possibility that Croats are bad soldiers and that is why we didn't do faster military operations and indicates that they actually have a large number of false defenders. And now what's going on? We are in a situation where real defenders have existential problems and concerns and false defenders have 8,000 kuna disability pensions and are not disabled. Unfortunately, this law does not solve it, if the state wanted to solve the problem of false defenders then tomorrow they would find money for real defenders and their pensions could be, I would say, twice as big. So I'm not saying that the defenders didn't deserve social protection, on the contrary, I'm in favour of it being even bigger, but it's not possible to inflation the number of these defenders and then give everyone some big rights because of course there would be a budget breakdown. I mean, he's in a breakdown anyway, but it would just bring him down to the end. And unfortunately, Minister Bear, what's he doing? And they decided to remove that defense registry that actually reduces the transparency of the entire system, why? Well, if there weren't any false defenders, then there wouldn't be a need for a register. People would say, look, it was, I don't know, I'm cartooning, 100,000 defenders, there's no need for their names to be public. I'd say okay, but we've got inflation on those fake defenders and that's one of the main reasons for publishing the register. I don't think the HDZ is going to help the defenders because defenders are honest who are looking at what the state has turned into, they're bitter, I think by this law, or that the intention of this law is to buy the HDZ electoral body and actually suggest these people, you see HDZ is with you and actually what? HDZ is a lie, HDZ is with people who lied about being defenders and not. And I'd like to tell all those defenders, i.e. not to the defenders, to the false defenders who have privileges and rights that do not belong to them, that the Bible says that “No liar and no thief will enter the kingdom of heaven”, which means that they are living in lies, misleading both the state and themselves, with the fact that they are not, in fact, condemn themselves in terms of eternity, more than Jesus in John 8,44 says to unfaithful Jews, “You have the devil for father because he is a liar and father of lies and has not been standing in the truth since the beginning.” And every time we as humans lie to ourselves, others and means the state, we are actually repeating a lie, and that is one very ugly thing that I say, leads us to eternal destruction and therefore I appeal to false defenders to give up their status and to ask the state that the money that does not belong to them, that goes away to those who have really fought for this country, and some of their own sovereignty, and some of their own. Now, I'm gonna understand for the defenders, support this law, but I'm appealing to the state to solve the problem of a false defender and to make up for it when this problem is solved, because what's happening right now? Right now, what's happening is that the real defenders are getting their pensions off. They say we'll cut you 10, 20%, etc. Why? It's not because there's no money, it's because there's a bunch of people in these fake defenders who are receiving funds they shouldn't have. If the problem of false defenders was solved, then the state should not collectively cut pensions, or rights, to all defenders. And in fact, this policy of false defenders has led to the rights of real defenders being reduced, reduced, etc. I'm personally against a downsizing of the defense attorney's rights. It means, but it's real. And those who are not real should be deprived of all rights and prosecuted for what the HDZ unfortunately does not want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50514	I thank my colleague Pernar. In your words, I read light nostalgia for the former criminal regime and the former state, but you know why. We have a few replicas. The first reported to the replica, a respected counterpart, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50515	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm going to tell my young colleague Pernar, it is my pleasure that you can express your views here and turn your eyes on it. That's why I'm going to let you have more and you've got a replica on mine, so you can add some more of your thoughts. But what I'd just like to return, if it didn't fall out of this Homeland War, if someone was fighting for some kind of policy, let's say, first we were fighting for the right to live. So let's get out of it, and then politics is both current and first-line policy, and it's done in our position the mistakes that we didn't think we needed, that sometimes a bigger victim is better, than that we're losing something that we think belongs to us. But when you're in a situation where someone goes to wipe out your family, your neighbors, your friends and conquer and submit, then you're actually very groundbreaking. So you're going to fight for survival. I'm not bitter. I'm not personally bitter, because for what we were volunteers then came to troops, we fought. So that's what we fought for. Politics, she's always had her own repercussions, and she's shaped the same interpretation, and I'm sick of hearing someone interpreting that the current policy came from the Homeland War. Not what was in the Homeland War, but this policy absolutely has nothing to do with it. This is already to say one other step for which at that time was not important or was the reason why we were even created by those who were going into that battle and I would not even now mix it and because of that, any law any political option that brought that actually indicates that it was a struggle for life and preservation, not only us, our families but also the people who lived with us will be welcomed here on my part. And this all remains on the soul of those who have made policies after... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50516	I thank my colleague Panenic for his replica. My colleague Pernar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50517	Mr. Panenic, most of the defenders when they went to war must have walked with that thought you carry. So the desire for freedom, for a better life, etc. However, the fact is that defenders did not fight for Milan Bandic's lawyer and Mason Marijan Hanžekovic to massacre them. They didn't fight for it to make electricity, water and gas more expensive. They didn't fight for all state property to be privatized and handed over to foreigners. They didn't fight for their children leaving the country they were creating and the homes they didn't want to leave in the war. But unfortunately, things turned out the other way. And the bed is wondering who's to blame. You know who's to blame. Unfortunately, it is not only the HDZ's fault, because the SDP has also implemented a privatisation policy of borrowing essentially neoliberal policy, economic policy, as well as an identical monetary policy, which has led to a credit breakdown, not only of small people, but also of large entities. I'm sure that when the defenders went to war if they hadn't gone, so to speak, to sacrifice themselves so as to say Ivica Todorovic lives in the castle, I'm sure of it. But in the end, it turned out that the defenders needed Malta not social assistance, and they had nothing to live on, to live on in ruins, and that Ivica Todorovic, who was not at war, lives in a castle and actually destroys the country for which they fought. Unfortunately, our people decided in the elections to support those political options and candidates that they are conducting here to say the butcher's policy towards the Croatian people and the consequences are actually our disappearance from these areas, the loss of sovereignty and, in fact, at the end of it all, one day people will ask why these people fought in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50518	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. We have another replica, dear colleague of Ines Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50519	Dear Mr. Pernar, I'm very bothered that you keep telling false defenders, false defenders, false defenders. And repeating such words all these years and thus we have contributed to one part of the defender, most defenders believe that they are potentially someone who has used their participation in the Homeland War or that part has not faked that documentation of their participation in the Homeland War. I think the biggest mistake was actually made between those 500,000 and I think that 500,000 were in HV that fought, I'm not going to say how far we'd go, but we'd get very far. But I think you should have said right away, what is now defined by this law, which is the participants of the Homeland War. Because being a doctor in Gospić and on Trsat in Rijeka and Pula, it was absolutely different, being in Gospić at the logistics base and not going out on the field, the first line was quite different. And be a cook, as Mr. Culey said today and go to the top of Velebit, with the boys to make ready food is a completely different story from the chef at the museum or in Split. So already that story is a combat and non-combat sector, but within the fighting sector there are huge differences that should have been resolved long ago. But that's why neither you nor we are responsible nor the defense attorneys are always called false defenders. The register was open, so how many of these fake defenders were found based on how we defined them? The problem is that we should have defined them quite differently. But listen, it was on those political options that were in power both of them but they lost their sources. Neither the SDP is so socially oriented anymore, nor the HDZ is so entrepreneurship-oriented, it's all kind of equidistant, some other options talk about the problems that are currently in our society, but it bothers me to tell constantly the false defenders because according to those regulations that they are, the defenders are the ones that are recorded among those half a million. And if there were too many, as defenders, it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50520	I thank my esteemed colleague, Strenja-Linić, on the replica. My colleague Pernar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50521	I would like to say that, someone will say, there is no need to stress the problem of false defenders, but the fact is that false defenders draw large financial resources from this country and that they are precisely the cause of the real defenders being disproved or reduced their rights. My heart hurts most when I see a man in a masked uniform, probably from the Homeland War digging through garbage. That hurts. My heart's pounding. And yet, on the other hand, there are people who, with a false disability, have been in military units that never existed, etc., who have achieved all possible rights and should be asked whether this policy of inflation of the number of defenders or the creation of a large fake defender is, in fact, paralysing, whether it is customeristic, whether it pleases one political party or the structures that enabled them and ultimately, whether that policy should be put to the end. Unfortunately for the election results, we see that a large number of citizens continue to support crime, support corruption from micro to macro levels, meaning at all levels, and the ultimate consequence is the collapse of the state, the collapse of the state, the disappearance of the people living in it. And keep in mind that all the rights that have been acquired without that basis, that is all the cat in the bag, that is, in order to express it, bear service, and ultimately, each of us will be responsible for every kuna he has taken and which did not belong to him without exception and to false defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50522	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. We move on to the next debate, the final word on behalf of the GLAS Club, HSU, the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50523	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Ministry representatives. The further this debate goes, the more proud I am of my form of defenders in HSU for why they constantly comment on their rights with other pensioners because they are part of a single Corps of all pensioners together. And I must admit that there were no such radical demands in our structure and such great cries for the endangered rights of the defender. The only thing I have to say is one question that is trying to solve this law is the question of allowing for work on pensions in several variants because some variants were allowed under the existing law, but in several variants. Look, now that's improved. But I'm asking you, couldn't we have made a bigger step? There's a good number of you sitting in the last term, pardoning the past, when Mr. Mrsic proposed as Minister of Labour and Pension System that you could work without putting your pension on hold. And if someone's in a disability pension, they can work up to four hours with a job contract, it can also be a contract of work, and someone who's in retirement. At that time, we were told, or on this side, that this measure would disrupt labour market relations, that we are direct competition, that pensioners are direct competition to young people and that therefore young people will retire and we have a number of open calls to certain jobs, open job offers that we cannot possibly fill. So I'm wondering why we're limiting it to four hours, why are we restricting early pensioners so they can't do the same and why all the pensioners including the defenders won't be able to work if there's room on the labour market? They pay contributions, Minister Maric said they must pay half of their contributions to pension, half of their contributions to health care. So they're gonna pay themselves a part of the pension, I don't know what we're afraid of. Let's do an analysis and see what we're missing and whether there are any remaining working skills in that pensioner and defender's Corps, and there are those people who can fill those jobs and contribute to our economy, both the defender and the early pensioners. And secondly, I have an observation, so we've been looking again at that pre-government, and we've received financial resources from the EU, or the European Commission has approved us to form a single art center, or a single body of art, and we're sorry, and now we're looking for special constituencies here. We haven't even set up the centers yet. We've only got four centers. The need for skill is one-of-a-kind. Secondly, I'm also a defender and I didn't ask for it, I'd like it best if there was a category in the law, citizens who responded to the mobilization and participated in the defence of the Republic and did not seek any defence rights. I wish I could determine myself but I didn't have the right choice, I was mobilized to respond to mobilization, like most of my Istrians, did my 13 days and got the status of defender. Gentlemen, this is the Deputy Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor's appointment, and it's a law so laid down in the Storm for 13 days, a member of the Defence Fund, and it's all there, I haven't applied anywhere, gentlemen. And I just want to tell you that you could have left the right choice. So I'd beg not to single out the defenders themselves. If there is a unique body of art, let it be for everyone and for the pensioners, for the socialists, for health care and for the defenders. Why are we always looking for something special? The more our citizens will appreciate and love us, not always looking for something. I know the causes and consequences are specific, but if the doctors can't figure out why they're doctors. I'm sorry, it's a little intense, but I think I'm always touching some of the injustices that I think are significant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50524	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. We have a few replicas. The first replica of a esteemed colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50525	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a quick and short one. You have mentioned and asked why to limit this Article 29 to half-time defenders, or all pensioners, as prescribed by the general law. Yes, I agree with you, actually, for the time being, the need for the labour market is so great, but we will certainly have a situation in the future, and that happens from day to day, that for the jobs that are underpaid with us, people go to Germany that records new economic expansion and growth as the 1970s, and there they get three times more for that same job. We won't be left with anyone who works and we'll just have to reach out for this and it'll only come to full application, for now half is maybe enough. But I agree that if we look into the future in two, three years or five years, it's certainly going to be in certain places, and it's going to be cashiers if they're not replaced by some technology in supermarkets and other simpler professions, and I don't want to tell the manuals any more use of this story because these people have some rights and then they'll know how to use them. So as far as this regulation is concerned in Article 29, we absolutely welcome that it is possible without the suspension of property and it goes in that direction, primarily to socialization and everything that the defence population and all the problems it faces. But the economic question is that it will come to the agenda not only for the defenders but for all the pensioners, and it will be very soon for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50526	I thank my colleagues for the replica. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50527	I thank my colleague Curai for understanding this matter. I really believe that in 2014 when we first brought this right for pensioners to work for disabled and old age pensions, that they could work up to a maximum of 4 hours, not to interrupt their pension but to start a working relationship with the labor contract, I think it was enough time to find that this was a measure used by 5 to 6 thousand people a year, that they were not the cause of leaving young people because they were usually in those jobs where specific skills were sought. And why wouldn't a chef mentor a young colleague if he went into retirement, that's still not such a hard job? Why does it have to be 3.5 hours, because of its shape, can be longer or more of a similar profession. And I don't think we need to be afraid because the pensioners won't flood the labour market and they won't take anyone's bread. And the young leave and leave tomorrow because they don't see the perspective, because they don't see the future, because they want to have social security when they retire, and here they don't know how many years the internship will reach by their 50s, 60s or 70s because the lack of employment and the uncertainty of employment is catastrophic and the poor pay, and the second pillar won't allow them to save anything for their pension. So it's about perspective, it's about some hopelessness and I have young people in my house and I hang out with them and I know how they think. They're looking for security and they're looking for a more certain future than they have here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50528	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50529	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Hrelja, I assume you've been reading this law well. You mentioned that we were against that measure during the previous assembly of this House. The fact is that circumstances have changed, in particular, the circumstances on the market and that this measure is one extremely good measure not to suspend pensions or that it is possible to work part-time from full-time. Even better is the measure when hiring the child of the deceased defender where the employer, as far as I know, is only the salary of the pension fund and... However, you mentioned the minister in the previous government, and you shouldn't, she initiated that Law on the Single Body of Art then and he caused a large number of cases, then it was somewhere around 100,000 and you're saying that now a special establishment unit is being created within the Single Body of Art. It is not a set-up but an organisational unit for the items it stands for and in this proposal of law regarding Croatian defenders, precisely because of the large number of cases that were then accumulated by the adoption of the law. Another important thing about this Single Arts Institute is that in 2013, the government took one loan from the World Bank nearly 70m euros, which is huge money that taxpayers will have to pay back. These funds were taken for 5 items, one was for deinstitutionalisation for a single compensation centre and, among other things, for this unique body of art. The unique body of art received 4m euros for the funds unfortunately, the minister at the time did not take advantage of it at all, but in fact created a major confusion and therefore the large number of cases took place. So that it would not happen to the defenders, that is, to avoid being further frustrated, is a special organisational unit, as I understand it, not a structural one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50530	I would like to thank my colleague Babic for his replica. And an answer from my colleague Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50531	Well, my colleague Babic, I am pleased to speak the same language and in fact my intention is not to respect you anything because I know the positional and opposition games in this House and I am clear that the opposition always has an obligation to warn about the possible adverse consequences that, in this case, the employment of people with disabilities and old age pensions did not have and we were right to bring such a measure and should be extended further. I'm not Mrsic's lawyer here, and I don't want to discuss it. I know that the implementation of the single body of art and centre setting came relatively late and that the project was very late and that there was obstruction in the mandate of the government in all sectors, so both in the social and in the pension and health care and in the Ministry of Defence, so that the project was very difficult or never gone. And there's a really demanding number of objects to be solved. However, look, I don't know but you'll have to sit with me for coffee, for me are identical words both organic and organisational. And the organisational and structural unit, so I don't see much difference between what it says and what I said. I think that means the same thing. There may be nuances you'll probably teach me about I'll be ready, but you'll pay for the coffee. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50532	Thank you, colleagues. On behalf of my colleague Babic, I thank you for calling for coffee. Next up for the replica came an esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50533	The Honorable Chairman, I am withdrawing the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50534	I thank my colleague Pernar. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50535	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you were talking about this, about the unique body of art and this construction unit that has been described in this House many times as impossible for the rights of Croatian defenders, given that eventually the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have established trial skills by experts of all kinds. Who clearly wrote that only 6% can be achieved in one case, in another 7.2%. Most of all, one expert estimated that 26% of the cases could be processed and the rest could not. It's the expertise they've done in a year. And yet, even though it was presented and made, it was forced to go all the way into one unique body of art that absolutely does not correspond to the expert opinion of those who are doing this very work of art. And what you said to the citizens who responded to the mobilization call. After President Tudjman's call that all citizens who are militaryly capable of joining the Homeland defense, the volunteers came, when there were not enough volunteers, then mobilization calls were sent. And don't drag me by my tongue to talk about how many are directed to Istria. But it doesn't matter. All what is written in the law clearly defines the Croatian defender, from volunteer to defender. The defender is every one who participated in the Homeland War whether by a mobilization call or by his own free will. But volunteers have special status and special evaluation. I think it's inappropriate now... citizens who responded to the mobilization call. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's really inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50536	I thank my colleague Djakic for his replica. Answer, Comrade Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50537	The problem of the unique body of art and the problems of the termological nature, the criteria, we will all have opportunities tomorrow morning to discuss the new law, the draft law on, amendments and additions to the Professional Rehabilitation Act, which consists of a single body, i.e. centres for art and professional rehabilitation, and we will be able to explain this in particular. As for the citizens who responded to the mobilization and served their duty with honor to the Homeland, I was proud of this saying and I was talking about myself, I wasn't talking about volunteers, I was talking about an ordinary citizen who worked as a union official visiting his fellow union members in Brinja and the Lyca Corps, or Sinac, visiting them, carrying cigarettes, skeletons, etc., that's what I'm talking about. And when the "Storm" action was, I was mobilized, raised, etc. I'm not asking for anything, not even the status of Croatian defenders. Do you understand? I didn't ask, I got it. ... And I'm just asking that, if you think that's right, it should be that distinction to leave us the choice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I love this country maybe more than you. And I think that, and I think that this country looked wonderful no matter what the war environment was from the '90s to '95. when we were solid, when we were one, when we were breathing one thing and then we started pulling each and every one for their own end who would pull out fatter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50538	I would like to thank my colleague Hrelja for his reply. We move on to the next final word. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50539	I would like to thank Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Defence. Today I would have said to us one of the most important laws that we will have the opportunity to adopt in this term. And I think I share my opinion, at least that's how I understood from the debates that could be heard today, most of the MPs in this House that this law was actually done in a very serious, comprehensive and systematic way and that it regulates, therefore, the issue of Croatian defenders and much broader than the rights themselves, and also the need. Because the fact that in the definition, therefore, in Article 1 of this Law itself clearly defines the character of the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia and clearly calls the aggressors in this definition in fact reaffirms those original provisions of the BiH Constitution which say that the Republic of Croatia is founded on victory in a fair, legitimate, defensive and liberating war. And I would tell those who are bothered by this definition actually to face the historical truth, to be prepared to condemn the regimes in the name of which this war and this aggression was waged. Because what's clear to all of us today, who's been attacking and defending, those in 100 years might not be there if it's not officially established. Furthermore, the definition of the defenders themselves is actually a step forward in relation to the solutions we've had so far, not to repeat what it says. The very fact that, therefore, the People's Protection are involved speaks of it. But in the end, I'll say something else about it further. Only in a few discussions did I have a chance to notice what my colleague Ragug said. So, an attempt to antagonise, so defense populations with other populations about certain rights, were even talked about privileges. It's a very wrong approach and inappropriate to this population. It's more about realising needs and correcting injustices. The fact that the law therefore provides for early and more favourable retirement, priority in employment, benefits for unemployed defenders, relief of health care and only the consequences of those defenders who went to defend Croatia did not have the opportunity to study and finish the colleges they started. And of course today they can't be equally competitive to others who haven't been on that occasion. And of course it takes the Croatian state to help these people through the priority of employment. Furthermore, the advantage... Why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, because these people are actually damaged health conditions much more than the rest of the population. The fact that it is justified, therefore, to consider a more favourable and premature retirement stems from findings that the life span of defenders is shorter than the rest of the population. And now here's the end of it, here's a member of the HVO, and I'm really honored by the HDZ Club to say the final word. In any case, I agree with my colleague Raguza, who said that this law has taken a step forward, that some of the issues that were only, therefore, the subject of a contract between the two countries today are resolved by law and that there will be no real dispute between these rights by anyone in BiH, the Federation of BiH. What I am, here's the obligation here to bring out, here and as president... in the Parliament within which the Defence Committee is also involved are some of the issues already proposed to the proposer, and as regards, therefore, the Croatian Defence Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there was a proposal that the definition of Croatian defenders should include members of the battle sector of the Croatian Council of Defence, and I think it was their place... HVO in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I also understand the promoter because this law solves a lot of rights that can not actually be solved in the same way for Croatian states but that are residents of the two states. And that's why I understand, so the fact that it's put in a special right in the head of the 9th and the head of the 10th, so this law. And the next thing, I also feel obliged to present here what has already been proposed, and that is to say that in article 141 is to consider, in addition to the members of the battle sector of the Croatian Council of Defence, which has recognised the status of a military invalid based on imprisonment and wounding, includes... PTSD, especially among them, is therefore the greatest risk of, therefore, taking a life or suicide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this law, in fact, those persons who unfortunately committed suicide, or their families, are actually involved with new rights. Therefore, at the end of the HDZ Club, they will, of course, support this law. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50540	I thank Mr. Ljubic for this debate. We have two replicas. Tomislav Panenić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50541	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Ljubic, here I would just look back at one constellation. God forbid any law defines me as a Croatian defender, God forbid it defines me as a volunteer of the Homeland War. Because I'm afraid that the respect we should have received from everyone involved, and especially those who have died, will eventually get lost. Because the laws will change. I'm just afraid we're not gonna end up like partisans. What is our point of view, the opinion of those people who today receive some pensions when every lifetime is over. I feel that way, because then I was really young, 18 years old, and what's going to happen in 20 years? Then will someone make fun of you, tell me you're just looking through some law that protects you. I don't want to go down to the law level, or any real defense attorney thinks he'll be defined by any law. Not only can it be that the state will consider whether it wants to repay these people and to what extent. But that someone would ask the state to define it, no. There are clear lists of people who participated, when the commanders behind that list participated, and they should actually answer to God and to people that it is true. Because the law has led to this that we have 500 thousand people reported, if only the defenders were real, then they would certainly be far more realistic and we wouldn't have to discuss so much about the laws, but that number that was then a real number, very easily, any government and this country, gave them those rights that they really believe were contributed to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50542	I thank my colleague Panenic for his replica. The answer of my colleague Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50543	Thank you. So, dear fellow Panenić, if I understood this replica of yours correctly, it refers to the fact that it would be unnecessary to actually regulate these rights legally, etc. However, in my debate, I have also pointed out that this is less about rights and more about correcting injustices towards that population and meeting needs. Namely, here I was a member of HVO, a Croatian defender, a resistance organizer, I have all these certificates etc., etc., but I never asked for any rights, the realisation of the rights especially not to retire because I don't need it, because my pension given the work I've been doing is even bigger than it could be based on my belongings and the defence population but not everyone is in the same situation. So we need to understand that fact and regulate it by law. I hope, as some colleagues have already pointed out, that we will adopt this law in this House with, I would say, the greatest consensus possible. And it will also be the recognition of the Ministry of Defence and the recognition of all the defenders who regulate this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50544	I thank Mr. Ljubic for his reply. Next replica of my colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50545	Comrade Ljubic, I will repeat once again what I have said to my colleagues. People, Croats from the BiH area were among the first to join the defence of the Republic of Croatia. In armed forces before the Republic of Croatia's recognition, and we must not forget that. That's a fact. The second fact that you mention, HVO, yes, are Croatian defenders, I have been with them for a year in the BiH area, and I think it's the bad situation for these people, the very policy you've been conducting. Just you. So imagine six generals, defenders in The Hague, so no one remembered or visited them, didn't think to give them legal help. So let's remember Ivo Sanader didn't dare go to Herzegovina. We can talk about this and what, so Zoran Milanovic at least left. So you who are the representatives of that people downstairs should have been much sharper towards Croatian politicians because the Constitution obliges them to fight for these people and not to move these people or to just use them as voting machines in the Republic of Croatia. We all have to fight here for the rights of these people, for these people to survive in these areas, it's the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, not to remain empty in those areas and not just to use them in certain moments as a voting machine. These people were responsible for defending the HVO, as Croatian defenders, and many in the 1990s were among the first, from these areas, to Croatian troops, even then there was no Croatian army. Therefore, the policies were bad, should be made public according to your areas and you are among the culprits, because you were not loud to Croatian policies, which did not stately address these areas. And from now on, be loud because it's never too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50546	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. The answer of my colleague Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50547	I thank my colleague Bulj, especially on your contribution to the defence of Croatian areas and in BiH Croatia, however, your thesis and accusations of the Croatian-political leadership in BiH for everything that has happened to the Croats in BiH, it seems little to me that the Croats have driven themselves out of central Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the people of Sarajevo have shelled themselves, etc., etc. You gave me a chance to better repeat actually the contribution of HVO, defence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, operations of Cincar, Winter of '94, Jump 1, Jump 2, Summer of '95, are actually dominant actions in which HVO participated, which allowed it to enter the Storm in the way it entered and freed the Republic of Croatia. But as far as the political leadership of the Croats in BiH is concerned, it is actually unfair, I would say to accuse those who fight on the ground and fight as hard as they can. And what Croatia can actually do more than what this law has done, and I would say, the most possible thing about the existing socio-economic and political relations in Croatia is to help both the multilateral and bilateral capacity of the Croatian political leadership in BiH, that elections to the right of legitimate political representation in BiH institutions to equality and that we can then be able to address those issues concerning both Croatian defenders and the support of the defence of our people unjustly accused both in The Hague and BiH, and that aid is not even necessary for us then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50548	I thank Mr. Ljubic for his reply. We have another replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50549	Your Honor, Vice President. Here's my colleague Ljubic, I got an e-mail, probably because BiH defenders don't recognize you who are fighting for their interests, meaning from the Association of HVO defenders from Ljubusko, who sent me amendments, meaning on this bill, so I'm going to do it in another reading, and as far as their rights are concerned, so now I don't elaborate everything and what they've sent me, but I think it is, and I'm going to rely on my colleague Bulja, that it's unfortunate that they're sending it to me and not sending it to you as an agent from that area. And in the second reading, I'm going to give the amendments and I'm just going to read this sentence. He says: “We, as an association, did not ask for or have a political sponsor from the Croatian parties in BiH, because our Croatian parties mainly took care of the defence population that we represent the problems that we have today would have solved long before. Here's what's sad, and that's what you need to work on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50550	When little hands come together, anything can happen. I thank you for the replica. Answer, colleague Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50551	My colleague Gromoy would not, therefore, engage in a political one, because this problem and this question requires consensus in this House, and that is how I will behave. As far as this is concerned, I am the chairman of the General Council of the Croatian National Assembly, which brings together 12 political parties and also the Department of Defence and where all associations are involved, i.e. the most important roof associations from the Homeland War in BiH and which support the Croatian politics in BiH, which is thus promoted by the Croatian National Assembly. As you could hear if you were listening, I have brought here today in fact practically in the form of a discussion of two amendments that could be found in this law. And believe me, therefore, that I have, even in my position, that the President of the General Council of the Croatian National Assembly is being sent to me by the amendments, so the associations are being sent. But here, for over a year, the associations have continued to cooperate and have been involved in the committees, so the Ministry of Defence and are aware of the real socio-economic opportunities in the Republic of Croatia and are aware of the fact that certain legal restrictions and are therefore aware that these solutions offered today in this law are possible at this moment, with what I consider to be possible, in the debate and the forthcoming period until the final draft of the law, we may still be able to fix and with your support, if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50552	I thank Mr. Ljubic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST independent lite esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50553	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Vukic. Here again at the end on behalf of the club MOST we welcome and support the idea of adopting a single law on Croatian defenders. I hope that during today's debate, we have made a lot of suggestions and as far as the Most Club itself and others here have expressed their views and that you will respect most of it or that you will respect what you think should be in line with the law and improve the status of defenders. It is particularly good here to define the same relationship with all Croatian defenders wherever they are from, but Croatian defenders are no matter what nationality they are from, from which areas they are from. The Croatian defender is the foundation of the Croatian state. The Croatian defender must come out the truth about the Croatian defender, a Croatian soldier who was a human, who was principled, who only defended his homeland. That any influence and policies should not be attributed to themselves by the defender either to the left, or to the right, to the center. These were all our fellow citizens who defended the Homeland and defended the Homeland and we must be grateful to them for our coming down here today in this House, in the Croatian Parliament. But the fact is that Croatian policies after the Liberation Homeland War, the defenders left the management of politicians who unfortunately did not run the Croatian state. They didn't hold on to the dignity of the Homeland War. Unfortunately, they persecuted the most prominent Croatian defenders and generals in order to achieve their particular interests or interests of some European officials, and even the documentation from this Homeland War was sent to tones in international courts who knew what routes. He didn't protect himself. It means the dignity of the Homeland War. Protect dignity, document the Homeland War. We have people like I said who can do it and that it stays once for history and that all the unique, all the suggestions that we know to pass a law that should be like you said constitutionally. But I'm sure it's just the way it is now without any further objections to be observed. I'm sure it's not good to change some laws every year. Homeland war is the cornerstone of the Croatian state, the Homeland War is a struggle against fascists from Serbia, Montenegro and occupiers from these areas and Croatian defenders are true anti-fascists, and we must say it out loud and publicly, who have defended themselves from the occupiers who have gone over these areas and have been a struggle for survival in this area. I must also point out that what is the message to future generations, i.e. The people who went out to get and then the Croatian defenders were young, they didn't go outside, they fought. However, the fact that war profiters are creating their empires, they have created their empires on the burden of those who have defended the Croatian state and that on this road in the common battle we who are in Parliament, people, citizens must jointly fight these corruption forces in this society that has been so bred to the pain, that the Croatian economic system is literally destroyed both in the Homeland War and after the Homeland War outside the territory which means it was occupied. Unfortunately, here I expect that you will also transfer secretaries to the minister, as well as to Prime Minister Plenkovic, to ask for war damage from Serbia of 45 billion euros and with this money could cover not only Croatian defenders, but that those who warn Croatia, who led the Chetnic movement such as Vukic, should apologize to Croatian citizens, defenders and finally tell us where our missing persons are dead, and not that I don't know what Croatians are talking about. However, they were hooligans who did great evil not only in Croatia but throughout the area of the former Yugoslavia. Once again MOST independent lists in first reading will naturally support the law. We gave you in writing, we made official remarks that you see which can improve this appearance of the law and I expect you will and will respect, if not in the second reading we will have our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50554	I would like to thank my colleague Bulju for this final word. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50555	Thank you very much. Comrade Miro, I find it particularly difficult when I say we have some suggestions that we have put into this debate, but surely since here we are not HDZ that we are not even good enough defenders, it turns out that way. Because when we look that, that you just have to go with what you're about to say, we've made proposals now, we should adopt that, and then we should adopt amendments. What does that show? So there's no common ground. I hope here's the Secretary of State to pass it on to the Minister. In fact, our message is what we want together. That we don't have to get into a situation where we're making amendments to this proposal and that in the end these people, here and Nikola mentioned that they're sending us suggestions that it's better to tell people then don't send us we're not good enough to fight for defense rights because HDZ is the one who knows best about defenders to care. I think it's real, don't bother me if I can finish it, so our word and struggle are unrecognized. And I'm going to try and get through these suggestions to get a really good review of the ministry, so it's not just a rejuvenation that we often have a case here that one of the HDZs or theirs from the ruling coalition made a proposal, so here they just adopted his proposal so they can pick it up a little bit. Let's put this level down around this law and be dignified and consider any proposal whether it comes from any club of MPs that ultimately determines whether it's an improvement, whether it's good for our defenders, whether it can be held on a longer term. And I think then we'll all be better quality and this esteemed House unanimously supports this law. Then that's the success of the Ministry of Defense and all the defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50556	I would like to thank my colleague Panenic for his replica and his response to his colleague, Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50557	So of course this law, I forgot there and I say there are, as I said in the beginning that there are a lot of things that are positive and that is the fact from health systems checks to unemployed, will be uniquely, will be returned to the Ministry of Defence, uniquely and the HVO that people also could not solve their problems, opening time periods for people who couldn't. There's a lot of good stuff here. However, there are a lot, there are certain things that we have made our proposals and I expect will be considered. I don't think a colleague who's there, Secretary Vukic, is going to have anything against something that's good if I think it's in the interest of all of us. And of course I expect that the law will be applied from 1.1.2018, not 2019, if possible because I know that the prime minister is here just when I asked him to remove the Chetnic monuments, when 11 of our defenders were moved that he had started talking about Croatian defenders. Well, I'm sorry if he hears this law already, if it's possible to apply it from 1.1.2018, not 1.1.2019, as it is said in Knin. Of course I... The defenders at this point, both HDZ, SDP, and MOST, this is a unique law, and we expect to bring together what is best, and I don't see any reason why we all together don't support this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50558	I thank you for your response to my colleague Bull. My colleague Djakic, I'd like to ask you nicely if you don't come in. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50559	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, you said, of course, that this law has positive things, but there are many things that we have made as observations. I also asked questions immediately, and in all this opening statement, you said a lot that was not mentioned either by the minister in his presentation, which is not in line with those pre-election promises made by HDZ and itself, in essence, the way in which this law was presented that he is comprehensive and that all those dispersed rights that exist in other laws and which are covered by other ministries within this law, it will not happen, so we are here today and presented and that is not so, but it does not mean that there are no positive aspects of the law. As for everything else, you have seen, as well as Djakic's colleague, being involved, what this debate looked like today, where I'm practically told, Mr Djakic has already decided whether I or not would be a Croatian defender. That's right, if you're in HDZ and you're in JNA, then you're not an officer at JNA, and if you're Vlaho Orepic, if you're in MOST and you're in the Homeland War, then you're a JNA officer. And what it is, for example. The same General Krsticevic from JNA, he is in HDZ, no one will tell him that he came from JNA, that is the problem and that HDZ monopoly on defenders and those who defended the Homeland. And I think if you look at the MOST club as a percentage has the most defenders and volunteers of the Homeland War but we're not, we don't have a HDZ membership card. We didn't raise any privileged defense loans, we didn't get used to it, and we're not good enough defenders for HDZ right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50560	I thank Mr. Grumoja for this replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Article 238. By replicating Mr. Bulj, my colleague is calling me that it has absolutely nothing to do with the debate led by Mr. Bulj. The fact that he escaped when it was necessary to listen to my replica is a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50562	I thank Mr. Djakic. Please do not abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure because nothing has been hurt by the Rules of Procedure, and these style locks of each of you MPs let it go to your soul. I especially note today at the High House when they should be unique about the matter under discussion. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Thank you very much. You're very kind. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just to correct you, Mr. Orepic was a senior officer, not a JNA officer. And we have Mr. Mira Bull's response to the replica, to Mr. Grmo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50563	The fact that when we talk about here now and this deputy JNA or Officer JNA, irrelevantly, or those people who came to HV and defended regardless of whether in HDZ was in JNA or in another if a man defended, means that he should be given a confession, however, not well by those criteria. Which party you're in then is good that you were an officer at JNA or a senior officer or vice versa. I believe that all Croatian defenders here must be unique, because in the Homeland War we did not see who was left, who was right, we were all united, I think that we who are here in this assembly, Croatian defenders will understand that and that we will find together models how this law... As good as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not doubting the effort we've put into this all we've put forward. And otherwise, when I mention it, I don't remember, I will now be your inspector, it seems to me that Mr. Andrija Mikulić, when I mentioned something, immediately came up with the documentation, he came to my medical from the war, the great hero Andrija Mikulić, and of course he came to present it without... Here's your secretary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that man wants to be in charge of the inspectorate. Here, Mr. Brkic will say if it is correct to the Croatian defender, that Andrija Mikulić, who presented the documentation here on the Croatian defender, is not ashamed of her. ... I'm not ashamed of her, but he'll be the boss of everything now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why? I'm not ashamed of everything that happened in the Homeland War, I can get my files out here, I was a young man 17 years old, I was a soldier, after war 12, no problem at all, I wish I had gone to study or if I had gone somewhere else, or I was like Andrija Mikulić in some other way, but that's how it is. They may be, in this way behave, although when there was the creation of the HDZ where he was, who would know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50564	I thank my colleague Bull. Everyone says what they say about themselves. I thank you for your answer. As far as personnel policy is concerned, I didn't know you were involved in personnel policy, so you knew what would happen in advance. But, okay. Visionaries are always welcome. We have one final word from the Secretary of State, the Department of Defense. Dear Mr. Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. I thank you all for the discussion and for the last comment, more concrete suggestions. Be assured that we will carefully analyse them all and adopt those measures that are acceptable and justified until the second reading to further improve the already proposed measures and solutions. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that the state, special care is devoted to the protection of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disabled persons, widows, parents and children of the dead Croatian defenders. On days 2 decades after the end of the Homeland War, the rights of defenders are not regulated and resolved properly. The facts that you can read from the results of the study that is before you, which was one of the basis for making a new bill, are clear indicators and the real situation and allows for a better condition in the segments of the lives of Croatian defenders. The defense population is old, and their health problems are becoming more difficult, and the mortality figures, about the average age they die in, are amazing. Hospitals are full of people without adequate status and it is therefore necessary to abolish the deadline for the status of Croatian defenders or HRVIA to allow all defenders or victims of the Homeland War to be worthy of their role in defending the country, and the achievement of the status is a basic prerequisite for the achievement of all the measures provided for in the law. It is high time that the status and material rights of all Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War who have been distributed for years into other laws of the union and to create legal existential security. If we don't do something about their rights today, given the merciless numbers, I'm afraid in 10 years, we'll have no one left for us. Which means that all rights are united in a single law, except for a single body of art that remains before the Ministry of Pensions and Labour. I would like to mention one more thing, which is that it means all the measures provided for, through the ministry's budget, through this law, and relating to the budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry, are secured for this year, depending on when the law will be adopted, and it will be in force 8 days after the adoption. So all the measures stemming from the law, relating to the budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry, will be immediately in office after 8 days, and the measures resulting from retirement, through pensions, they will be, one part of the measures will be taken in 2018 and one part of the measures in early 2019. So since 1.3.2018, part of the measures that go through retirement and that is why we have provided funding through 10 meetings, consultations, with the Ministry of Labour and Pensions. I hope you will make your contribution to the adoption of this law, because we must not allow those who created the Republic of Croatia who gave their lives for it, who were wounded to become disabled and their families who had passed all the fears and sufferings with them, to view themselves as burdensome. All of us, the entire Croatian state and every political option must be aware that without Croatian defenders there would be no independent Republic. Thank you all for participating in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50566	I thank Mr. Secretary of State Ivan Vukic for this final word. With this, we've exhausted all the debates and I'm closing the debate. And once again, I would like to thank the Minister of Croatian Defence who had to leave, the Secretary of State, Mrs Nevenka Benic, Secretary of State Mr Ivan Vukic and the principle sector of Mr Ivica Akmaj on the reasons and interpretations of this law. Thank you very much. On this item of the agenda, we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50567	We now move on to the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading, P.Z. No. 174. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant and considered when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 91 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 11 votes against the delivered conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary bodies. And now we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50569	Mr. President, I would like to thank the president of the HDZ Club for delivering these reports to me, and here I am, as soon as I print, will deliver our proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50570	Thank you very much. But I'm glad you're here, so you can give your president these materials to see that the government isn't hiding anything and that everything is available, you just need to know where to find it on the Internet. Thank you. So we continue with the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading, P.Z. No. 174 First of all, welcome to the representatives of all defence associations who are here with us, especially the greetings of the Association of Croatian Military Disabilities. Thank you for coming. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on War Veterans and you received reports at the session. He would now ask the applicant to give an additional explanation, it is Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50571	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. We have approached this law in order to provide the most responsible for the defence of our country with comprehensive care tailored to their needs. Since the status and material rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families and victims of the Homeland War were distributed in a number of different laws, which created legal and existential uncertainty for users and that the applicable law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families had been changed more than ten times, the analysis of the situation showed the need for extensive changes. With a strong legal foothold, by prescribing the fundamental values of which the sovereign Republic has emerged and by including all Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, in a unique legal framework, the recognition of their sacrifice is given and the protection of the integrity of the Homeland War and of all Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. This bill, which has been under way for more than a year, is the result of inter-resorship cooperation with competent authorities and for the first time has been attended by Croatian defenders through the work of project teams. The analysis, which served as a basis for lawmaking, showed the following. Of the 505 694 Croatian defenders on the record, 442 710 live today. Permanent rights under the applicable law are granted by 56,5662 defenders who have the status of a Croatian military disabled. 82 889 Croatian defenders are unemployed and there is no regular income. The particularly worrying fact is that more than 54 thousand Croatian defenders are urmo after the Homeland War and each year more and more are dying. 4073 Croatian defenders died in 2016. The analysis of the situation has shown that some of the key problems that require the adoption of a new law are the closed deadline for achieving the status of a Croatian wartime war invalid from the Homeland War... and diseases in 2006 and the status of Croatian defenders in 2009, dispersion of status and material rights of the defence-sufficient population, insufficient health care for Croatian defenders, unemployment, abolished supply, long-term housing care, unfavourable conditions for retirement, especially for Croatian defenders who do not have the status of Croatian military disabled in the Homeland War, long-term medical skill procedure for the needs of status and rights of Croatian defenders and others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This draft law provides for the regulation of status. The bill allows for the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War and those who have not yet met the conditions of a certain law will be able to achieve the status of Croatian defender in the process in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. Under the applicable law, the status of Croatian defenders is determined only by those members of the armed national protection squads who spent at least 5 months in them until 24 December 1991. Under the proposal for a new law, the achievement of the status of Croatian defenders will allow the following members of the national protection that could not achieve their status under the applicable law. Members of armed national protection teams directly engaged in the fighting sector, for a minimum of 100 days, from 30.7.2011 to 31.12.1991. Members of the armed national protection teams directly engaged in the fighting sector who were killed, imprisoned or missing in the period from 30.7.1.1 to 31.12.1991, regardless of the number of days of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Several hundred new statuses of Croatian defenders are expected to be opened due to the opening of the deadline. The status of volunteers, as regards the status of volunteers from the Homeland War, is the novelty that Croatian defenders, who had no obligation to participate in the reserve or did not regulate the military obligation to serve the military period, will primarily think about women and minors, have the possibility of recognising volunteer status even though they have had at least 100 days of the fighting sector since 5.8.1990-31.12.1995 or as a valid law for at least 30 days from 5.8.1990-15.1.1992. Some of the rights provided for volunteers in determining pensions for volunteers are increased by an additional 10% compared to other Croatian defenders. Volunteers from the Homeland War who have not achieved the status of a Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War, who have participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia for more than 2 years in the fighting sector, have the right to housing care, the advantage of employment in the order of the championship. The status of a Croatian wartime war invalid from the Homeland War, proposed by this law, allows for the status of a Croatian war invalid from the Homeland War on the basis of disease. When the deadline closed, for recognition of the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid, there is a disease, it has been nearly 12 years, in which some 40,000 Croatian defenders died. Out of 2000-3000 Croatian defenders are in the constant procedure of hospital treatment, and some of them died without the right status, as the deadline for recognition of the status of Croatian wartime wartime invalid is closed. According to the bill, all Croatian defenders who, due to their participation in the Homeland War, are ill or worsened, who have the continuity of treatment from disease to date, by applying, will be able to establish the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid, if they are diagnosed by medical skill, a causal intermediate link between disease and participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Our estimates are that by 2025, around 5,000 and 700 Croatian defenders will have a disability pension based on the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid. Skills for the purpose of achieving the status and rights of this law, with the aim of institutional improvement, and given the current problem of handling the procedures necessary for the achievement of status and rights of the defence victims' population, we must stress that this is about the specificity of the problem, the slowness of the conduct, the new law, the establishment, the special element of establishment within the Institute of Arts, professional rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities in the procedures for achieving the status and material rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, who will be responsible for all the skills concerned by those users. Currently in the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, about 40,000 cases, including Croatian defenders, have been unresolved. It is not possible to perform current art within the law of certain deadlines, but it is also waiting for the art for a year. The introduction of new categories, a participant of the Homeland War, other than Croatian defenders, gave their contribution to the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, following which they needed to be adequately included in the legal provisions governing issues of the defence victims' population. The category of participants needs to be distinguished from the categories of persons who achieve the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War, as well as from categories of persons who also do not have the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War, but because of the damage to the organism, they exercise certain rights as Croatian military disabled people from the Homeland War. For this category of participants of the Homeland War, this law does not provide for material rights, but for moral satisfaction, through the recognition of their contribution, the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, by including this category in this law. According to Art. 15. The proposal for a law on the status of participants may be obtained by a member of a national protection team other than those referred to in Article 3(3). This law, therefore, except for those who can leave the status of Croatian defender. And medical staff who were in charge of caring for wounded and injured defenders, and failed to achieve the status of Croatian defender. War reporter, a member of the fire squad, a seaman, a member of the crew of merchant Navy ships, except those who are wounded, and as such exercise the rights of a Croatian military disabled. Either they disappeared or died, and members of their families exercise certain rights as members of the family of the dead or missing, and members of civil protection. The dead Croatian defenders, the status of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War, is a status that primarily applies to Croatian defenders who have suffered defrauded in the Homeland War, or shortly after the Homeland War. Since more than 20 years have passed since the Homeland War, in Article 8 of the bill, a new category has been introduced, a Croatian defender died, and members of their families are exercising the rights set out in this law. For members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The following permanent rights are provided for members of the family of the deceased Croatian defenders under the bill, family pensions for family members, married or out-of-marriage friends and children, compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders and members of their families, for married or out-of-marriage friends. Health care, in order to correct the current situation in which there is no systematic and adequate health care for Croatian defenders, this bill proposes the following measures, will allow members of the families of the dead or missing persons to be subject to compulsory health insurance and after the right to a family disability has ceased if they cannot achieve this right on another basis. Compared to the current law, the exemption from participation in the coverage of part of health care costs, the Croatian Defence Card has been extended to children of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of the missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and after they have ceased their right to the family of disabled persons or to pay for a family disability if they are unemployed and if during the use of the family disability or for the amount of family disability they have left without the parental care of another parent or the death of another parent. These two conditions must be cumulatively met, or while the beneficiaries of benefits for the unemployed are provided for by this law. Medical rehabilitation will allow all Croatian defenders with damage to the organism as a result of their participation in the Homeland War, not only for Croatian wartime military disableds, as is the applicable law. Assessment for 2018 fiscal impact 7.3 million kuna for 1400 users. Systematic reviews for Croatian defenders are being introduced, estimated 20 million kuna for 26.030 users for 2018. It should be pointed out that we already implemented this measure before the entry into force of the new law in 2017. The adoption of a national strategy for the protection and preservation of the health of Croatian defenders is foreseen, no later than 60 days after the entry into force of this law. First in pension insurance, the lowest pension base will be determined from the average net salary of 2016. So far, this has been according to the average salary of the year preceding the year of retirement to avoid future imbalances of users depending on the year of retirement. The base is increasing depending on the number of days in the fighting sector 0.50 kuna per day of participation in the fighting sector. Users who are entitled to a minimum pension before the entry into force of the new law will also be able to obtain an add-on depending on the length of participation in the fighting sector. The 2018 estimate is an additional 64 million kuna for 32,000 users who will achieve a higher minimum pension. An age pension, an age to go to the retirement pension of a Croatian defender from the Homeland War compared to the age prescribed by the Pension Insurance Act is reduced by four months if he participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the fighting sector from 100 days to five months or for one month for each month to participate in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the fighting sector if he participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the fighting sector for more than five months. Under the applicable law, the retirement pension could not be more than the amount of the pension determined on the basis of 40 years of the total pension standing. The bill abolished that restriction. The level of pension of each defender also depends on the number of days in the fighting sector, unlike the model so far, where, when increasing personal points for the calculation of pensions, the days in the non-combat sector were also included. An estimate for 2019 of an additional 25 million kuna. We also predicted the possibility of working on a pension. Working with an old age pension until half full-time without suspending or reducing pensions, working on pensions due to partial loss of working ability to work full-time while reducing pensions by respecting the pension factor 0.66667 and not subject to a review before and after the start of employment. Work on disability pensions due to total loss of work capacity, less than 3.5 hours a day without suspending or reducing pensions, and before and after the start of employment, they are not subject to a review. Family pension, expansion of the user circle to family pension according to this law to children and spouses and extramarital spouses, dead Croatian wartime disabled third and fourth groups who used to death the right to supplement the care and assistance of another person from 40 years of age. Under the current Law of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War, only married or out-of-marriage comrades of the deceased Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War 1st and 2nd group who used to death the right to add to the care and assistance of another person to do so only if at the time of the death of the Croatian defender they were 40 years old. Enabling the right to a family pension under this law for married or extramarital spouses and children of dead Croatian defenders with 50 years of age on condition that at the time of the death of a Croatian defender they are 40 years old. So far, it has been achieved by widows' rights under the Pension Insurance Act at the age of 50 if at the time of the death of the Croatian defender they had 45 years of life. The estimate for 2019 is 67 million kuna. The peace rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families. Members of the HVO and members of their families through a proposal for a new law shall be able to protect acquired rights. There are currently 6,804 persons with disabilities and family pensions under the contract between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on co-operation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in BiH who were members of the HVO and members of their families and about 6,000 users of the disability and family pension achieved by 2000 under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families. Expansion of pension rights, the right to invalidity pension to members of the HVO, wartime military disabled with 100% damage to the first group's organism based on both disease and injury. First on disability pension, they couldn't make it by contract and we expect 50 new users. The right to a disability pension for those who have not submitted a request within a month of being in force under the current contract we expect 500 new users. Realising the right to a family pension for members of the HVO family on the basis of death from the consequences of injury, injury, illness or suicide, we expect about 500 new users. Realising the right to a family pension for members of the families of the dead military disabled members of the HVO who were beneficiaries of the disability pension under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Achieving the right to a family pension for family members and deceased members of the HVO whose individual members have already exercised the right to a family pension on the basis of a solution to the recognised right to a family disability. Estimate for 2019 increases 17 million kuna. In the proposal for a new law, we specifically focused on the right to housing, given that it is currently on the housing list of 11 thousand 536 users in order to speed up, measures have been introduced. Housing care with financial support has been extended for all purposes of housing. Allowed the purchase of individual affected users of state-owned apartments and the ownership of units of local self-government. The exemption has also been extended to financial support, a model of organised housing that will be attended by the Croatian Defence Ministry and thus have the possibility of supervision. Enabling and facilitating the use of a wider circle of state-owned real estate. Expansive circle of possible property owners who own property adequate for residential care. The deadlines for housing are set for groups. At the expense of the Croatian Defence Ministry other than the principal, the payment and interest generated by the repayment of the loan is foreseen. This is an additional 15 million kuna in 2018. We have also envisaged employment measures, the right to take advantage of employment has been extended, mechanisms have been prescribed to facilitate the implementation, i.e. respect of this provision by the employer. Protection of employees of Croatian defenders, tax reliefs have been introduced for employers who employ children of the mortally injured or missing Croatian defenders, only pay contributions for pensioners. We are introducing compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders, the right to replace the 2014 supply, it has been transferred to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. Compared to the previous supply, a circle of users has been extended to children of the mortally injured or missing Croatian defenders and after they have ceased their right to a family disability or to a family disability or to a money compensation from a family invalid and a spouse or an extramarital friend of the dead Croatian wartime wartime wartime wartime warlord or a dead Croatian defender from the Homeland War. In contrast to the provision, the amount of the compensation depends on the number of days in the defense of sovereignty and the amount of the compensation will be higher for those with the maximum number of days. According to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, 82 000 889 Croatian defenders are not employed and are not retired. In 2013, there were about 6 thousand users of the supply, guaranteed a minimum fee of 3900. The estimate for 2018 is 7 000 900 users for which we and the Ministry of Finance predicted 101 million kuna. Measures in terms of education, accommodation in social care institutions, advantage in the lease of business space, re-use of agricultural land, extras for house assistance, the right to compensation for the cost of personal car adjustment, the right to psychosocial assistance, the addition to children, defence thank-yous. What I particularly want to say is that we have foreseen measures to facilitate the burial, i.e. The insurance of the grave, the cost of burial with military honors, the maintenance of graves. The Croatian Defence Ministry carries the cost of burying and transporting remains of the mortally injured Croatian defender and outside the Republic of Croatia. The grave places with remains of the Croatian Homeland War defender behind which there are no living heirs cannot be considered abandoned. The members of the family of the missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War have been granted the right to the burial place. The financial impact according to the PFU model in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 for the implementation of this law is planned to add an additional 219.2 million kuna to the position of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Another 64 million kuna was planned at the position of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System in 2018. According to the Ministry of Finance's projections, an additional 245 million kuna for pension rights and laws have been planned at the position of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System as of 1 January 2019. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I call on all MPs and representatives for a unique approach to the adoption of laws that are most responsible for the defence of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50572	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive and informative presentation that caused 15 replicas. The first one came to the line from Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50573	Dear Ministers, here after a long time, your idea of passing a single and comprehensive law lies before us parliamentary representatives and which is good in two readings. I just asked you through the replica, it was said on August 24th in Knin at a cabinet session that the law will start from 1.1.2018, however, after a public debate, now that the defender's office has appeared that they know that the law will start from 1.1.2019, means a year behind and especially would like to mention here, since you are now mentioning that the Homeland War is essentially what we all say, the foundation of the modern Croatian state and Croatian defenders are really supposed to be an institution but the fact that we have to stop for all of these proposals and discussions in this reading, we need to stop statements from your coalition partners, we also see that it is increased and mortality and it is not the dignity of the Homeland War, if your coalition partner Milorad Pupovac, compared General Bobetko with Slobodan Milosevic, Slavko Dokmanović and Milan Babić. It is not the dignity of the Homeland War if we only talk about eleven dead Croatian defenders from the HOS while in Croatia we have Chetnik monuments. Shocker and others, and it is not a dignity for the Croatian state not to be of Vučić Chetnik, who commented on this law, to ask for it, and you can do it as a representative of the Government, and we, the Parliament, are supported, the war damage of 45 billion euros, and will be for this Law on Croatian defenders and for all other social categories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50574	Thank you, thank you. Minister, later, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. The second replica, gave up one of the MPs, the third replica of the esteemed colleague Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50575	I thank the President, Your Honor. In your presentation, of course you mentioned and related to pension insurance rights, we absolutely support a fairer way of distribution compared to participation in the fighting sector, but I would like to point out one calculation that is happening now and that will happen afterwards. In terms of calculation and personal points and the value of the factor for the calculation of the pension, we know that the lowest prescribed pension is about 2,600 kuna. Namely, the person who goes to early retirement with 35, the defenders, we're talking about defenders who have 100 or 200 days of the fighting sector, who goes into early retirement has less, means 35 years of internships, than someone who's gone into an old age without a day's internship. Also, people who go into retirement, so we talk when they turn 65 and I commend the part that reduces age-limits also to the number of days spent in the fighting sector, but these same number of days in the fighting sector are worth about 4 years, to equalize with that supplement that does not apply to pensions under a special regulation, is said of 27% that apply to all others, which go according to the Retirement Insurance Act. So that part doesn't even up, and we come to the point that someone with an average salary of about 4,000 to four and a half, has defenders, too, has less, so this won't affect him. And he'll have the same pension as someone who was five or five days old. In my opinion, of course, we don't need to penalize defenders who don't have an internship, but we certainly need to think about those who have spent their entire lives paying their pension contributions, doing their whole lives to end up having those 2,600 kuna minimum guaranteed pensions as well as those who haven't had a day's internship if we're saying they have the same number of days spent in the fighting sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50576	Thank you. The fourth replica, the esteemed representative of Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50577	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I dare say that the Law on Croatian Defence is one of the most important laws in this term that I am convinced this House will accept. The analysis of the healthcare system has shown the specific needs of the defence population, and in this sense, I welcome the improvement of health policies towards Croatian defenders in a law that has 219 articles, 11 articles and 30 places mention the concept of psyche, or mental illness. We know that a significant number of Croatian defenders unfortunately committed suicide, mentioning the concept of psycho-social assistance, psycho-social empowerment. The National Centre for Psycho Trauma, you have already mentioned that it has already started with systematic reviews and if we look at the socio-demographic characteristics of Croatian defenders then we can certainly place them in a risky population and it is therefore extremely important that this law includes improving health rights. I would also mention that already after 1995 it started with the establishment of a psychosocial assistance centre, and since 1999 there has been a national strategy, however, the fact is that it is not the same situation in 2017 as it was 10 or 20 years ago, and on that side it is important to pass a completely new law on Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50578	Next replica, dear colleague Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50579	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected Croatian Defence Ministers, restoring dignity to Croatian defenders through the regulation of all rights through this proposal that you have brought forth a new law yourself, you are making a huge step towards an important topic, which is uniting the rights of defenders through one law. This law establishes a fairer way of determining the amount of individual rights, depending on the time spent in defending the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. For every commendation, this is how the bill was prepared. You, Mr. Minister, are like the one who has made a great contribution to the defence of the homeland, presenting the proposal of this law very openly and specifically, presented all the problems that are being imposed in the defence population, but also offered, as we have said here slowly all those who appear, a new legal framework that we are seeing, you and the ministry have already slowly and met, which is that many ministries participate in the rights of defenders and then each defender is slowly lost in that forest. The exclusive intention I saw in this defense new bill is that you put everything in one place as a new proposal and a new framework and thus provided an opportunity to see also in those defenders who did not exercise their rights, one step. So, who runs the high ground, i.e. To restore dignity, not only to the defender, but also to the dignity and dignity of the Homeland War. That's why, I believe, with this kind of approach, the core that you've approached today, it's going to come across the support of everyone here in the House, and we're not dealing with other issues today, but only with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50580	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50581	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear ministers, dear guests, colleagues and colleagues. I have listened to this presentation several times already, the Law on Croatian Defences and the minister claims that it is a worrying fact that defenders are dying. So dying is a natural process. All die both doctors and teachers and parliamentary representatives, Prime Ministers, children, it doesn't mean anything in itself. So I assume that you actually wanted to say something else, which is that Croatian defenders, as a social category, have a lower age structure, so they die earlier than some other social categories. I expected that since you gave us here two books printed in the ministry's cost, with a number of statistics, you would say something about it, therefore, that you would compare the age of defenders with some other occupations. Let's say, with firemen, with pyrotechnics, with miners or some of those other hard-working, there's no such thing. So I ask you, if you are already going out with a claim like that, to inform the public, what is the exact data, what is the exact statistics. You have the resources, you have the Department of Statistics, we have the demographics, we have the employment of the ministry. So please give them the job, too, because this claim that defenders die doesn't say anything for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50582	Next up is my esteemed colleague, Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50583	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, you were mostly talking about the positive aspects of this law, however, I would warn you of some things you didn't mention. In fact, you forgot to mention that in addition to predicting the lowest pensions, all other pension rights provided for in the new law will not apply to persons retired before the entry into force of this law. You also forgot to mention that the law will not apply to defenders, who have exercised their rights under the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance, active military personnel, police officers and authorised officials whose pensions, although they are Croatian defenders and volunteers, are far less due to the lack of certain provisions and the Law on Croatian defenders, all contrary to the principle of equality on which our legal system rests. I also listened to your speech, and you said in your statements several times, as the idea that this law should be comprehensive and that all the rights which are distributed in other legal areas should be united in it. If you have succeeded in this, it will show time, however, I would remind you of several legal solutions, which do not contribute to your statement on the unification of all dispersed rights in one whole law, because the achievement of the medical and pension insurance arrangements, and the rights based on physical damage, are achieved by other regulations, and not by this proposal. I don't have time to read these articles now, so it's not entirely true that this law has united all the rights of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50584	Next up, dear colleague Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50585	Dear Mr. Bear, I'd like to welcome this law that we've actually been waiting for for for a long time, because I think after 20 years, it took a law that would unite everything and that we had to restore the dignity of the Homeland War. What you'd really like is that I'm sorry you didn't list two categories of those who weren't supposed to be at war. In the Homeland War there were women who had no obligation, 23 thousand women were in the Homeland War, 127 women died. They were minor defenders of 3.5 thousand, Vukovar himself defended 96 minor defenders, the youngest Igor Kacic, 16 years old, was found buried in Ovcara and 46 died. No matter how much you say they will be able to exercise their rights or be volunteers of the Homeland War, I think those two categories deserve a special one item and say that all women and all minors of the Croatian Army are volunteers at the same time, if they were women who were in the fighting sector. I would refer again to the story of whether to write who was the aggressor and who participated and fought against Croatia. What Vukic says against this law amuses me just as much as sharing passports with foreign actors. What saddens me is that a Croatian Parliament MP speaks for Serbian media against this law, and members of his nationality together with us fought in the Homeland War. One of them is my friend Dracha, the captain of the company who ran out of legs and did it all the way to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50586	Thank you, fellow Foreign You can't, I'm sorry time's up. [[Strenja raid: Let me finish yet.]] Thank you. Next up, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50587	Thank you, Your Honor. On this occasion, I would like to read a letter from a Croatian defender, he says: "Dearly, this is the way I want to address the Croatian Assembly through the esteemed Mr. Pernar who has made it possible for me. This is about the following, I am the bearer of the National War monument and decorated by the Order of the Croatian Cross and I have an officer's post. In 1992, I was sent from the Borongaj military to the warground in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 108. HVO Brigade, I've been hit twice and easier once. After long treatment in Zagreb and several medical committees, I was in '98. Got HRVs with 50% damage starting in 1996. But there are problems, after more questions to me my solution was never addressed, only 17 years after the law passed by Fred Matic, which abolished my solution under the pretext that I fought in HVO. I, after my lawsuit to the Administrative Court of Osijek, find out that this solution really exists. How is it possible for the Ministry of Defense to hide the solution for 17 years and which has not been delivered to this day? The question is, did anyone use my pension since there's a manual number of solutions and why is no one responsible for the will of the state authorities? Thank you. Ivo Marojevic, Vinkovačka 35 32726 Rokovci’. And what's this about? It is about the fact that the Croatian man sent them to fight in HVO, and then when he fought in HVO they told him when he came back wounded, behold, you did not fight in the Croatian military but in the HVO, so I wonder what the ministry plans to do about these cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50588	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50589	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister. In conversations with people, especially defenders, I haven't come across anyone who hasn't praisedly expressed himself about this law that's been prepared, so you can be proud of it as the minister who did it. However, I have responded to the replica, or to a little clarification in Article 29, which discusses encouraging the employment of age - pensioners. So until halftime without freezing a pension and about the right to recalculate after a year spent in employee status. I was warned to draw attention to this article because it says that after one year of internship or termination of employment, the pensioner has the right to recalculate pensions but under the law of the general regulation. So it might happen that those defenders who would do it would eventually have a smaller pension than they had before they quit their retirement and went to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50590	Replica number ten, dear colleague Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50591	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. First of all, I commend this guide who is related to this Law on Defence, which is good for both the first and second readings, and everything is as transparent as this demographic and socioeconomic study that was first made out of which to read a lot of what you were saying in your opening presentation. Since it's a replica and a short time, I'd like to refer to something you may have said in a hurry, but I'm glad you were watching out for that. Namely, you said and talked about a unique body of art in the Republic of Croatia where there are also a large number of defenders, almost all of them, but at this point it's about 40,000 unsolved items. It's not a small number, it's a large number. I remember very well that the former government in 2013 received one World Bank loan of almost 70 million euros and one part of these funds, in fact, almost 4 million kunas, should have been for the unification and harmonisation of the art and administration procedures. What's good with this law definitely, and maybe not much to talk about is that a special organisational unit was created within the unique body of art that would help many Croatian defenders. I think this is something to be very careful about, I know from experience that these skills take a long time and that they cause great frustration in ordinary citizens, especially in the population of Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50592	Thank you. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50593	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Both HSS and I personally support the adoption of the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families. And surely through this law, we should regulate the status of defenders, improve their status, restore the dignity of the Homeland War. Because we who are in '91. were in the fighting sector and helped those who were in the non-combat sector we then took a rifle and defended our home, wanted to save their family, wanted to create a country not to flee from it to Germany or some other country. Because if we ran away we wouldn't be here today, we wouldn't have our own country. Why am I pointing that out? Because here I bring you welcome to the defender of Brod-Posavina County. There is one fear of not implementing the law as is the practice in the Republic of Croatia. Because you mentioned in your presentation more than 88 thousand unemployed defenders and we had a law where employers had a duty to hire and defend themselves. That's what you see in 88 grand it didn't happen. And they want to say that those who are able to work, want to contribute to the development of Croatia as they dreamed of, wanted in '91. Not to be pushed into retirement. I welcome, of course, the expansion of the possibility of retirement and the increase of pensions but those who are working are willing and able to work. In order to work, however, it is a question of what you and the government and other ministers can do to create new jobs, especially in Slavonia, to stimulate the employer to hire defenders. And what's more dangerous today than a '91 bullet. And that's that most defenders who are employed work on a contract for a certain time and work for a minimum salary of 2.5 thousand kuna which is too little and it's more dangerous than a '91 bullet. They're going to Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50594	Thanks, buddy. Next replica, dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50595	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am expressing concern regarding your exposure which is not supported by financial data as to how much the defence law package will cost Croatian taxpayers. Because it is very clear that we are not able to finance Croatian defenders' pensions from contributions and that they are expanding and covering but that some new rights are being introduced. On the other hand, I would like to appeal to the minister to agree with the Minister of Labour and Pension System because we are creating different types of pensioners in Croatia. If we allow Croatian defenders to work for 4 hours regardless of how they are retired, we must allow that to happen to our pensioners who are in early retirement who do not allow it. On the other hand, I'd like the minister to explain to me or one of his associates if someone has a general incompetence to work how can they work? Which is why, if so, if he is completely incompetent to work, how can he get out of that pension and go to work? No employer will hire him. And these are the questions that should be resolved so as not to create two types of pensioners, one under this law and the other under the Pension Insurance Act. Or you can even it out because you're extending pensioners' rights under the Law on Croatian Defence, and according to the Pension Insurance Act, the other thing is to call ordinary pensioners that they have no right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50596	Thank you. The 13th replica of the esteemed colleague, Dodig, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50597	Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. On this occasion, I would like to express my satisfaction that we have material serious on page 137, 219, and two more brochures. So the seriousness that you have come to draft this law also speaks of your attitude towards Croatian defenders. I'd like to add the following. The law that we will bring to another reading, and in the end, it depends much more on it than on what it means by itself. There'll be a lot of amendments, I'm sure they'll improve it. But I would like to stress that the seriousness to which we must approach this law is the seriousness which contains more and more attempts to correct the tendency to degrade the Homeland War, Croatian defenders and the Croatian state. With this law, I am convinced that we will partially stand in the way of such tendencies. Because without the proper evaluation of the Homeland War, Croatian defenders have no appreciation of the Croatian state. That is why I support and will study this law in detail and participate in his final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50598	Thank you. It is now up to the respected representative Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50599	Thank you, Mr. President. We welcome the government's decision to pass one whole law that includes all rights of the defence population. But we expected a lot more from this law. First of all, in a way that this law is not in fact the separation of the defence population within our society as an absolutely privileged group, which unfortunately happened with this law and we think in GLAS it is completely disproportionate to the law, meaning it is not proportionate to the financial predominance of the Republic of Croatia, the pension fund in the Republic of Croatia, and it is neither proportionate in general in the economy nor in the social situation of the Republic of Croatia. And I believe that a good part of our political elite will welcome exactly this particular majority, meaning HDZ and partners, but we must express criticism because we represent not only defenders here, we do not represent certain stakeholders but we represent all citizens in the Croatian Assembly. So I'm asking Mr. Minister if anyone has thought about what the law thinks about those who work at the cash registers in Konzum who may not be doing tomorrow, who receive 2,800 kuna? What do citizens who receive an average pension of 3 400 kuna who have worked full-time for 40 years or who receive an average pension of 2,200 kuna that has come from work? And we are now further increasing rights for which I am not against, but I am against it in a way because the dignity of Croatian defenders and the Homeland War can neither be bought... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50600	Thank you very much, Mrs Turina-Đurić, I ask you to stick to the order as everyone else does. It's my dear colleague, Beus Richembergh. [[Turina-Đurić: Thank you, I'm sorry.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50601	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I think it is a great shame for the Croatian Parliament to pass such a law in 2017. 22 years after the Homeland War, the Croatian Parliament acknowledges that so far all authorities have neither protected nor respected those who carried out on their shoulders or on their wounds or on their lives, the Homeland War. So that's one thing to underline. It's a shame that 22 years after the war, we need to talk about basic things. That's the first thing. The second thing, it is also a shame that such laws re-implant the status of the second and third order of citizens in Croatia. For years in this House, we've been talking about it. That the same kind of disability should not be discriminatory. That a man who doesn't have a hand regardless of whether this damage occurred in the war as in the fighting sector or in the military, as a civilian, as someone born without a hand, as someone who acquired it, that disability in a car accident or an accident at work. And this law confirms that there are citizens of the first and second order, although they have equal disability. Furthermore, it should also be said that the country that has driven thousands and thousands of people in the best of strength, in the flower of youth in retirement and made them people who could not make a concrete and quality contribution to the future of this country. Today, there are many people among them who have left not only their youth but also the perspective of their families at the bar, at the bookshops, at the social bottom because they turned their backs. But also, Mr. Minister, in Croatia, we are now passing a law that will cost us five and a half billion kuna by 2025. As of this year, the obligation to cover new rights defined by this law has increased exponentially, which is 5 and a half billion kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50602	After the replica, I would like to call on the rapporteur of the Obera legislation and the Committee on War Veterans if they want to take the floor. Dear counterpart Djakic, chairman of the War Veterans Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50603	... Mr. Secretary of State, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I welcome all present at the gallery, guests especially Croatian defenders, disabled and president of the 100% disabled. So the report of the War Veterans Committee on the Proposal for a Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families, which proposed Law No 174, at its 6th session held on 19 September 2017, discussed the proposal of the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government in an act of 4 August 2017. The Committee held the hearing as a parent body, in accordance with the provisions of Article 91. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. According to the proposing representatives, the proposal for a new law aims to address the issue of defence-sustaining populations in a comprehensive way, i.e. to enable the most responsible for the creation of the Republic of Croatia's necessary and comprehensive care. The bill is the result of the inter-resorship cooperation of all competent authorities that care for Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. The current law has been amended and complemented more than 10 times, and it mainly prescribed the rights of Croatian wartime wartime peoples from the Homeland War and family members, the deadly victims of Croatian defenders. The need for a defence-suffering population 22 years after the end of the war has changed significantly. The new legislative proposal more precisely defines certain concepts and institutes, harmonizes the name of the law with its contents, deletes the provisions which have proved unnecessary, regulates the status rights, in particular as regards the opening of the deadline for obtaining the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War. Protection of the bankruptcy rights of members of the HVO and strengthening the regional units of the ministry. The proposal for a law against the applicable law brings a number of new developments in the exercise of pension rights, the reduction of the age-limit for retirement, the increase of the personal pension point, the possibility of employment already in the pension of defenders without suspending pensions, etc. Employment rights, foresees tax reliefs for employers who employ defenders and victims, better quality and more precisely regulates the provisions on priority in employment, on equal terms. Rights of housing, expansion of financial support for other purposes as well. It enables the use of property owned by a state that has not been in office for a long time for the housing of defenders and victims. In the model organised residential construction, to control the participation of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Proposed law, new categories are introduced and a participant of the Homeland War and a dead Croatian defender and members of their family. The Institute of Monetary Compensation for Unemployed Defendors is also being introduced instead of supplies. It criticises the right to the grave site, the maintenance of grave sites, and the cost of total dead defenders. The register of Croatian defenders will no longer be made publicly available. A thank-you note has been made available by the Croatian Defence Minister, individuals and units for participation in the action of the Republic of Croatia. It is possible to obtain the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War, based on disease, a systematic review is being introduced, for all Croatian defenders, every 3 years. For the implementation of the novelty provided for by this bill, it will be necessary in 2018 in the state budget at the position of the Croatian Defence Ministry to provide 219.2 million kuna. And at the position of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System 64 million kuna. The following comments and proposals and opinions were presented in the debate that followed. The bill has made great progress compared to the current one, and it would be good to reach a consensus. It is also necessary to consider the possibilities for this law to become as required by defence associations or by organic or constitutional organisations. That is, to enter into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is the desire of defense associations. Not enough... Facilitation for the employment of Croatian defenders and victims, the family pensioner's circle is expanding, as it is an age limit of 40 years. age too low, and the same right should be tied to property censorship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Legally for the re-use of agricultural land, more specifically for the avoidance of possible malfeasances. By introducing regular systematic checks for Croatian defenders, diseases will be detected in due time to reduce their mortality. It is expressed satisfaction with the possibility of achieving status and for members of national protection, but at the same time expressed concern that the implementation, which is in charge of the defence ministry, will be a problem in the head of which the labour law is prescribed, should be, must be, must be, must be, must be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, shall be, in the possession of the units of local and regional self-government units, which shall not be, so far be the case. Because there are opportunities to hire Croatian defenders. Data related to the list of all outstanding and inadequate claims of credit-users from the credit-based employment programme have been requested... Members of the Croatian Army prescribed Article 2014. a bill of law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is, the total amount that is written off, to which it is written off, and whether the funds have been spent on purpose. The minister promised to submit the requested information to the board, i.e. to the members until the debate on the draft law at the plenary session. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously, with 9 votes in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to draw the following conclusions. Under 1 the proposal of the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their family and under 2, all comments, proposals and opinions shall be made in the debate, will be addressed to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50604	Thank you, colleague Djakic. And now we're going to a club debate. The first came to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50605	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, with their associates, respected Croatian defenders in the assembly and in front of TV screens. Dear Mr. Minister, we welcome and support your idea and initiative on the adoption of a single and comprehensive law on the rights of Croatian defenders. The law has been amended 10 times, however, Croatian defenders deserve to discuss this law in the most public and transparent way. And in particular, I support you for the fact that only in the first 4 months, 1085 defenders died, on average 50 years. The extreme mortality of the people of the Homeland War, the emigrants of the Homeland War, is below average, we see that young people die and leave their families. As far as you have succeeded in your intention, it will show satisfaction to the defenders themselves, as well as to the compensation of the impact assessment of this law, which the ministry will give to the Parliament in two years' time. In particular, we should highlight positive examples of the proposal in this law, which is dispersion. A higher amount of compensation for employees of defenders, who will be returned under the Croatian Defence Ministry. Already in meaning... the higher amount of minimum pensions, depending on the length of participation in the defence of the Republic of Croatia in the fighting sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A national health protection strategy, i.e. systematic reviews, which is the most positive thing, especially when we mention the mortality of Croatian defenders where on average many younger people die than the rest of the population. Opening... to recognise the status of Croatian defenders and Croatian wartime wartime disableds, based on their disease and that they will have the right to achieve people who did not have, meaning due to the deadlines adopted by the HDZ government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Lowering the age limit for retirement, which also depends on the length of participation in the defence of the Republic of Croatia in the fighting sector, housing time limits, protected rights for members of the HVO and members of their families. I welcome the intention to equalise the rights of all Croatian defenders, any Croatian military, any HVO. In particular, this is good for a positive 82 thousand Croatian defenders who are unemployed and many more positive examples that you have talked about and will talk about by colleagues. However, these measures may result in positive results if they are consistently applied with the financial means provided for in your presentation. Through an analysis of your bill, I would draw attention to some of the procedures in the very creation of this law and in your very presentation of what you should have mentioned in my opinion, and in your address and in your proposal of the law that will be given by the Club... The bridge and individually through the debates we hope you will respect some of our proposals and will answer these questions. You forgot to mention that in addition to carrying out the lowest pensions, all other pension rights provided for in the new law will not apply to persons retired before the entry into force of this law. You also forgot to mention that this law will not apply to defenders who have exercised their rights under the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees, Police Officers and Authorised Officials whose pensions, although they are Croatian defenders and volunteers of the Homeland War, are far less due to the lack of certain provisions of the Croatian Defence Act, contrary to the principle of equality on which our legal system rests. It is also forgotten that the return of the monthly cash right of former supplies by the Croatian Ministry of Defence for unemployed Croatian defenders who are currently receiving a guaranteed minimum fee and are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy did not depend on this law. I would remind you that during Minister Matic, you yourself said that the unemployed defenders were essentially transferred from the Ministry of Croatian Defence here, and you were also able to return to the Ministry of Defence and compensation without the adoption of this law. In your address to defenders, both through the idea and through the media, you could hear your statement that the main objectives of the main law are to unite in one law all rights which are distributed in other legal areas, which is positive that Croatian defenders do not go from ministry to ministry and be in one place. Did you succeed, it will show time or changes and additions to some other laws that may harm the defender. I'm talking maybe because some laws, and I'd like to explain how they apply to Croatian defenders, and they're not in this law, and I'd like to remind you of a few of your legal solutions that don't go at the hands of your statement on the unification of all dispersive rights, and I hope it will be changed in the final proposal in the second reading is the whole law. The exercise of health and pension rights and rights based on physical damage shall be carried out under other signatures, not under this proposal. As the most important element you forgot about the defence population, it is mentioned that at the government meeting in Knin 4.8.2017, you changed the deadlines of all pension insurance rights and moved from 1.1.2018 to 1.1.2019 means a year no matter what the public debate is, it is still true that Croatian defenders know it. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has so far written down 1829 loans totalling EUR 208 million, slightly more than 3655 loans totalling 319.5 million, the written-off loans account for 49.95% of the total number of loans granted. A total of 67 loans and 1.8% of the total number of loans were paid. In view of the above mentioned information, this provision shall write down the rest of the credits so far unrecorded. If these 67 loans will be paid back, the 67 that have recovered their loans will be in an unequal position towards those to which the loans will be written off. And very important, the Croatian Defence Register, can you explain, we are for the survival of the Croatian Defence Register. Why take down the Croatian Defence Register? In front of the Most Club, we can tell that this registry of defenders is available, but that the register of aggressors on the Republic of Croatia has committed crimes. Is if there should be equality, if there should be a register of proud Croatian defenders, I see no reason why you should hide the register of aggressors on the Republic of Croatia. We propose keeping the legal solution so far regarding rights acquired, as you yourself have told the defenders and the victims of the HVO. However, we wonder whether the basic elements for the conclusion of the international contract are agreed in a satisfactory way so as not to result in unwanted consequences of international disputes that could cost the Republic of Croatia. Through further discussion, MOST will propose concrete legal solutions that are not covered by this proposal and by your work of pre-election promises. We find that proposed legal solutions to defenders and victims of the Homeland War could be found through sources of war damage payments by those who have committed aggression against the Republic of Croatia and who could serve as a financial source for the exercise of the rights of this bill. The Minister's question is why is it silenced that the overall assessment of direct and indirect damage to the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War for aggression so-called. Republika Srpska's, Serbia, Montenegro and JNA's armies amount to over 300 billion kuna, according to estimates by the Ministry of Labour and Social Care and State Audit for the census and assessment of war damage. We also believe through the debate that all the proposals are with your intention and the law and the effort that the ministry has made that we have one law that will unite the rights. I have also made some remarks if, I hope, you will accept them in the interest of all Croatian defenders of the foundation of the Croatian state who created the Republic of Croatia, the unity of all Croats and national minorities and, above all, the Serb national minority. At the end of what I would tell you, what hurt the most Croatian defenders was the abolition of the right when dignity was arrested, pride, when it was located, arrested, transferred Croatian defenders, accused them, and therefore the biggest deviations in Croatian society appeared and therefore Croatian defenders felt the most about what was happening and especially what was happening at the time the Croatian state was robbed of INA, Telecom, the sale of banks, everything that happened in my city, the money for the weapons for which it was intended, for the defence of the Republic and the Cetinski region went into the hands of the tycoons. I believe it is never resolved that the Croatian defender and you and the Government and we parliamentary representatives can pass a fair law to Croatian defenders, respecting each other. '91. He didn't ask anyone who was in the SDP, who was in HDZ, who was a Serb. That is why I am saddened by the fact as in the conversation with Croatian defenders that more time has devoted itself to the 11th Croatian defenders than the criminals who have erected their monuments in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore your duty to stop your coalition partner, Milorad Pupovac, who compared General Janko Bobetko, who was a member of the first Sisak Partizan squad, as compared him to war criminals Ratko Mladic, Babic and others and Dokmanovic. This must not be allowed in the Croatian state to disembark a man who is now president of Republika Srpska, a Chetnik, Vukic sends messages about the Croatian Law on Defence. They are the only thing that ministers can do to make it worth all these 400 billion kunas at the expense of the Croatian State and to achieve these rights, our defenders and other rights. Once again, Minister, I know you've had a noble intention and you've put a lot of effort into this law. I have personally participated through the board and I hope that together we will find the best solution to the status of our defenders, to those most responsible for this country, to the defenders of Croatian nationality, to Serbian nationality, to the SDP, to either the HDZ or to any other party. Croatian defenders, together we fought for our country, together we fight for the future of our children, stop what is bad and fight for our children to survive here. That's the most important thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50606	The exposure of his colleagues, Bulja, caused five replicas. First came the honorary colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50607	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a brief question, in the context of the war damage that you've discussed commenting on Prime Minister Vukic's statements directly entangled in this law and threatening to pass 500 laws that would harm Croatian defenders, is that the end of this diplomatic, or in some way offensive that wants to prevent this law? Will some other countries also have objections in the neighborhood and will they pressure this law? So how do you comment that here's a self-proclaimed Chetnik duke meddling in our laws and directly threatening? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50608	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50609	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, the war damage that has been done is occupied by a third of the Republic of Croatia and we have many deaths, both Croatian defenders and civilians, damaged and that is what is worst. However, the Croatian Government, instead of fighting for these damages, was exclusively courting and engaged in locations, transfers of the most prominent Croatian sons, so that today, Croatian defenders, the parliamentary representative, would speak and compare with these aggressors to our general, our General Bobetko. That's not allowed. We as a state must fight that there is no legal jurisdiction what the Croatian government has done over Croatian defenders,.../The speaker does not understand. They must not remain a hunting ground and judge Croatian aggressors, it has never happened in history. I think the defense attorneys would be here, too, if the Secretary of Defense were here on this side. We must not allow the agreement to be signed by the Croatian government, with Serbs, with the EU in negotiations to miss them and the jurisdiction of Croatian defenders to have Serbs. Croatian diplomacy must be fought for money and war damage, 45 billion euros made by Serbia, Montenegro and part of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. This way I repeat again, we should thank the people of Serbian nationality who stood with us in the trench and who defended the Republic, I personally have them in our place, and we should highlight that. This isn't hate speech, but we can't let the Chetnik Duke, i.e. The assistants of the Chetnik dukes, the watermen Vukic and other Shessel's assistants manage the laws and how we should write. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50610	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50611	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bulj, therefore, I fully agree with you that this legislative proposal should be supported and, of course, commended and resolutely commended by the ministry, all defence associations and all those members of the political parties and all those involved in preparing such a legal proposal and, of course, we expect the ministry to respect these remarks that we will make during this first reading debate to change. This law is important, this is a respected colleague Djakic speaking on behalf of the board as he extends rights not only to members of HRVI but to all defenders and it is very important and it is important in the law to write about the defence family, you emphasized it and that is Mr Bulj, very important because these families have been through since the war on here everything that Croatian defenders have been going through. And today they pass along with them, and their sicknesses, and all that plague them. However, the essence of my replica is reflected about this resolute ministry, the Croatian government must really do everything to make sure that this is not just a dead letter left on paper, to find the means, that all the provisions of this law are respected and what it would particularly like to point out, and I hope that in the future we will all in some way control this whole story, and especially not just this ministry, but all the ministries that are tasked with this being a transparent procedure, that this law is accompanied by an orderly system, that what happened in the past does not happen to us that some of us who do not deserve the rights come, and those who should exercise those rights cannot come to them. And just one remark, here you may be able to comment on article 121 of this law, I think there was an observation where the minister decides that by his own autonomous decision, he can decide on one-time assistance to the defenders. I don't think such provisions in the law are good, let them be commissions, let them go through some procedure, don't say the minister has bad intentions, but it can happen that someone's misreading it. So that's one of the provisions of the law that we should pay attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50612	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50613	Well, I would agree with you, but this law provides for one more thing. So what's very important is the empowerment of the Croatian Defence Ministry's regional units. So decentralisation of the Croatian Defence Ministry on the ground means that people who are in underdeveloped areas, people who simply do not have the opportunity to exercise their right, must come from Dalmatia, Slavonia to Zagreb and that it means better to decentralisation human potentials, on the ground and to monitor the possibilities of all defenders. or the inability to exercise their rights would certainly make it much easier, not to be the Ministry of Defense, in that work it is also decentralised but not sufficiently. Many people are instructed to seek their rights in Zagreb while they are received by one secretary, another, third, in this law mentions this decentralisation of human resources, I think it is very important that they exercise their rights. As far as this law is concerned, it's in the first reading, in the talks we're having right now, there's no reason for the minister not to hear it, in fact it's an obligation, I hope that in the second reading of all of this possibly worse, this legislation will be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50614	Third replica, dear colleague of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50615	Your Honor. Col. Bulj, you were talking about the bad things of this law, you pointed out the positive ones, and you talked about the dignity of Croatian defenders, you talked about how many of them die before the time and I think it's not just about the relationship between the government and the official Croatian policy towards the Homeland War, to those who are aggressors to the Republic of Croatia, it's not just about the prime minister keeping quiet about the statements of his coalition partner Milorad Pupovac, the problem is that let's say the public and citizens have some negative impression of Croatian defenders because many of those who did not deserve defence rights have achieved it. And it's certainly necessary to ask, you know how much I appreciate you for your contribution to the Homeland War, I was a child then, so at the time of the Homeland War of 11 years, and I appreciate all the people who have made a real contribution, but I think we should particularly deal with those who have earned rights and have not earned those rights. Also, it can't happen to us, you were talking about how some people paid off their loans, so you mentioned 67 loans paid off, while other people got those credits paid off. There cannot be some kind of inequality, every man and every Croatian defender if the defender really is the same, and we also had a situation in this High House, there are some people who used the Ministry of Defence for privileged loans, building apartments and then going to bribe journalists. Those who used defence rights should be strictly sanctioned because they only damaged the state but destroyed the dignity of the true Croatian defenders and the team should be put to rest because then the entire Croatian public, young generations, I am a professor of history and I taught children about the Homeland War From that young generation then they have a negative impression of Croatian defenders. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50616	Comrade Thunderbolt, look how many of you you are. 18 seconds, not much. A fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50617	Yes, the Homeland War is sacred to all, we all have our own ways of war. I personally have my own war route as a defender, you could show, as well as the minister, as well as everyone here defends. But those who used, that loan, I think these 67 returned, probably, these others were incapacitated... the terms, but the fact is that these rights must be evened out in this case when you mentioned 67 people who returned the loan and I believe the minister will find that solution to this 67. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fact that many also built apartments from some of the funds subsidized by the Ministry of Defence, that and because of the announcement, journalists attacked it. I believe that the Ministry of Croatian Defence, exclusively this law writes for people who have been in the Homeland War, who feel the consequences in any way and of course to protect the dignity of the Homeland War and that the Homeland War is the foundation of the Croatian state and most important to be in history, you are a historian, and when you lecture, the truth about the Homeland War, that this should be valued. I forgot to tell people who were self-initiated like Petar Malbaš and many others made documentary films without the support of the state, that the state was very important to the truth about the Homeland War, and not that the Prime Minister Plenkovic did not answer the question he himself asked about the case of his coalition partner's statement, that the truth was being reversed, that the aggressor was being glorified, and that Croatian defenders, as in the case of the dead, 11 Kosovoers, were being told about them all summer. I therefore believe that we should work as hard as possible on the truth about the Croatian soldier who was magnificent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50618	Thank you. 4 replicas, respected colleague of Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50619	Dear colleague Bulj, I'm glad you said, what is actually the position of our club and the position of many defenders, which is that the defence registry should remain public. Croatian defenders have nothing to be ashamed of and if they have nothing, they should have dignity and as you said you would introduce a category of participants in the Homeland War, because it is only an honor. It's an honor to be in that register. Also, I'm glad you mentioned, because it's time to say there's a registry of aggressors. Never when we were at war could we imagine that one Satnimirovic would one day be an honorary parliamentary representative. A party member who is still part of the ruling structure and holds your authority, and in fact, around for Serbian media speaks against this law. What we need to know is that no Croatian soldier has ever set foot on the ground of the Republic of Serbia, but we know who was the aggressor and where they were and who they fought against. And for that reason, I believe that the defence register should remain public, but there should also be a registry of aggressors, in which it should be all those who are citizens of this country today, but were also those who raped and walked the streets of Vukovar and their victims, still looking at them around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50620	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50621	I fully agree that you need to register the defenders, because the fact, as you mentioned, is that in Vukovar, persons who, women who have been raped and tortured, are today viewed by their testimony, statements, people of their rapists and their executioners, therefore there are none, even according to their testimony to work in state institutions. Therefore, I believe that the registry should also come out, that we have nothing to fear about and publish, except for equality. And I insist on that, and on behalf of the club, what I said was that register done. We have nothing to protect the criminals, we have nothing to protect the Republic of Serbia, to judge Croatian defenders, when they enter the EU, that the Croatian state, that diplomacy allows them, we cannot allow it. The Croatian defender, you said well, did not step foot in either Nis in Belgrade or beyond its borders or millimeters. Except for the international agreements in our neighbouring country here. Therefore, where Croats live, the HVO has done its job in defence. It is exclusively necessary to insist on registering those because of these particular rape victims and other victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50622	And the last replica, dear colleague Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50623	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bully, in your opening statement, you have troubled Minister Bear's statement, because you said that in one of these laws everything is covered. He didn't say that. I, as I recall in the opening statement, said that those rights which were distributed by a number of ministries, by the Ministry of Education and Social Policy, the defenders, so institutions such as HZMO and some others, were actually trying to bring it together in this law. And when we were together in this government, you know that the debate under this law, that is, the preparation of this law began a year, almost a year ago. It included a large number of working groups, interested public and, if you have seen, there were some 510, 512 remarks you spoke of, and the minister is aware that it is not actually possible to unite everything. It's not possible for a series of reasons, remember then that we were under surveillance of an excessive deficit. There was then talk of a unique compensation center, if you remember, so some things couldn't stand out. I know that the minister and the whole team have been spending a lot of time on the fact that this is exactly the kind of stuff that comes together especially in supply if you remember what was the initial capsule and for the very protest in front of the Ministry of Defence that passed through the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth at the time. Therefore, it is difficult to make one complementarity in the whole of which you speak picturesquely, it would look like this if the Croatian Defence Department had all the charts, medical records of all the defenders, which is not possible. There will always be some things that will not be possible covered by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50624	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50625	Thank you very much. I've made observations and possibilities for improvement. The intention of this law is evident to unite all rights of Croatian defenders and that we must all participate in this as much as possible, and here as a member of the board I supported this law to go to first reading. I see no reason not to speak and not to clarify and seek the possibilities and improvements of the unification of the Law on Croatian Defence because the fact is that defenders who have achieved unemployment benefits are simply brought into a much more difficult position than when they were under the Ministry of Croatian Defence and that is a fact and that is a positive one. So we're talking about 82,000 people who are unemployed. I repeat again, all rights and I cited positive examples and I did not list them all of these laws, but let's say those anomalies that can be corrected, first reading, if it's possible to correct in this first reading or in the second that until the second reading to correct, if possible. This is our club's proposal and we will go out in further debates with individual suggestions to correct this law if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50626	We move on to the second debate, it's the Living Wall and SNAGA Club and the esteemed Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50627	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today is the Law on Croatian Defence, a new law and, at the very beginning, it is important to say that it is a complex problem that exists almost in all countries of the world and throughout history. In view of this, in this part of the presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives, I would like to say something in general about this law, and then, through individual discussions, we will also say more about the members of the law themselves. Above all, the most important thing to say is that war veterans deserve respect and help, and above all, families of the dead and missing and wartime disabled. They need social recognition. They need to be given material rights. That's the way it's always been and that's the way it's supposed to be, there's no doubt about it. However, the issue of war veterans is often disputed not only with us, but also with us. The first question is the amount of material aid given to veterans because it is always problematic whether the budget will remain sustainable after these rights are granted means the issue of sustainability of the budget. The second question is problematic, it is possible to give them privileges that violate social equality, and the big problem is that one part of the defender is always dissatisfied with whatever rights you give them, meaning whatever you give them, they will always protest, rebel and seek more. The problem stems from the existence of governments, it is known which, trying to instrumentalise defenders for their political goals, and what was best seen through the work of individual defence associations. On the other hand, some governments fear the defenders because they are afraid of social unrest and then sometimes give them more rights than is necessary. That's why it happens sometimes that a part of the public is turning against war veterans, and that's a very bad consequence. What rights do Croatian defenders have today? Some say small, and if we look retrospectively over the past periods because there were still countries before the independent Croatia that gave rights to war veterans, then those rights are already very good. Let's just say there weren't any war veterans' ministries before, that's not what happened. This is the first time in history that Croatia has one such ministry. When you read the roof laws on war veterans, and I've given myself a hard time so I read them at the NN were published, let's just say that many categories of war veterans that exist today didn't exist were never recognized. Let's say the prisoners of war, whoever surrendered had no right in the Austro-Hungarian army, only if he was wounded during the capture, if he was captured healthy, there was no law. It's not like that today. In the time of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, defence rights were recognised only by those who died or had consequences six weeks after the end of the war, six weeks that was it. Someone could have died 50 days after the end of the war from a severe wound he was not granted any right. Today, rights to defenders are recognised for all those who died on 31.12.In '97, and if he committed suicide, he was admitted with today. So if someone committed suicide today, he is admitted to being a dead Croatian defender, he has that right. So that's where we see a certain progress again. Also after World War II when these famous partisans were and let's not forget that today we give them privileged pensions, war pensions and other rights. Parents couldn't get any help if they had another son. Widows couldn't get any help if they got remarried. Those were laws, very strict. Today they're talking about how they have all the rights, they're not. These rights today are better rights than they used to be. And now the question is, so the situation has changed for the better but still the question of whether it may have gone too far. Who in Croatia today has the status of defenders? 506,000 people plus HVO. How is that possible? So we weren't able to defend I don't know Petrinja and we had 506,000 soldiers allegedly, defense attorneys. Well, with 506,000 troops, Croatia would have defeated any neighbouring country within weeks if it were such a force. Germany's 6th Army with 300 thousand men broke through hundreds of miles of eastern battlefield and won Stalingrad and we with 506,000 defenders were unable to defend a few kilometers of battlefields. And why is that? Here, let's say the Croatian defender was the one who was in the military until 30 June 1996. So June 30, '96. Now let's open up the wikipedia, the encyclopedia and watch since the Homeland War. Homeland war lasts until '95. It says clearly in the encyclopedia that all the fights ended in November '95. years even when fighting in Bosnia is included and we have a right to 30. 06. '96. A year. What war was waged in June '96. years and where? So that's not what it was. The war lasted until '95. Not until '96. And that's where you should make it clear. You are interested in what rights do Serbian defenders who fought in Croatia and who live in Serbia today? They have rights until April of '92. The year, until April of '92. We'll be back in '96. It's also a problem that on the one hand we have defenders of disabled people who have all the rights, huge receipts of 20, 30 thousand kuna, some of whom are rich on that, on the other hand we have defenders who have no rights, can't even get a job. They've got 200 people with disabilities, 300 kunas. It's also something that, as it's called, creates dissension in public. The public suspects and it is known that certain disabled persons have been made under pressure either politically, either under open threats that there are false defenders and people who, and false disabled, are people who are in better physical condition than a healthy man, or their peers, but there is no revision in this matter. That would be a good step for the public to welcome once and for all to ask a little question. However, we see that defenders can only be added to the list but to subtract no, the process should be two-way. Of course, someone here mentioned social inequality, so I'm not saying they have to be civilian and military disabled in the same rank, but the civilian disability has 1250kn of disability, no help in employment, and he's been sentenced for life to be a second-class citizen. We hear that the pensions of people born in 1962 and later will be reduced by 27%. We hear that the debt to hospitals has grown to 3 billion kuna, we hear that the government owes government officials 8 billion kuna, that the debts of the state are terrible. We know that the pension system is unsustainable, that there are 45% of pension funds missing each month, but we're increasing pensions now, we're re-priority pensions and we're still giving them. ... We'll give the veterans in BiH what we don't have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is this story about the fighting sector, here we see that in this Law on Croatian defenders now trying to divide those who were in the combat and non-combat sectors which is commendable but you look, please, you have people who were the entire Homeland War I don't know in Rijeka or Pula and they have a recognition of the fighting sector, acknowledge the fighting sector, in Pula. He never left Pula or I don't know Koprivnica. He was not known in the crisis headquarters of Podravka,... in some ministry, anti-aircraft protection I don't know in Poreč, where there's never been an attack and it's the battle sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that the battle sector, I don't know? I'll tell you the truth, I was at war in '92. For years, we had positions at the entrance of the town of Gospić, a key point of entry I don't know of Serbian tanks, you know how many of us were in position, four miles away? 35. One platoon held four kilometers. We could have passed not Serbian tanks, but a herd of elephants could have gone as far as our hollows and defensive lines were. And it's already made me angry and now it's making me angry again when I hear we have 506,000 defenders and a fighting sector on a dangerous front in Senj. This should be clearly separated because of the dignity of the fighting sector itself, but also because money should be directed more towards those who need it. We know that some members of the crisis control boards in companies like Podravka bought cars based on defense rights. Was that what they needed to be allowed by the state? We know, for example. that Vukovar defended during the battle of '91. In 1800 people, it was a maximum number, today 7,000 defenders. Did Vukovar defend the 7,000 defenders? History says it's not. Official statistics say it is. For that reason, what we want to say as a club is that one should draw a line. Once we need to draw the line, we want this law to go the way it is, to put a number of amendments on it, to make the most perfect and the best possible and then to say enough once. It's over now. And not that we're going to have a situation, we're going to have to guarantee you, that this law will be passed and that then they'll be dissatisfied again, and here's the law that hasn't even been passed yet, everyone allegedly commended it, and now they have to be defenders of the constitutional category, now they have to go to the Constitution. The constitution is, yes, a piece of paper that can be changed if necessary as anyone remembers. Once again, part of defense organizations, not satisfied with any material rights, they want political power. Here they want to ban the European Night of Theatre on November 18 as if it were some village party that offends that date. We have defenders who threaten ministers, threaten the government, threaten the state, so how far does that go? Is that exactly how the whole thing needs to be politicized and allowed? So, I repeat once again, the rights of the defender, yes, the special rights of the dead, the missing, the disabled, let's make order, let's make a law that will be sustainable in relation to the budget and let's go after that conclusion. I think the Croatian public expects this story to end once and stop any further politicisation of this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50628	Thank you very much. I'm not going to comment on what you said, but I have to say something, and it's not this law that's the first one to divide into the combat and non-combat sectors, it came up in the list of defenders, so it's not that, here's clear as a single correction may not be a misunderstanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50629	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Please, if you'd like to replicate me to do so from your seat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50630	Okay. Let's start with the replicas, obviously there's a lot of them who want to replicate. The first is Honorable Representative Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50631	I thought there was some hope for these young heads here and today I'm totally out of it, I'm having all these illusions. First of all, if there's a Mr. Doctor of Science, I've studied military history, I've been three armies before, he mentions some of that former state and right in those countries. He didn't mention a single sentence at all and the rights of NOB participants who occupied this country in '45. year, you have their president, Dusan Pekic, who has declared... The year he said we have 300 thousand false Partisan pensions in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happened to that failed state? That failed experiment you didn't mention at all, what are the genes of today? You mention half a million Croatian defenders, so now you've got data from here that almost 50% of these people still work on the minimal in other people. You still have 18% who have no rights and you mention HVO. You don't have the right to talk about it, you don't know. ... Croatia defends itself in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are no brigades below 500... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have no idea what you're talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's scary. That non-information of yours, I don't know who you are? You were in Miss '92. In the year, I was there in '91, and you were there if you might have signed the UNPA zone, and there you ran one sitzkrieg, there wasn't an army on the line, the Croats organized themselves, they started peace weapons, and when you list all the people who fought for war, it was one gene, we were creating an army in walking. The last Croatian soldier in BiH died on 19.10 at 437 at Banja Luka and if it wasn't for those people there, you wouldn't be sitting here today talking nonsense, it's terrifying, first get information. What's your malice here, you're a pure urban racist. Only one piece of information, '97, 61% of the people killed in HVO are from BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50632	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec. Uh-huh, sorry, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50633	Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Glasovic injured Article 7(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament declare it '45. Someone was occupied, as MP Glasovic swore to respect the Constitution and the laws, the Constitution clearly states that Croatia is based among other things on ZAVNOH decisions, so '45. It wasn't an occupation, it was a release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50634	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bunjac, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50635	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Glasnović, I really don't know what you're talking about. You come here every day with the same story, the Red Kummers, the illustrations, the UDBA, the chickens in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50636	Comrade Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50637	You don't even know how to tell a man, you can't keep your mouth shut while someone's talking, you're screaming aggressive, you're taking pictures with guns, you're shooting judges, so who can talk to such a man about anything. Come on, before you start criticizing someone, please take your speeches, you have on YouTube to see what you're talking about and after that I think you'll understand that any debate with you is without an object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50638	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50639	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bunjac, you spoke about the population of Croatian defenders and 505,000 of them, but you did not look at the brochure that you received clearly about how many of them were in the existence of the Croatian Army and Croatian police. If you had a look at it, and even in the law in which it all says it, this brochure clearly shows this chart, how many defenders are in which period in the Croatian Army units. Well, it says here that over four years it was only 7948. And up to 6 months was 75417. And then we go from six months to one year, 42078, one year, one and a half years 20036. So at different times, mobilizations and demobilizations took place. So they dictated the subject of divorce and dismissal, since it was '92. the year was already a demobilization. So it's '94. Again or '95. There was a big mobilization. In the meantime, it was set up by the Domobran... That's where the new force came in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, you should know that before you start commenting on some rights, about the number of participants, and about who today has any rights big or small. Most of it, as you're told, does not exercise its rights, but has their right to work because they have returned to their jobs. And that in the chart of this all depicted to you in plain, clear, unequivocal terms. How many pensions, how many employees, by one type, by another, how many pensions by death, by dead, by suicide. It's all written to you. Just take a reasonable look at it and you'll have an answer to all your questions and doubts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50640	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50641	Thank you very much, Mr. Djakic. You have your opinion, you have your statistics, but most of the Croatian public disagree with you. People believe, even Croatian defenders themselves, that they were not 500, 600 thousand. Now we hear there's going to be more of that number, there's going to be more of them. Plus HVO, I repeat, plus now again these privileged pensions that veterans from past wars have. How much further can Croatia finance? That's the question that concerns the public. No one I believe is that in Croatia there are 1% of citizens who are against being disabled, that the dead members of their families get rights. But they know very well, they know from their nearest neighborhood, that there are people who have acquired rights, and they don't deserve them. That there are disabled people, who are in excellent physical condition and have recognised 100% disability. I believe you've heard of cases like this. And that's what you should, in any case, question that number. My personal opinion, that the status of Croatian defender should end with the date of the Dayton Agreement on 14 December1995 and no more rights, number of days, fighting sectors since '96. I don't admit it. Who's in all the states of the world. As the war continues, so long as participation is recognised, and when the war is over from that moment on, since the signing of the truce, they no longer have the rights. Which is why it's allowed, therefore, to '96. For years, he entered the Homeland War, and in Croatia there were no fights. It is a policy that I hope the minister will give me an answer, and you, if not, will consider submitting an amendment to that part of the law on Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50642	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50643	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My esteemed colleague, Bunjac, you spoke on behalf of the club, and I must confess that I expected a higher level of at least from you and the club. Certain things are difficult to say in 2 minutes everything you said, and when you spoke of historical things about the Germans, the Austrians, veterans, certain wars, then you mentioned participants of Serb members in the Homeland War. I guess you meant the aggressors back in the Homeland War. They were no members of the Homeland War, and you said their rights were granted until '92. A year. However, you forget or deliberately forget, and this reminds me of some civil society that had the same rhetoric that you're talking about, in fact, that during the Homeland War, many of the people sitting in this House were occupied by 1*3 territories, 1/3. What the minister said today, and when he talked about those five hundred five thousand people, today it's about 449, he said not all rights are being exercised. Seventy-eight thousand of them, as far as I'm concerned, don't bring down any rights at all. So they are spoken of as participants, not those who exercise those rights. Because you asked for the sustainability of the budget, if it's possible to maintain that budget. When he spoke about the law, he spoke about the measures and spoke precisely about what the measures were and what the financial effects and their projections were in 2018 and 2019 respectively. He even mentioned... form. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the funds themselves, I agree that we should save on everything. On these things no, but in a four-year term, trust me civil society associations, honor exceptions and all who do a good job, which the government, or executive power cannot do, and therefore civil society associations in one term, trust me to spend between a billion and 200 billion and 600 million kuna, often the funds that could be spent much, much better than for some... projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50644	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50645	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of course, they were not participants in any positive sense, they were aggressors, they raised a rebellion against a state that gained international recognition, and on that side, in any case, they have no positive role. The second thing today is that the Serbian government feels that a positive role existed, so they give them war rights, rights similar to those of the defenders, but again I repeat only until April of '92, and in particular there is no until '96. Or I don't know what years to get rights. So I repeat once again, the defenders need to be given all rights. I don't mind having the defense attorneys 100% right, so unfortunately, 78% if it's real defenders, there's no right. Those rights should be given to them. I am not a supporter of those who feel that everything needs to be re-valorized, that everything should be erased, that everything should be forgotten. No, so we advocate that Croatian defenders have absolutely every right, but those who deserve it. I guarantee you that a large number of those supposed defenders on that list have never seen a first line of battlefields in their lives, nor has he ever seen an enemy soldier, nor has he ever seen a dead man, nor has he ever dropped a grenade on his head, he doesn't know what it is, he watched it on TV. And today he is a Croatian defender and perhaps someone else who deserves help earlier has problems, perhaps these civilian disabled people are taking away their rights since there are not enough funds left in the budget for their problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50646	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Steve Culei.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50647	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. A colleague of Bunjac, you are a Croatian defender, your colleague Ivan Pernar from your club Jasenovac is a genocide, Storm is an ethnic cleansing that is one item. You were in Gospić, which I was in, of course, in '91. in which many were in a different period of time. During a different period of time, there were also different needs of battlefields depending on threats, and units that opposed the dangers were created. The 500 thousand defenders you're referring to go through the average, through my unit, the Special Police of Vukovar-Srijemska went through 500 people. One day, one day ten, one 100, one year, some were from the beginning to the end, I happen to be among the teams who were from the beginning to the end who had not had a day of sick leave, who had given 36 layoffs in that time. I mean, if it wasn't for those 500 thousand defenders guarding that line of battlefields and BiH wouldn't be sitting here today discussing this. We might be discussing possible benefits some other group would get. Perhaps some colleagues sitting here wouldn't have anything to do with Croatia if it wasn't for this 500 grand. So what I'm saying is, I support you in one part when you say the combat and non-combat sectors and I thought it was weird how someone could get the fighting sector, and it wasn't in combat threats. But then I remember that some chef over there on Velebit in some backpack brought food and that he also went all that war route and risked his own head the same way. When you say disabled civilian and military, the hand is a hand, the leg is a leg, but someone has lost a leg or arm in the depths of enemy terrain and bled for another two days in corn or 15 days as a Jurcan member of the Hos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50648	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50649	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Culej, we respect your participation in the Homeland War, unlike your colleagues, we voted against removing immunity from you as a Croatian defender, seven times decorated if you only heard well. It is true that there would be no Croatia without these enthusiasts of young people who went to the Homeland War practically with two apples in their pocket and three bullets to stand up to the incredible fighting force that the entire Southeast Europe of coffee was afraid of. But I guarantee you, I believe that you are among these Croatian defenders, that Croatian defenders are not seeking special privileges, there are some who are asking, but I believe that you are not looking for them, just as I am not looking for them, even though I was a Croatian defender and I am decorated by President Tudjman but only wants a better state. In fact, we would all be overjoyed if we had one well-ordered, good Croatian state, and if it were there, I believe that this whole story about Croatian defenders would actually be somewhat secondary. This is what Croatian defenders want, which is what unfortunately has not been achieved in the past and for this reason we have the situation that we have that all segments of society feel neglected and disproved, and so among them also those who created the same Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50650	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir FELAK.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50651	Dear Mr. Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, so my replica, I must admit that you challenged me by saying that there were Serbian defenders in Croatia. You later explained in your response to one replica that you didn't think so. And in general, in these answers to the replicas that your colleagues have given so far, you have explained some of your views, or you have made them a little bit different. If you'd said so right away, I probably wouldn't have replicated it. You have the right to your opinion on the fighting sector and this, and I would agree with that. I'm part of the '91 Homeland War. I was demobilized at the end of the 1st month of '92. the years when, after the conclusion of the example, it was certain that it was quite different to be on the front line when there were examples or this first time when the Croatian Army was formed and, in fact, in the 1990s, Croatia defended the police and, in parallel with the defence, the National Guard Assembly was formed and after that, the Croatian Army. But I can't agree with you at all to relativize the fall of a Petrinja who at the time defended very few people not because there were no 500 thousand, clearly there were none, they passed through the Croatian army during all these 5, 6 years of the Homeland War. So let's not mix the pears and apples out of it. Unfortunately, we lost one third of our territory because we didn't have an organized army, when we organized it, then we freed the Croatian state. And one more thing about only this 18th November and European Night of Theatre. All honours to the theatre, all honours to the European Night of Theatre but November 18th is a special day for Croatia, for all those who truly and truly love Croatia. And I don't see any problem that the European Night of Theatre is celebrated any other day of the year but not quite November 18 when we remember all those victims of Vukovar and Skabrnje and all the other victims who died in the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50652	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50653	Thank you very much. So in this part, we understood each other, it was only an interpretation if I put myself in a awkward position so that the short story Serbs were aggressors to Croatia, that part we solved. And this second part about the fall of Petrinja, it fell because too few people were simply engaged, so many other cities fell. If there were as many defenders as mentioned today, that there were 5 thousand I believe most cities and settlements in the Republic of Croatia would have been defended. As regards the Day of European Theatres itself, apart from the Croatian army that defended the Croatian border, which has preserved Croatia more and enabled it to be state-run than Croatian culture? Study a little history, I don't know Croatian Mothers, Croatian institutions, fighting for Croatian. Culture can in no way offend war victims. However, just culture can provide an additional framework for their respected, can give one synergy, can be made, can be adapted to the program for that day. But go like this so that defense associations determine who will not be known holidays in Croatia, which will be marked or not, it is simply a prenormisation in my opinion. It is the demand for some rights that no association in Croatia should have, or social category. There are some things that need to be left to the public, to leave things to the citizens, because each of us has its own brains, so they'll decide whether to go to a play or not, whether it offends her or not. In my particular case, I think there's no reason for anyone to feel offended by the European Theatre Day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50654	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Josip Djakic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State and Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. We have before us a proposal for a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families which is like the latest version that is comprehensive. After a detailed analysis carried out at the Ministry of Croatian Defence and in collaboration with roof associations derived from the Homeland War with 100% disabled, all associations were involved in working groups or their legal advisers or their best members who understand the needs, who know the law, who spent days and hours and hours in this law to produce the best version that would be most worthy of opportunities and time. We all know that by analyzing the state that was found through legal norms and forms, it was not satisfactory because it was not appropriate for both time and opportunity and that it had to be attached to the creation of this new law. To begin with, the HDZ Club will support this law in this first reading and we have no objections, though. We want him to really be a strong support and recognition to all those who have given the Homeland of Croatia their best. There, as some call it a privilege that I would not call privilege but privilege is even an offensive thing for us Croatian defenders, and even the club of representatives of HDZ does not call it that, we say the acquired rights of Croatian defenders who deserve it because everyone had the opportunity, everyone had a duty, everyone had the obligation. The question is who wanted it and who didn't want it. The question is who could or couldn't. And those who couldn't be called minors in defense of their country. And those who didn't need women in the Homeland War, they are indicated that they apply equally to both women and minors as well as to all others. So that these doubts should absolutely not be placed as something that is not covered by the law. It was thought that the deadline for obtaining the status of Croatian defenders who, when the register of Croatian defenders was introduced and when 501 006 was introduced, had today grown to 505,000 and something, had certainly not been definitively final since a certain population had neglected to take confirmations at all and not to present or ask them to enroll in their unique parent records, their course or to change and take a new military book of the Republic of Croatia in order to have been entered from when until they were members of the troops, from when to when and when they received certain recognitions or acts or promotions. This is all in the new Croatian military books, as well as in the records of the Defence Office. It was therefore necessary to enable this category of people to re-apply to the requirements in order to obtain in administrative procedures what was disabled in one part. It was then thought that after 18 years, enough time had passed to record all those involved, but unfortunately it was not true and it had to be reopened and decided on who was involved in the Homeland War. The analysis also showed that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who were lucky and who did not die in the Homeland War are doing well and are raising their families on their own, that they have almost no rights other than honorary fire and subsidisation. This is what the Croatian defender has today, but this law significantly changes that attitude and introduces those things called early retirement, as well as the evaluation and score of their participation in the Homeland War, and you heard that only 7,000 and some people were over 4 years in the role of the defence of the Republic of Croatia. It is a minimum number that we mention, that it was mostly those who were six months, a year, I don't think we have to doubt that there was a rise or release from the Croatian military or the Croatian police. There was a reserve everywhere that was used at a given time and demobilized at a given time. That is why there are these oscillations in both numbers and never 505,000 were in office and under one command to be used in all parts of the territory of the Republic of Croatia that were threatened, from the east to Montenegro, never. And it is a delusion that you are constantly expanding and which is presented as a mantra in order to defile Croatian defenders again. Well, isn't it enough to go through the entire time of the words that were not appropriate to the population of Croatian defenders? This law really restores dignity to Croatian defenders as well as their material and existential rights. Through clear definitions presented to all MPs and the entire Croatian public, with great effort that I have emphasized by the Association of Homeland War, in cooperation with the professional services of the ministry, with all the resolutions of the Croatian Defence Ministry, with all the portfolios of the Ministry of Finance, Pension System and Labour, with social care, all participated in the drafting of this law by harmonising their standards. And the mantra that came out that this law would cost 25 billion kuna was also a spin that wanted to blacken Croatian defenders in front of the Croatian public. Even today, when these same mantras are repeated that we are not all in Croatia alike, how some have certain rights and how some are valued by one commission, the other by the other. Yes, this law clearly states that the single body of art will be distributed to Croatian defenders only for the needs of Croatian defenders because I have long since said that experts have clearly said that they cannot apply the same rules to explosive wounds, to all the injuries they have suffered even to the psychological problems that Croatian defenders have at the same time with those civilian victims regardless of what kind. And there are seven species. 7 types of disability exist through Croatian laws and regulations, and therefore I warn you that we are not talking about it but only about what we know clearly, what we clearly perceive and what we want to accomplish. Yes, Croatian defenders are a category of the most deserved as well in the Constitution, along with Croatian citizens who created freedom, sovereignty and prosperity in this country. Peace. We still need to experience prosperity. But there are things that are actually questionable in some people, which is in Article 1 of this law when it is spoken in paragraph C., which is a Croatian defender from the Homeland War and it is written in this article: "Croatian defender from the Homeland War defended and defended the Republic of Croatia within internationally recognised borders against the armed aggression committed by Serbia, Montenegro, JNA and the paramilitary troops from BiH, with the help of a large number of Serb national minorities in the Republic of Serbia organised and led by a large Serb policy." I don't know why some so-called so-called. In my opinion, statesmen and former Chetnik dukes are self-invited, why are they bothered by this very article and that very definition. Well, that's the historical truth the Hague court has confirmed. Condemned, condemned and led by such a policy, and why it is in Croatian laws is a dispute or interference. Who's got a problem with that? Do we really want the truth again, as it is after the 2nd World War to be only on the side of one or to be distorted and to be repeated and faked? We can't let that happen and we can't let that happen. Of course, there is clear, if it is a large number of Serbian, Serb national minority members. So we can say that there was a clear indicator of the 12.5.1991 referendum, which included 379159 people who put themselves on the list and voted for Krajina, i.e. for secession and association or for the Republika Srpska Krajina, which was more called 369991 or 99.80%. At the time of the pleas, it does not mean that they were enemy soldiers, that they were part of a paramilitary unit or other units. Of the 66,000 were reported by the Serbian Krajina army as an aggression against the Republic of Croatia. That's true, we can't get away from her. That's the report they wrote, the so-called so-called. The government of Republika Srpska. In this law, if we were no longer harassing ourselves with what is actually described, I would like this law, which is truly comprehensive and thorough, which significantly and to the greatest extent possible, improves the status of Croatian defenders, but complements both the disabled and the victims of what they had disabled. I would like, in a joint consensus, as was the case with the Committee on War Veterans and in this first reading, of course, with observations if anyone has them, to bring such a bill to the benefit of Croatian defenders, so that there will be no more politicisation and political bickering about what they gave the defenders or who is their mother and who is their stepmother. When all MPs raise their hands, we have no one to worship. So we all decided that it would be so, that it would be in a function, opportunities that today the state has a little bit better and growing in GDP and that we believe that it should be confused for a long-term period so that the defenders have their own security, that they would have their peace and that they could think and use those rights in their lives that are not even a little bit light and that certainly when they are a good part of them or a large part of them who are jobless, and I think that 26000 who are out of work and can no longer get a job, and this law allows them to be compensated for unemployment, that they will be happy and satisfied to be there, along with these little receipts, but safe receipts have lived the rest of their lives. These are the things that we absolutely want to welcome in this law where really caring and caring look thoroughly at all positions, but when we talk about what it is, I would read certain status rights that will draw them out of this law if I have time and I don't really have time. But as they are numbered, however, it is clear that all those who deserve, and especially evaluated, are clearly covered by the time spent in the fighting sector. So, in this respect, the non-combat sector is almost exempt from the rights that these in the fighting sector draw from this law. So once again, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, I ask you to welcome and accept what is good and to accept as the real thing that the Croatian Parliament and its MPs and MPs are rewarding and confirming, that Croatian defenders, the majority who have brought freedom and modernity to the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50656	Thank you very much. And on your exhibit, we have a really long line of replicas. So we'll start from the beginning. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50657	Col. Djakic, the fact that a single law should be passed long ago, but when we talk about defence rights, then all governments were unfair to the defenders. So was the government of Jadranka Kosor, and you were also in the Parliament at the time, reduced 10% of the pensions to Croatian defenders of 3500 kuna, as well as the Government of Zoran Milanovic. Also, what is best for Croatian defenders and this law has its shortcomings and through discussion should correct these shortcomings. We will give the Minister in writing, if he believes that this Parliament should be accepted and, of course, the defenders should not be politicised. But they are politicized when they join the EU. You were also in the Parliament at the time. So we had to shut down all Croatian generals, put them all in the HAG. We won't mention the HVO, which are still in the HAG that were forgotten until recently. Absolutely no one was helping them. Well, it was one general on the Hague tribunal's emissary, while it was tigering with the entry into the EU, as flowers will flourish, and we will have a future for our children. It didn't react then. So the ugliest words towards Croatian defenders are spoken from Vladimir Seks' mouth, locate, arrest, transfer, process. So you know what these reactions are to people? Then what caused it? Well, they were after Ante Gotovina as the last criminal. So who wasn't persecuted by the general? A marker? That's the problem. The problem is the dignity and truth of the Homeland War. And I am sending a question, Mr. Honorable and President of the Board, to ask the prime minister to show about a statement by Milorad Popovec of your coalition partner about a statement that General Bobetko is equal to Milosevic, Dokmanovic, Martic, everything with whom he does not, is it shameful at least humiliating to the heroes of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50658	I thank Mr. Bull for the replica. The answer of my colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50659	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bulj, that there was a 10% reduction and I made it clear that we were reluctant to accept it then, but if it were the state budget and the stability of the state that Croatian defenders were always willing to give up their lives for freedom and not just money. It was in my phonogram you can see when I spoke here in the Croatian Parliament. Croatian generals, yes, were persecuted but not by the Croatian government as you say, were persecuted by the Hague court, proved their innocence, proved their dignity to defend their country honestly, fairly, and did not take any wrong steps and proved to the whole world that confirmed the verdicts in which the aggressor was clearly cited, and who suffered this war and who defended the homeland. They weren't after politicians. The Croatian defenders are the fact that they have been responsible for each of their actions that they have possibly committed or put themselves on the line while the aggressor soldiers have been subjected to justice which was not biasedly believed but are undermined under abject and forgiveness and it bothers me to forget to say it. As for the ugly names for General Bobetko who is a hero and the Second World War and Homeland War, we clearly talk about it, and we cannot allow anyone to insult him and compare with the aggressor leaders who trampled on Croatian soil, who slaughtered and burned all over Croatia's homeland, defied property and cultural values, this cannot be compared.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50660	I thank my colleague Djakic for his reply. Next, a respected counterpart, Vlaho Orepic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50661	Your Honor, Vice President. Mr. Djakic, you mentioned the return of dignity to the defenders, I respect and support the effort to frame the rights of defenders because it is extremely important because defenders are a special decoration of the Republic of Croatia. But, not for one moment, I'm going to give it up now, and I've come forward for an individual debate, but none of the currently in this presentation nor in the law are foreseen a safeguard mechanism. Here I propose publicly... the return of dignity that from the moment someone on the basis of that moment in the Homeland War has acquired the right of counsel or does not know which other right stemming from the law, that from that moment on, if in any way it has damaged the Republic of Croatia in particular financially to take away the rights of defender and any rights resulting from it. We must have such a protective mechanism here, we must avoid any financial abuse, especially to abuse the status of defenders, which is primarily the right to honor, not the right to rights. In that context, please, in this law we must install so that otherwise he has no good intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50662	I thank Mr. Orepic for the replica. The answer of my colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50663	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of Orepić's has been defined so far, and from now on, it's within the law. So all those who abuse legal rights and defence status in the acquisition of material rights are deprived of them and everything they have received must be returned to the state of Croatia, so it stands. And even those children who were killed who were using the right to break legal terms and continued to apply the law, and stopped studying must return what they received from the state of Croatia. I know hundreds of examples that have done so, that for a year they have still received compensation from the ministry as children of the mortally injured Croatian defenders, and they have interrupted the university and have not brought confirmation in time, and that is an example which, as well as defenders who, if using the status of defenders, have exercised their right to sit on complete property, all to be charged. And don't be convinced that there is no such thing in that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50664	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Djakić, I've known myself for a long time in the 7th session, we are together at the Committee for Croatian Defence, and I heard from you that you are now calling for unity and consensus, that is nicely said. But I would ask you why you are now calling for unity and consensus, and you did not call for consensus and unity when the minister was Fred Matic. And I know you as the man who constantly asked for Minister Matic's shift. What is secular today, without Minister Matic trying to help all Croatian defenders like us all expensive Croatian representatives, why is he spectacular? You're saying that this law was attended by Croatian defenders, in which law has so far not been attended by Croatian defenders? Was Fred Matic not a Croatian defender or all those who participated in writing those previous laws were not Croatian defenders? What I have a clear observation of this law is when we will finally know, and that is what Croatian citizens want to know, when we will finally know what the number of Croatian defenders is. I am also a Croatian defender and I believe that this Croatian state should take care of every Croatian defender who was indeed a true defender. But here we are, 25 years after the Homeland War, still counting Croatian defenders. Now we include people's or yes, people's protection in all that together. Which methodology will determine who was 25 years ago with weapons in folk protection. I'm not saying that there aren't really those among them who should get their status that way. But people my 25 years after the Croatian Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50666	I thank Mr. Prelec for the replica. And my colleague Djakic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50667	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Prelec, I didn't mean to repeat today everything I said in my previous years. I thought I'd really change my rhetoric, but you're asking me to repeat why and why. First of all, the attitude towards Croatian defenders and victims' associations that you do not know, and then they were disabling that there were a thousand and a few defense associations in front of the Ministry of Defence and all 28 roof associations that make up the community of these associations. Your colleague didn't understand, and he wouldn't accept it just to disperse certain people and attract them to himself. 28 roof associations absolutely disrespected. He was preparing a law against Croatian defenders and we tried to explain it to you on the board, you did not accept. As far as national protection is concerned, your colleague Ronko has been repeating on every committee, seeking and seeking, writing and repeating repeatedly that he is seeking rights and for the protection of the people, and today he is satisfied with this law. You've strayed somewhere. You have forgotten the great insults that were expressed by both the minister and the president of the then government and all those officials who had violently attacked Croatian defenders by calling them even terrorists, black shirts and all the other inappropriate words, I just said today, not by appropriate words. If you wish, I will repeat to you today everything you have sent as an insult to the account and to the back of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50668	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply. Next came the line from a respected colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50669	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, in your presentation, you mentioned the special establishment unit of the Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which will teach Croatian defenders. On this occasion I want to highlight the special satisfaction that finally here is the agreement between I will tell the Croatian defenders and the Office of Arts. In fact, Croatian defenders are the only persons with disabilities who have had a document so far, i.e. proof that they are persons with disabilities. And it should be said because many do not know that this regulation, on the basis of which all other persons with disabilities will be trained Croatian defenders, but on a special list as you mentioned for the purposes of exercising their rights, and also from this law which I hope will be very soon passed but the regulation will, therefore, be brought into line with this law when it is passed and here I am particularly stressing that Croatian defenders are also covered by the regulation in one satisfactory way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50670	I thank my colleague Lukacic for the replica. Reply from fellow Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleagues Lukačić, yes, we led the debate, argued and documented, one expert group that was formulated to conduct the trial of Croatian defenders made it clear that she had given her expertise and evaluations, including then Deputy Minister Vesna Nađ, who clearly said that it was inapplicable later she neglected it and went by force together with the minister to make a single body of art equal for everyone. So whoever and the one who turned drunk with the tractor and had the tractor secure had a crushed arm as much as the defender who was left on the front line of the explosion and a mine with no hands and a half of the body, are treated equally. Imagine. And it's inconceivable, actually. And that's not the difference. It's just a status question. Today, there are 20 thousand organizations that may have some mental disorders, but only 500 are those who have had the continuity of treatment in psychiatric institutions and which are the real consequences of PTSD from the conduct of the service in the Homeland War and are necessarily taken care of. And that is why a special body that can adequately assess and be supervised by the ministry and in the action of all together can only be made better for those who are unhappy who have indeed been killed and who have suffered from the defense of the Homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50672	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Djakic, I fully agree with you on this law, which is the purpose of this law to return also to defenders from the Homeland War because we have witnessed constant attacks on defenders and on their rights in recent years. I remind you this is not the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, but the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Already 505,000 have been said and some registered Croatian defenders are currently but the total number of those who exercise permanent rights under the current law is 67 370. It makes it very clear how many people are exercising rights and also at this point we have 62 949 of those who are no longer with us. A small part of them died on the battlefield, and a much larger part died during this period from the end of the Homeland War to today. And I can't agree that they died, they all died the same, but if we look at the age structure of that population that died in this period, then we see that the death of the defenders is because of the suicides which are due to the disease and in the same age structure much greater than in the civilian population. And in any case, special attention should be paid but not just to speak of their rights but to be grateful for what they have given in defense of our country. And I suggest one thing, as we established the register and gave it to the public for an insight of the Homeland War defender, which I don't see what the purpose was, might be interesting to give a list of those who were militaryly capable of the Homeland War and weren't involved in defending the homeland, why they didn't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50674	I thank Mr. Felak. I'm afraid that list would be too long. Mr. Djakic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Felak, you have well defined everything that this law has done, and especially the return of dignity to defenders from the Homeland War and families of the dead. It's clear that everything we've done in this past period, we've focused on making the better legal framework and the stronger the law, which is why we need that, what I asked from this pay phone in front of the club, in order for everyone to be reasonable to it. We won't ask the question of who is more, how many ministers, how many secretary of state, the secretary of state, the legal service, how many associations, how many who are, let's all accept what's in line with everyone. Let us accept that with all of us is somewhat satisfying and that everyone is reasonable enough not to be able to do more but not less. We're going to make a scene here today, in this first reading, and in the second, we're going to see the corrections along with the amendments, let's forget about the wars we've fought in this assembly, about all the indisputables that have been happening over time and Pandzic and fellow defender Matic. There was everything and everything but I'd like to put it on the other side today and come in one new step to make what's important to those who are most valuable, unique to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50676	I thank my colleague Djakic for his reply. Next to the replica, a respected counterpart, Ante Babic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50677	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Djakić, you were very well sublimed in the opening statement, it was both brief and clear, and I can't believe that after 26 years of the Homeland War, we are talking at all about the foundations that are related to the definition of the Homeland War concept even though it is also related to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in paragraph 13 which speaks clearly and we have all sworn before this Chamber that we will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and it is good that you were actually talking about the declaration of the Homeland War that was adopted in the 10th month of 2000 and that was actually used in the ruling in The Hague Court where it was actually defined who was the aggressor of the Republic of Croatia that I did not really repeat what you said. But it should also be said at the beginning when the minister spoke, in the presentation of this law, we got all this guide through this law, but we also got this study, in fact a study that was for the first time reasonably related to the defence population in which there are certain data for all those MPs who wanted to read it, it is said that it is analysed according to the data where 419 922 is the Croatian defender. But what's worrying, and that's what you said, is that circumstances change, and so are the circumstances related to defenders, and hence the adoption of this new Law on Defense, we must also say that what was ten times changed is this Law on Defence, which is the following. If the suicide had been committed by 3 050 Croatian defenders, that it is acutely ill 12 700, the minister said that 54 thousand Croatian defenders have died so far and only in 2016 4 037 defenders, which is when divided by the number of days per year, de facto 12 Croatian defenders die daily which is also to read from this study that I commend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50678	I would like to thank my colleague Babic for his replica. The answer of my colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Babić, yes, the mortality of Croatian defenders is a terrible phenomenon. The average of years is 51 or two, that's what's worrying and which is why in this law there are those pompous ones who talk about it before retirement time for them have done their internship more and sooner will go, which were smaller, less will go. The Homeland War declaration makes it clear who the aggressor is, who the aggressors are, who carried out the aggression, Serbia, Montenegro, JNA with an armed rebellion of part of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia. That's what the Homeland War Declaration says. It was put in the first article of the law in paragraph c. And I don't think it should be a problem or a problem to anyone. We know how many Bosniaks were in the Homeland War, we know how many Serbs were in the Homeland War, and with me in Blest, Nebojsa Buha from... So there was no doubt about those who recognized Croatia's homeland, they knew whose side they were on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They knew who to line up with. And they knew how to fight. So today, I have no doubts about this law at all, nor do I want to politicize it to make any points. This is an act taken by associations along with the ministry. An act that is accessible to everyone and satisfies everything in some way. No one gives him the opportunity to use abnormal rights, but only the existential ones that are needed in these times.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50680	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply. Next to the replica, a respected counterpart, Franjo Lucic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Djakic, you mentioned in your debate the words that were mentioned here many times and which are not suitable, privileged, and in 99% of the cases, were thought of by defenders. These people who said the words here are sums of the funeral words and those people who talked about it really don't respect the man who defended the Republic of Croatia, especially those who put their names in the foundations of the Republic of Croatia. This law we're about to pass is the law we've been waiting for for for a long time. But I am also sure that in this very law, we will recognize all the shortcomings that have not been incorporated into laws for Croatian defenders, and I am sure that this new law will bring prosperity, prosperity, improvement, for those people who have earned them and who have defended their country. Because it's easy today, to say and to be smart and to be smart, but at some point, when there was a question of defense and defense against the aggressor, it wasn't elected. And that's why these people who have done so are those defenders and those who sit in this assembly today and here today and as guests, they know best what the defense is and what the will and courage should show at some point. Not today to use such funeral words. In this new law, I am particularly pleased that we will be able to identify people and those who are recognised in this law, which is a national protection that will also receive what they deserve and the comprehensive law that you have contributed to a single improvement and satisfaction, certainly those people who defended the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50682	I thank Mr. Francis Lucic for his replica. The answer of my colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Lucic, yes, it was an honor to serve the country. All the citizens of the Republic of Croatia had the privilege, when Dr. Franjo Tudjman called on them to join the ranks of the Croatian Army and the Croatian police, that the country was at risk. This young system that grew up and the laws and constitutions that were passed were really threatened. At that time, they had every privilege of stepping in and defending themselves. Unfortunately, it didn't happen exactly like that. This would also be known for his colleagues to have all those who could and were militaryly capable, he would probably have filled those 4km if they had all joined the ranks of the Croatian Army and the police. It is true that individuals and as a people's protection were also guarding and defending objects of interest for the Republic of Croatia and that they were under arms, as many weapons as there were. I believe that this number that I've often wondered about is real and true, but when I saw everything... when I took all aspects into account entering... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All those events that were in the formation of new units, I understand that this number is correct and he's fine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's a combat and non-combat sector, we'll figure it out, and there'll be justice for all those wearing uniforms on the front line. I believe in this law that we are changing from tailored to what has been done, perhaps as an injustice in the past tense, through various governments because I'm not only talking about one thing. The '94 law. which was about the defense attorney's welfare, then '97. And so in turn, each one was complemented and was good until 2000 when the system collapsed, the arrival of Pandzic all went wrong, the defenders were disproved, the officers were sent home, protests, riots and all that happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50684	I thank my colleague Djakic for his reply. Next reported to the replica, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50685	Your Honor, Vice President. A colleague of Djakic, you said in your response to his colleague Bulju that Croatian politicians and political elites did not persecute Croatian defenders. It's just a lie and a lie. Here, my colleague Bulj had a case in Sinj when Ivo Sanader was coming, when he had to remove the plate set up by General Gotovina for the Alkarian Courts, so that he would set up Ivo Sanader, because he was bothered by the one set up by General Gotovina. That's when my colleague Bulj called him, said he was a traitor, to whom the end would come and the end came. And that's when my colleague Bulj was kicked out of the Knight's Alkar society. So you're telling the truth, and it's not right for you to do it here in this whiskey house. It was just the party, which you were part of and then you were a parliamentary representative, the vice president of the board, who persecuted Croatian defenders and generals. Only you're forgiven for everything. If during fellow Matics this panel had been removed in Jasenovac, we would probably have demonstrations on the streets, we would have major problems, but you are forgiven. And what is the worst diameter and circles close to the bridge say, We will set the defenders at rest by the Law, and then they will not, and it is written in the newspaper, there will be no disorder. Can defense attorneys' dignity be bought with some rights and money? I don't think so. The defenders have dignity, and it is because of the dignity of these defenders that it is not good for fellow Lucic to talk here about defenders because he used defense loans to hire defenders he used to buy apartments. And even then the vice president of the government suspended those loans, the payment to be paid back by someone, probably someone stronger in ten days, and it's not right to talk about it because it's you who violates the dignity of Croatian defenders because you used credits that you had no right to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50686	I thank Mr. Grumoja for the replica. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50687	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoy, you are using the lies and those who have told you this, and I am in front of the relevant institutions of this country that have all the controls carried out,... Article 238 insults the legislator for unfounded declarations. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the relevant institutions of this state say that this is not true, and you, Mr. Ronko, claim as you claimed and as the paid journalist Hedl also accused me, but only for one reason, because I am a successful man in life, because I am a successful politician, because my HDZ parties have defeated at the level of Požega-Slavon County all of you because I do not answer to you. But it will not succeed in its intention because Franjo Lucic has worked properly so far and will work. And that's why all this stuff you were saying was false, and my company had a total income of 120 million, and not five million kunas that we used to borrow and fully respect what the law intended. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50688	I thank Mr. Francis Lucic. Mr. Grmoya, please. Mr. Grumoja and Mr. Lucic will first respond to your violation of the Rules of Procedure. I do not think the Rules of Procedure have been injured because unfortunately all MPs have been using this debate for one inappropriate way using words that are not suitable for this high house. So if you are not satisfied with my answer, you can announce the clarifications of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. We move to reply to the replica, dear colleague Mr. Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll answer the line even though I have no one. The easiest thing to do is to double tail and escape, probably so in the Homeland War if he had a year for the Homeland War. Yes, once again, it is not the policy that issued the warrants, but it is the Hague tribunal that forced its orders to act on their aspirations, and in the end it happened that regardless of the captivity, to extradition, all these honorable people proved their innocence and justified the Homeland War, justified everything before the Hague tribunal. They didn't organize a firm called Grizzly, and that's how they started pulling money, probably. We did not bite anyone, nor were we with anyone in any contractual obligation, when we would be offended. And we shall hear more of the lies and the excuses of the lie. There are contracts that are visible and what grizzly was, so a colleague of Grmoya must know as well as his colleagues that they were in good... democracy, law and parliamentaryity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50690	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply to the replica. We have another violation of our Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Vlaho Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50691	Mr. Djakic, Injury of Rules of Procedure 238th insult of a parliamentary representative. I can't believe you said that a man would have been a senior participant of Homeland Work so he wouldn't have participated in the Homeland War, so how could you not be ashamed, so how could God not be ashamed of you? God forbid.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50692	I thank Mr. Vlaha Orepic. I don't see any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. I would really ask you distinguished colleagues and colleagues because today we are discussing the fundamental Law on Croatian defenders about those who created the Croatian state to stay away from the ugly and inappropriate words for this high home and to stop at least on this topic fighting over some of the things from the past that were like this or like this. Croatian defenders in '91. They went to war for no political option but for the Croatian people and for the Croatian state. And I would really ask you to today if never elsewhere and never next time that we have one consent and that in a dignified way we keep one correctness and one level of humanity appropriate when we discuss those people and those victims who created the Croatian state. And thank you for that, I really do appeal to that. The next call came from a respected colleague, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50693	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, you explained why the criticisms of Article 1 of this Law were entirely unfounded, especially on the 3rd paragraph on aggression against the Republic of Croatia. I would mention here and highlight one other dimension when we talk about the rights of Croatian defenders, I would talk here about the obligations of all of us MPs because we are all from whatever party, from which constituency we were chosen to swear that we will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is very clear, he says that "Croatian state is founded on the victory of Croatian peoples and Croatian defenders in a fair, legitimate, defensive and liberating Homeland War" It is the Croatian Constitution and it binds us all. This is therefore neither about relations in the ruling majority, nor about relations with other countries, nor relations between Croatian peoples and national minorities, no, this is exclusively about respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what's important and that's the main reason amongst all the other things that you said that I think we have to vote for exactly this definition as the Government suggested in the first article of this Law on Croatian Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50694	I thank Mr. Stier for this replica. And my colleague Djakic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Stier, however, I emphasized it so that it would remain in this law, in this article defined just as it is. Because when a neighboring country hears a voice that's hard, that it's terribly hard to accept that someone was an aggressor, that someone committed aggression, that someone put a spoon and a gambling on it, that someone had a speech in Glina and talked about Serbian countries. And it's very difficult for us if this changed, it would be a defeat for us, it would be a defeat of truth, and it would be a changed truth that would not correspond to the reality that happened. The agresors are defined, confirmed before the international tribunal described in the rulings. I don't know what to be afraid of right now. Is it hard to say that, it happened, we were, it won't happen again, we want good neighbourly relations and we have nothing to do with your law, it's so made... And even at the end of my mind today, I didn't feel like having some kind of heated and heated debate, but you see what's going on, some twisting the thesis when you have something good in front of the Croatian Parliament, let's undo it with something that's gone on and it's absolutely out of force... [[The speaker is away from the microphone, he doesn't understand.]] , inappropriate even to this text of the law because it is not spoken of at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we share the view that this is the right thing to do in front of us, in front of the entire Croatian people, and we as representatives of that Croatian people hope to vote unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50696	I thank Mr. Djakic for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. The next is Croatian Defence Minister Mr. Tomo Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Listen carefully to all the debates, and in particular I want to look back at the presentation of my colleagues, Djakic, and about the parameters and application of this law. I would like to make it very clear that as a basis for new measures, we have developed quality analysis of the situation that you have here on your benches. And on which we have actually worked intensively for a year back with all relevant state bodies and services. They were also a basis for us to have proper access to each Croatian defender. There are also status and material issues, but you have here a presentation that speaks of a demographic and social economic picture which in its unique way paints the state of Croatian defenders in Croatian society. I would like to stress that in the analysis of these measures we have taken care of two important segments. One is for him to be enforceable and the other is for him to be available when we talk about budgets. In the opening part of my presentation, I presented financial amounts for every measure. It is precisely these financial amounts that have been harmonised over the past few months with the restoring ministry. What I also want to say is its application in practice. Namely, one of the major difficulties we have had so far is the lack of availability of the activities of the Croatian Defence Ministry, Croatian defenders on the ground. Therefore, one of the measures provided for in the proposal for a new law is to strengthen the regional, county units that will enable all counties in the Republic of Croatia to have access to the service of the Croatian Defence Ministry and to resolve the case in the first degree. Secondly, I would also like to point out, it is mentioned that it is a separate body of art formation that will enable the implementation of the skills of Croatian defenders within the legal deadline. So an extremely important question because unfortunately, right now there is an extremely large number of Croatian defenders waiting for art and we have heard today that more than 40,000 demands are in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. What I particularly want to highlight in this House of Highs is the consistency of all measures in the proposal for our new law with all other regulations that are in force. There were speeches here, and our bill also identifies women and minor Croatian volunteers as a separate category and in a special way are assessed as such. What I want to look at in particular is that mortality and unfortunately often bid. Croatian defenders die between 50 and 52 years of age, and therefore we went with a series of these preventive measures to detect these symptoms in time and start the treatment procedure on time or to provide adequate care. Opening of the deadline and implementation of the law when we talk about both the status of Croatian defender and the status of Croatian military disabled, all of these are measures that we have through the project groups and there have been 11, with a total of over 500 members, elaborated thoroughly in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, which will ultimately implement these procedures to regulate this status of Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50698	I thank the respected Croatian Defence Minister, Mr. Tommy Bear, for this debate. We've got a few replicas, and we'll continue with them after the break I'm setting up by 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50699	Here's a colleague and a colleague, back to work, we have three replicas to present to the esteemed Secretary of Tome Bear. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The first is the respected representative of Vlaha Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50700	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, a clean contribution to making this law as good as possible and as good as possible. You said that the sums, that the money needed to bring this law back to life, were envisaged, etc. I'm gonna have to ask myself a little bit in that direction. Namely Art. 190. who has not been in this context at all in the Defence Act, says the Republic of Croatia, hereby waives any rights that have arisen or could arise from events related to defence, the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, according to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and any proceedings that are ongoing are suspended, and each party bears its own costs. So this law is literally as vague as it is and simply, to put it this way, all the damage is transferred to the Republic of Croatia, which means that it can literally be a war crime, and it can also be about ordinary civil work in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations. For example. Investment contracts, cessium, the Law on Mandatory Relations, know that the debt requirement is due in a number of ways. So it's very important here to pay attention not to be burdened by the Republic of Croatia, needless. I must also draw attention to Article 6 of the E. Watch this, the mortally injured Croatian defenders, status, the mortally injured Croatian defender, under E says and defines it as the one who committed suicide as a result of the psychological illness caused by the participation of the defence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia until the day of entry into force of this law. So the day after, that day, the entry into force of this law, it is not the mortally injured Croatian defender. So literally God forgives me, he can somehow suggest that he kill himself by then, if he'll solve family problems. So that should just change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50701	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50702	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, therefore, what I have heard from your presentation specifically and you have said that every defender will be able to exercise his rights that define this legislative proposal. That's very important. You said then and later that you would take care of the availability of services to Croatian defenders and that you would have a separate construction unit. Because what the defenders on the field say often, they call the ministry, they get a call from a porter, they can't actually get an adequate answer unless they're members... Defense organizations, and then through the Defense Association, I can do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I appeal to you as Minister, to do everything in your power to make sure to every defender, regardless of whether he is a member of the Defense Association or not. And here's my colleague Orepić now stole this piece of replica, so Art. 6. the item determining that the time limit in committing suicide as a result of a mental illness caused by the participation of defences and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia will be limited to the date of entry into force of this law. I don't think that's a good solution at all, because then, not to mention this questionable decision, mentioned by fellow Orepic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50703	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50704	Thank you. Dear Ministers, you mentioned during your presentation, the gap between theory and practice in the implementation of the Law on Croatian Defence, so I would like to ask you a specific question, why are the defenders given worthless shares? We have a case a few days ago, Mr. Misko Balog, from Sisak, which was given 18400 kunas of worthless shares of Dalmatia and the Crikvenica Adriatic that are not traded at all on the stock market. So if you have shares that are not traded on the stock market, you actually have a worthless piece of paper, maybe it's worth a few limes. Can you, as Croatian Defence Minister and member of the government, influence the CERP to stop cheating on Croatian defenders? Stop giving shares that can't be cashed? Can you influence Mr. Blaogo's replacement of his stock? In particular to give him 18400 kn, then he's 65 years old disabled is the Homeland War, he's waited very long and here he is now finally played in one of the most vile ways. As far as I can tell, and I believe you're still hearing it. The CERRP insists on assigning such shares. So there are several hundred thousand, or millions of kunas... The stock that lies in the pre-fashion settlement and will never be worth anything, not a single kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's one particular case, so I'm asking for concrete treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50705	Thank you very much. We move on to the next Club of Representatives on behalf of him will speak that is the Club of Representatives Independent for Croatia on behalf of whom the respected representative Željko Glasnović will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50706	Dear fellow Parliamentarians, Croatian military disabled, those who watch us, defenders, I welcome you all. 22 years after the end of the Homeland War, we finally have some legal framework to move on. There's work to be done of course, there's going to be amendments, we've got our own. In May of the past, we suggested that an independent move to speed up the process, has a document signed by the Defence Minister, General Medved and his team. I would say just this, we can criticise, but there is a saying that "all credit and praise should go to those who are in the arena" by blood and sweat, they are there. Co-operation is good not only between the Ministry of Defence but was a team recently on central Bosnia that it is only a matter of pensioning Croatian defenders of HV, HVO, etc. but also business opportunities to improve. And there's no one coming into the country where 5% of the land is arranged, where we have the bureaucracy of socialist etc. Why are we here today? Here's some persistent on this side and it keeps hiding the truth and... causes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're here today because we came out of one party system, which three pillars were, the JNA that attacked this, JNA, UDBA and the Communist party. And now I've never heard of these people sitting here who attacked Croatia? The Martians. You have that movie "Mars Attacks". Who attacked Croatia? It's a simple answer that truth is being prevented, but you can't long anymore people... You have a virtual world now, Internet etc. That's where it's all blocked out of context, the ones that've been attacking us there since '45. Next they occupied the country, and I'm behind that claim. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I waved with a document showing what the MUP system was like in Makarska has 11 thousand inhabitants, 55 in the SUP personnel of two Croats and one Russian, 50% in Zagreb militias who were? Martians, etc. Why are we where we are and we don't have that fund intellectually he's gone long ago, we have some people here who wrote doctoral papers on the role of Bosnian horse in NOB and that's why Croatia has, for example. Let's say seven patents per million inhabitants, and the EU is an average of 120. It's our intellectual trust, and it's the legacy of something. I'd just mention one thing, this law will need a very, very media strategy to pass because it's been run since the beginning by some black propaganda, you know, statistics. When someone fits their stats, it's all great, when someone... It's hate speech or something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the phraseology from the Bolshevik Revolution that rules today in this House, we watch it every day. And God help us if we have the Doctors of Science some of those titles out there today, then we're really in trouble. Here's today you've heard the exact data that you have 205,000 defenders, that's 47% who are working today in a working relationship. You've got 82 grand that don't have any receipts at all. The first are 47% of the population, the second 18% here is what it is. If this were a legal state, we wouldn't be discussing this law, but we'd be spending the plebiscite there if this were constitutional law. A Switzerland, for example. has plebiscite democracy, one man, one voice. To change the constitution, it takes tens of thousands of votes, a referendum, and it takes much less for legal changes. And there's our Constitution, the castle is a two-thirds constitution for key changes because we inherited this legal ideology, the doctrine from the former SFRY and that's why we can't move on. When I hear here about the hunt that must be given to Croatian defenders, some seal that must be given to Croatian defenders, I'll just read some statistics like this, let's do this for money. Every honour that bothers the Serbian Orthodox Church has been paid more than half a billion kuna since 2002, and today we are paying the facility in Italy and Slovenia. Who cares if we still pay 50,000 pensions in Serbia today, how much money is it, I don't know, does anyone know how much money it is? He can tell later how much money it is. ... No difference. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What kind of Croatian pension is there in Vojvodina, etc., these are facts. I don't do empty ideologies or I don't do empty... phraseology that came from the Bolshevik Revolution, but from facts. Because we forget now that an initiative has been launched in this House to pay pensions to people who have occupied the Croatian state since... the period of '91. Until '96. It was launched by two parties sitting here with us and some spinning in the grave like Radic and others and asking... they launched an initiative at the International Court of Labour in Geneva to pay off people. It would cost us billions and billions of dollars if no one were to talk about what this initiative would bring us but rather care for Croatian defenders. Of course it's not up to me to propose some amendments, they'll depend, especially one point you'd mention, there's a lot of people who would work but it's disabled for them to work, but they're retired. Only the seven thousand defenders who had a pension are working, that's something that's triggered. But we have the youngest population in Europe of pensioners, and we have a country where 1.2 million people work, as much as 1.2 in retirement, it's unsustainable. Second of all, we're going to suggest that the Homeland War Institute be established, because we're not going to repeat who attacked us here all the time. So I know who attacked us. Those who are there in '45. They took off the coke and put on a five-pointer, and in this war they took off their five-pointer and put on a coke, easy. It's a historical truth. And Mr. Pupovac and others, I don't know, what they have to say here, I've never heard that the Serbian Orthodox Church apologized for crimes on the people over these premises. Yes, this is history, since 1912-1941, where I mentioned where the war started and where it ended. And that's the collective amnesia these former frames want to wipe out for us. That we can't retaliate the consequences and the causes. In the end, HVO, how come HVO, what kind of problems do I have with HVO? I'll read some of these basic facts later, like this. The Homeland War was a unique battlefield. Because if it wasn't for those people, the Croats in the BiH, there would be no BiH today, no Federation, no Croatian state... a referendum, stopping tanks there in Shirokom, Tomislavgrad, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic document that covers this, this right of Croatian defenders, the HVOs are never really an HV, an HVO, but a Croatian force. That's what President Tudjman used, and that basic document is called, his address, the nation of '96. the year, which mentions, the unique Croatian forces, under a single command. Let's not forget, it took a year to get there from Kupres to Mrkonjic city and beyond. We can't forget that. And this is led by black propaganda against Croats from the BiH. Just one little piece of information for some of our science doctors. Doctor of Science, Mr. Bauk, you know what, I won't, when you're talking I didn't get up and talk about the love habits of Africa... flies, maybe you'd learn something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing is, look, here's the thing. I don't know anyone. This is from 2009. I see your hand signals, and you're not only historically illiterate, but you're one other thing, you have a metal band that can't be removed, it's hard for you, I understand that. But there are two psychiatrists, I mentioned that before. The other thing is this, look. Here, in 2009, you have 42190 members of the Nob. Which cost the state billions and billions of kuna. In 2009, 2000 and some average kunas are pensions. You have an HVO, 6300 members. The same pension almost bothers people like this, historically illiterate, which bothers them, HVO, that he can sit here today and tell us stories. And bring down those empty phrases without any facts. Because you don't have a fact, sir. Secondly, when you talk about the Homeland War, you're like a doll, some are like dolls here. We have 10,000 victims, and that's 10,000 times 1 people who were trampled in camps, who were killed by jumping on a chest basket in Manjaca, Banja Luka, etc. You have raped women, people who died in agony, and that's not a joke to me. And here you talk about the Homeland War, you don't feel it, because you didn't feel it. You didn't have people dying on your hands. You have no idea, you only have phrased ideology and your ego that's bigger than Mount Everest. In the end, I support this law, independent too. Of course they're gonna rain these amendments here. They'll come. But this is an appeal to the Croatian people here to wake up from that winter dream, to start dealing with facts and to stop black propaganda against Croatian defenders, because there's also money being sold to Tito's villa. We were talking about war damage, 40 how many billion dollars of extraordinary damages. Now get on... Selling Tito's villa, that's a fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not an empty story for 2.5 million. What about INA property in Serbia? What about the return of property confiscated? These are also the consequences of this former system, which we're talking about here today, and the resources there are, should be deployed. I thank the Secretary of Defense for coming here, and I know what kind of pressure he's under, and I hope this goes well, but we're going to include this law, that we're going to scratch it right. And finally again, to appeal, to resist these agitpropers, who protect a party here, a criminal, who is still in power on some issues. And always, yes, that strange word of frustration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50707	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first to represent the Honorable Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50708	Thank you, Vice President. Dear General Glasnovic, I would say that the Croatian defender was derailed 25 years after the war. Why? Because the red tape of the Croatian state never wanted to solve the favourable issue of our defenders. And why would she do that? Just because she was working and returning everything to '45. A year to say it was done during communism, it was antifascism in '91. years won, not Croatian defenders who defended the Croatian state. So you see, please, there were anti-fascists coming out of our barracks shooting at us with a five-pointer. How can they be at the edge of our defenders? Is that possible? Anything is possible in Croatia. So how did you defend anti-fascism when you went shooting at our people in Croatia? Croatia was won in '91. And we have to write it down once and finish in '45. A year. And give the historian to say what antifascism is, what Communism is and what is today, what are our defenders, who are indeed 25 years old, under every level of disrespect. I don't mean this people, but disrespecting our bureaucracy, which doesn't want to, never make order in defense. This is the problem of the Croatian state. We are still certain teams of people and our bureaucracy in Yugoslavia. Croatia remains unacknowledged and simply does not love it and does not want to hear about the defenders. Not to mention our raped women all over Vukovar and around, where the investigation has never been solved. So let's see what we've done in 25 years for these people. Here we have our disabled, unfortunately, I can come watch and listen to us all together, and what do we do for them? Nothing. We're still rebelling when they have some benefits, and we're not going to tell everyone 30, 40,000 Partisan pensions, so I don't know if they've been defending Yugoslavia for 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50709	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Glasnovic. Oh, no? Thank you. Dear Representative Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50710	Dear Vice President, my colleague Glasnovic is laughing at you and mocking your words, chasing you with their lies on your truth. And I'm going to back up your truth about what you're saying. I'll be quick. I'll read it in a hurry. He says about another Dr. Karadzic Radovan, I will talk about the privileges in which they had and gained privileges. "According to the measures and statements and orders of an SSNO security institution from Belgrade, Emperor Uros 63, we must have confidential persons in all institutions, especially in the pharmacy, regardless of knowledge, ability. For the second time in my life, I threw out my name and last name so you wouldn't tell who it is, you'd get one seat at the Medical School in Banja Luka. If you're having trouble with the place, you can transfer a boy to Nis like you did last year with that boy I sent you from Split. The problem is that a friend doesn't have a proper high school. He graduated from a driving traffic school in SR Croatia, so he must take a qualified exam in biology, chemistry and physics. He can't pass it because there's no sign of the cases mentioned. Comrade NN and his father are my brother-in-law's personal friends, General Veljak, and his faces are very confidential to us. He was also assigned an apartment by the provisions of the JNA Residential Fund in Split and said, "Fuck it, don't make me and Veljak come to Banja Luka because of these petty p. It's clear to us that the boy doesn't have a sense of science, but that makes sense for what's most important to us. The boy was on a short course of security checks and training and proved to be very similar. But he'll be less intrusive to work as a doctor. It is important to push it through, enter it, and then easily transfer it to Croatia, Rijeka or Zagreb. Comrade greetings, I'll see you at the VMA in Belgrade on Wednesday. Colonel Dr. Stevan Kadjevic, Military Hospital Internal Department." That's how they trained and advanced and sat here laughing at you, general.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50711	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50712	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, General Glasnović. You spoke of the rights of the Croatian Defence Council, i.e. Members of the Croatian Defence Council in BiH. However, there is one question left in the air whether this law regulates and members of the HoS in BiH, i.e. will this law also regulate their rights, whether the family of the murdered Blaž Kraljević will also consume those rights, is it ever going to know the truth of who killed Blaž Kraljević and the members of the HOS in BiH?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50713	The answer of the respected representative Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50714	Yes, I had a VOC in the brigade. To me, the Croatian soldier is a Croatian soldier. I didn't share anyone or anyone. I didn't know there were Croats from Slavonia, Gospić, etc. when I lived outside. Like all of them were the same to me. It was a small town, I was 8 years old. Whenever the Croat came my grandfather would put on a tie, a hat and meet a Croat there at the railway station in that small town in Canada that has 12,000 inhabitants. That's why there's other problems. You have people who, if they weren't there wouldn't even be Croats in the Latin Valley and other heroes of the Homeland War didn't fix anything. It is a disgrace to the Croatian state. And I'd say the same thing if we had an orderly state that we didn't have, because we got out of that self-government anarchy, the one-party system we'd have military courts, we'd have military police, etc. And we do everything. It's easier to create a country than to preserve it. Also, you need to deal with war profiteers and see who had what. I don't see a lot of Field Marshals talking about problems today in Croatia. May it be upon them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50715	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50716	Dear Vice President, here's my colleague, Glasovic, from your debate, I understand that you are the only Croat in this country. Because you spoke obviously we are none here nor Croats, nor do we care about Croatia except you. Here you have criticized both HDZ and SDP, and even Stjepan Radic, the man who went to the Belgrade Assembly even though he knew he was going to shoot him there. He gave his life for Croatia and Croatia, and you humiliated him here in some way. Although I must admit that although we brought in June 20th, the day of the June 20th victims, even the President of the Parliament didn't keep a minute of silence, so I'm not surprised. But besides that, you threw the trees and stones on the left and on the right. I wonder why you supported today's government if nobody's good here, and neither are they. I can't understand which of your discussions, what are your interests and what are you talking about? You've been gone for 30 years in Croatia, and I don't think you should give a lecture to those who fought communism at that time and lived here and were never party members. I don't think we should criticize everything like that today. Of course we at HSS support such a law on Croatian defenders. I hope that he will one day separate the real defenders from those who have hidden from that name, because I don't know who will eventually succeed in getting so much money if the number of Croatian defenders increases, to pay off all those pensions and all the privileges that the defenders have. The real defenders who have been killed, who have given parts of the body or in some way have suffered from the war really need the help of this country and need the compensation of this country, and I hope that this law will try to distinguish that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50717	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50718	I don't know who you are, I don't have your biography, I didn't work for UDBA and I know who I am. At the same time, I didn't insult that spin again. I didn't insult anyone. I mentioned our Mr. Stephen Radic rested his soul. My grandfather was a member of the first opposition in the old South, the Croatian Republican Peasant Party and also knows Mr Krnić, Radic and Maček. He knew them all like that. And as far as I'm concerned, you're not exactly, you may be a politician, but you're not a historian because you don't know anything about your history. You'd know about the villagers, if that former state you, you'd just made an agreement... Communists who never apologized against the Croatian people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Never. Not only did they not apologize for the crime, but those victims... And today, he eats there with you, you're part of that group, and you should know, that after 2nd World War, '50s if you listen to what I'm saying, look, don't believe me, '50s. For years, the only country under communist rule in Europe, west of the Ural, which has a rural rebellion, was Croatia, where they hung... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Slunj and in Osijek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And your comrades ate the diplomatic sequence was breakfast on Brijuni, 32 sequences, while people survived on milk powdered and poisoned eggs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50719	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50720	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the club, Mr. Glasnović, I want to say two things. You asked how much the Republic of Croatia's pension from abroad, or how much of it goes to Serbia. So HZMO pays 143,000 pensions outside the Republic of Croatia. So it's not just for Serbia, but for all the former countries, in fact, for all the republics of the former common state. What you said well in your presentation, and what was actually troubled in the Republic of Croatia, is the participation of members of the Croatian Council of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, and it releases actually for the Croatian Defence Council, which is related to the interstate agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the BiH. And that was actually your condition for paying back pensions to members of the Croatian Defence Council. You know that decision was respected, and now the amount that the Republic of Croatia owes in 2007-2016 is totaling 187 million kuna. So the total amount is 187 million kuna, and these funds are coming to you from the request of the Republic of Croatia, from the rest of the republics of the common state. So, both Serbia and Macedonia, Montenegro, BiH and Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50721	The answer of the respected representative Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50722	I thank you for that information. We heard 53,000 if I heard the exact number of foreign pensions and I wonder what the pension of Croats in Vojvodina is. I've said that before in Republika Srpska and other places. This law is important, not only to exercise some rights, it is a key element in restoring Croatia's economic recovery. If we do not have a strong Croatian state, we do not have the survival of Croats in the BiH. I think Croatia is in plus, 100m euros every year, trade with Croats in BIH. And we should keep that in mind, because Croatia has no strategic depth without these people. That's it. This is a strategic issue for the Croatian state. Because we have down south we have a land that is 650 meters wide. That's what these exes left us because we talked about them enough. But without a legal framework for investment from outside, which is now blocked here, we need to understand that this entire pension system is unsustainable because 50% of people work in administration, in public services. If we don't create new values, new jobs, we'll have a hard time surviving. And I wonder where the action plan for returning Croats back to BIH, it is for the young gentleman, from where 25000 Croats were driven, 25000, action plan and where the return of Croats outside the homeland is an action plan for their investments, which will be legally secured. That's the key questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50723	Thank you very much. The next SDP representative's club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Predrag Matic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I divided my exposure on behalf of the SDP Club into 3 parts, so I simply have to say this opening part because from it comes all this further which will be talked about by the law. So, after 555 days of protest, which began as a protest, and ended as terror, harassment and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the entire ministry, Godo came, this law I call it Godo, so it was promised. It's been working for a year and a half and I have to start by saying the law isn't bad. Because the law didn't honestly bring anything new. I'll show you later. So, protesters who, therefore, started the protest Milan Bandic and his team, and took over HDZ and their team, because they were simply impatient to wait for regular elections and take over power, should have done so by force. They both fell. That you know, that it is certainly not my smallness, so it was for Milanovic and Josipovic, and in part, they succeeded. The confirmation of this was made by Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who came to the tent several times before the ministry, gave support to protesters, told the community and respect for institutions, and never came to the defence ministry. Interesting. However, I now expect her to support Croatian defenders, in an effort to keep this law constitutional, because look, the protesters are given 2 promises. One thing is that the name of the defence ministry will change, and the other is that a constitutional law on the rights of Croatian defenders will be passed. HDZ logic says we've met 50% of your demands. They have indeed applied the name of the ministry and now it is no longer the Ministry of Defence, but the Ministry of Croatian Defence, as if there were other defenders. But it doesn't matter, okay, we gave another $2.3 million to change the seals that Oreshkovic's government failed to lift, so we had to change them. And change the memos on the documents. What happened? The law is not bad, although in 3 amendments and additions made by the Government of Zoran Milanovic and my smallness as minister, a number of newspapers have been passed, which is very easy and supportive with documents. So it's all written down stories, manipulations we leave it to those who serve the team all the time. It would be good to pass the law and what Mr Djakic says to stop manipulation, but only it is the unique right of HDZ alone. Remember the Split Riva, remember the Beštek affair, remember the tent, who was doing the problems, who was doing the manipulations? Look here, probably now the representatives of the association have gone because they're more bored waiting late this afternoon, remember two years ago what these same people did to that good man, Joseph Leca, when they were screaming, yelling, and they didn't want to talk about anything but constitutional law. They're not talking about it today. They say we have raised a protest over the situation in the country, so today Croatia is shooting at seams on all sides of the INA, Agrokor, bribes and corruption, employment, transmitters, connections, we have the award of competitions to people who have not called, we have even crossed the Western Europe, which is going to suck. So here is often the word dignity used, if you Google your dignity a little means honoring the man that man gives himself. Dignity or who can take it or who can give it, and we keep looking for some dignity, and in law, we avoided the concept of right. The right is mentioned in hundreds of places. So what do the 200 thousand Croats who left Croatia think about it? 0 to that by that. The protest is over, the defenders haven't figured it out yet, they get it right away, and they're less smart a little later, and these some will never realize that one party and five individuals profited from the protests. One became an adviser to the president, the other became a minister, a third secretary of state, the fourth solved legal problems, the law problem, and the fifth with his wife was the king of that tent as we have the queen of the Balkans, so we had the king and queen of the tent. What's not mentioned in this bill and I'll say that before I go to this part, they're gone. The most severe consequences of the war are missing persons. We have that the minister's assistant a few days ago insulted a representative of the Serbian Commission for missing persons on a dog wagon and what did he do with it? No more talking. When are we gonna find any more missing? A politician must be prepared for many things, so even conditionally speaking, and what he has told him is not far from the truth. I can even say, of course, that he told him the truth, but in politics, he can't. A man came to Zagreb to visit him, he insulted him a man rose and went away. Who we're going to find now, and we're looking for a thousand and a half people. What's interesting is now it's re-connecting to HDZ, the missing persons' association, if anyone's looking for their child, their brother, their sister, their mother, their father's keeping quiet like fish, no more, no more protests, what difference does it make? And secondly, the civilian victims of the most severe victims of the Homeland War are always what they say neither the guilty nor the debtors, nor the words of them. There may be some new law, the minister did not say that in his presentation of this law. But I know what's behind the hill. Out of the roughly 10,000 civilian casualties, 9000 are Croats, but a thousand of them you know, um, can I say here yes, a thousand is Serbs. So whoever cuts off and the 9,000 Croats don't exercise any rights just so that thousands of Serbs don't realize it and it's said about Serbs who remain on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the free part of the Republic of Croatia. What is good in this law and what I will welcome is certainly an attempt to encourage the defender to work. The biggest problem with defense attorneys is that, the retired who have too much time to spend on cafes and bookies, so I commend these provisions allowing defenders to work, to sort of kill time, to do something in order. Okay, if there's gonna be competition for some other people, we'll see about that. Easier leaving and early retirement, I don't know how our citizens will probably welcome it. New defenders, HDZ special, so 26 years after the war, somebody remembers, I guess they wake up in the morning and say, well, I was a defense attorney, and then they go and check in. We have a problem with national protection, so a number of people of national protection certainly took part in the defense, but they don't know today 26 years after the war whether there were five or 75 thousand. I have said it many times and I repeat, it should be expected within a year, two days that if he is Prime Minister Plenkovic, and if he is Minister Medved, the million defender, will be given flowers and candy the way it is done in the cultural countries for the millions of passengers at airports. He says a single law has been returned, give the people, and all the time for 25 years we've been saying that not only the Defense Department can take care of the defense attorneys, it must be the whole state. And now we've pompously called it the Single Law on Defence Rights, but you still need the Ministry of Pension and Labour, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the MORH and the MUP. What kind of unique thing is that, then? We're all like summed up in one law, it's just not true. Unemployed benefits, defenders more than anything they like to be scolded and lied to, that's amazing. So you don't have to fill them in just lie well. It used to be called unemployment benefits, so it was called supplies, so it was a guaranteed minimum fee, and whatever you call it, it's always the same. And every government has given to the unemployed as much as it has had for those purposes, and now it's said that 82 thousand people, it's about me thinking one ten times as much as it's ever been, everyone's going to get and for everything there is. When those 82 thousand people are taken care of for unemployment or supply or whatever they call it, bring me that law to eat it here in public in front of everyone. What's wrong, new defenders. So we have '96. In the year, President Tudjman wonders about 360 thousand defenders, so fat after the war ended, he says from where, how. It means '96. To date, another 150,000 people remembered they were defenders, but that's not enough to open up any further. Of course, in order for the specialty to be complete, the recipe must be perfect. The register closes, so I haven't met yet except a few people here who are against the publication of the Defense Register. Croatian citizens pay us pensions, give us Croatian defenders and it is fair to know who and why, when it opens it is over. The biggest winners of this bill are members of the HVO, and in part, I will say that in the end and Mrs Vesna Pusic, I will not explain this in order not to harm the interests of the 6th Croats in The Hague. Living, noisy announcements, unfortunately ministers, over 300 a year, you won't solve housing issues because it's still 12,000 unresolved issues, it's just like that. Super coefficient, watch out now, who was the Protestant, so everything will be clear to you, the pension coefficient of the Guard brigade and the special police 1.8, the rest of the poor 1.5. What were the R brigades weaker, what were they to see? Which one was stronger than the werewolf brigade? Which one was stronger than the Sibenik brigade in the first place? Who was it, who could measure it that way? However, the team measured it. The thanks of the Minister OK, when associations can declare heroes of the Homeland War, the minister can, it could simply have been a regulation but any recognition is only valid from the Office of Presidents, it is known who gives medals and confessions. And now that sugar, the association, you know who was protesting again. So imagine them in the statutes writing NGOs, not party, not profit, and they are of course from the first day of both government and party and profit. From 0.3% to 1%, each of them now has a mayor, a mayor, a mayor, a mayor, from 0.3% to 1%, you'll be giving to associations from the Homeland War. To make it easier for the state to give you 20 million kuna per year for the functioning of associations from the Homeland War, the City of Zagreb from the year 70 must give, Dubrovnik 10, I don't know how other cities will. And in the end, the people say it's potassium, or where it's caught. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Does this mean anything to you, the guys from HVO 26 to 49, 50 to 56, 140 to 147, we are discussing the law today and these provisions will be valid from 1.1.2019. And what does that mean? If HDZ is in power, he will explain to them as it has been for 27 years that something he can't, can't, will be like this. And if they lose power, a new power, you have to apply the law. Therefore, the SDP will be committed to this law, it will support it, of course in the second reading, and we will give some amendments and supplements but we will insist that the law applies from 1.1.2018 to all and to our HVO brothers. Why would they wait another year and a half. Ask for confirmation from the president. And in the end, alone, only about the means. So incredible logic, only HDZ can do it. Last year, at the position of the Department of Defense, you cut 100 million and then give them 174 million. So ask the kid from first grade primary school how much they got. Of course, they're thankful they got 174 million, so they had to take their entire budget and give it back to them, here's a better hero. In 2014, the only government that has reduced the defences of 10%, according to Milanovic's government, which is Minister Matic, who does not like defenders and who is constantly with them in the conflict, prescribed that he returns 10% when GDP is growing and the deficit falls. It's now, this month. We have denied 350 million kuna a year, which means that only 350 million kuna is returned to the pensioner's sea next year alone. It's so accurately calculated here that it's 64 million. Well, only until the new year is 100 million, 3 months the defenders will get those pensions thanks to the not-so-returning national government of the SDP. Every government has abolished, even though the defense attorneys have 10%, none of them have returned, but Fred has returned. So there is money, Plenkovic will feed all the defenders with one fish like Jesus and will therefore be for everyone. The SDP, I said, will support this law in addition to amendments, but we will insist that the law applies immediately, but here since 1.1.2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50725	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused a huge series of replicas. So let's start from the beginning. First, she's the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50726	Your Honor, Vice President. Fred, you've got the medal, the order of the Croatian Cross, which is obtained exclusively for the wound. Where are you wounded, 100% disabled? I understand your impatience towards a certain part of the defender and your act of brigade since you've had experience, you've been commander of the room, in prison, in Serbia. But I will read what your friends, your comrades say, as you like to call them from the city of Vukovar, a hero where you rarely come. In faith and hope that at least someone from the Croatian media and the state institutions of the Republic of Croatia care that they finally objectively and truthfully demystify the self-proclaimed hero of the book Nothing False, we want to believe that this letter will come upon a conscientious and honest editor of journalists who will pay attention and devote themselves to journalistic research as well as to the state institution and with the aim of real protection of the dignity of defenders and the Homeland War. And once and for all, by the name of Predrag Matic-Fred, stop the humiliation, the insult, the real real real real heroes of defender Vukovar. With respect to the Vukovar defenders, Nevenko Mauser, Petar Janjic Tromblon, Tomislav Jakovljević, Vinko Mažar, Mario Mlinarić, Miroslav Josić, Ante Madona, Tomislav Josić, Mirko Brekalo, Trpinska cesta of course, Branko Grdić, Ante Rasdić, Dean Marošević, Stanko Zadar, Rogoljić, Lozančić, etc., and so on, only Marko Babić is alive so that you know how he handled it on Trpinska cesta 2, 3 and with his foot up your ass. So much, Fred, hero.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50727	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50728	Thank you very much. Mr. Culey, you're a phenomenon, like, I'd say a man that you bled his pants, I'll take you in front of all the MPs, and I suggest we go on a field trip where you were during the war, where I was. And after that other one never shows up here again. So during the protest...... Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50729	Wait a minute, please, don't yell from the spot.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50730	So what Mr. Culey's talking about is it's long since all been denied and of those who have so strongly encouraged, it's not signatures, but I don't want to argue. I can teach you a saying that doesn't apply directly to you so that you don't offend, never argue with a fool you'll bring it down to your level and experience so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50731	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50732	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50733	Wait a minute, we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Mr. Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50734	Article 238 of the Injury of Rules of Procedure, you cannot insult and use your right to insult me. Besides hanging a target on my back, Hasanbegovic, the general as the only problem in this country as well as Karamark, you can't do it and do it, do you do evil in that way. You're making someone uninvited of something that's wrong. I'm telling the truth and I'm saying what they say about you. I've never been easy. You insult me here, you talk about some warpaths. About your war route are pictures and footage from the Jankovci where I fought against the 1st Proletarian Guard armored brigade from the Kumodrag where my unit prevented the invasion of Vinkovci and the separation of Vinkovci Županje to Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50735	Thank you. I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50736	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 238, but you've already warned him. So counseler Stevo Culej repeated what he had just done, insulted, and disrespected the MPs, and did not stick to the subject he had reported. But I would take this opportunity to also ask as a Croatian defender for everyone else who will replicate fellow Fred Matic to respect everything that this man has sacrificed for Croatia by fighting as a defender and as a camper of Serbian camps. If we don't respect each other, then I don't know how anyone else will appreciate everything we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50737	Thank you. Of course, it wasn't even a breach of the rules of procedure. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50738	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's fellow Matić, you've said a lot of things, I really believe, and you've offended some people by calling the king and queen, and there's always some crazy palaces in the royal court. So it's hard to actually answer your questions about your debate, when you're surprised what defenders and the rise of the defense population are when the register of 5106 has grown to 505,694 since the beginning of your time. Now explain to me what happened at your time when I asked you a strict question to provide me with a list of those who are new defenders and on what basis they gained their status. To this day I didn't get an answer from you, you said let me take a look at the register. Imagine the perfidious response as if I were in the register to see when who was entered and when his status began and who approved it. I don't know what 4.5 thousand new defenders are to this day, who they are, whether they're in administrative proceedings by the administrative court, by any other procedure, or whether you've put them in the register. That's one thing. The other thing, as far as the law and the changes in your time, is that I even commended one thing, which is that the volunteers of the Homeland War who have that status exercise the right to housing on equal terms as disabled and others. And I said that, I respect that, and it's a good measure, but tell me where the insurance money is and it turns out I was right. A dead letter on paper because it was only 4 to 5 years of trying to make it happen, and three of them got an apartment according to a report that came into this House. And that's true. Therefore, I would ask that we continue to end these impatiences and that, together on this, as you have said to the good bill, we decide all together unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50739	Thank you very much. I've got to fix you up a little bit, too. There are no volunteers on the list, there are only combat and non-combat sectors, unfortunately there are no volunteers, now volunteers come into the law. Here you are, the answer of the distinguished representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50740	Thank you very much. So, my colleague Djakic, I told you and we accept, we are peaceful party colleagues, so we will no longer manipulate the defenders. You count us once, we'll list you from the beginning, but it doesn't matter. What Zdravko Mamić would say, I remember you as a top manipulator all these years. So 4.5 thousand, none of them are related to me, nor do I have anything to do with them, they've been given administrative procedures, that's absolutely clear to everyone. But how's it been since '96? of President Tudjman when he said 360 from where God came from, so you're not surprised at the 140 thousand new defenders, and you're surprised at the 4.5 thousand who have welcomed us, these are administrative procedures that have been going on for years, and yet they'll be led even now. But remember all of you here who are in Assembly 505,694 will see you on year 555 with or without a line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50741	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50742	I never mentioned Mr. Fred Matic... the name never in any context or interest in that. But I'm surprised that he's running out of the country for me, Culey and other heads here, I find that thing strange. Since I know I'm not a criminal, I didn't steal the money, I'm not a war profiter, I don't know where his impatience to me comes from, let him explain it to me because 10.4.'92. I don't know where Mr. Matic was, that day I was wounded, and that day Robert Zadro's son died in Kupres, and there were other Vukovars there from 204, more of them died, Mr. Fred knows these people. I just don't know exactly who to talk to if I've never heard of on this side of the right side who attacked Vukovar. I'd like an answer to that question, who attacked Vukovar? The second question, it was a commission on war graves, this isn't ideology, this is the present. The Americans come here, they ask 2 of their pilots from Vis, they have, if they find the remains, they bring them back, they bury them with all those honors, and we steal the war graves commission and hand it over. It's been lifted by an ex... there in that government in 2002, when they took my passport away, those former personnel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have hundreds of thousands of deaths, no DNA analysis. So what kind of state is that? Is that the past? Tell the Ukrainian there, that... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just the answer to those questions of mine, did ever lay down, that first question, who attacked Vukovar, the second question, did ever lay crowns in the center of Vukovar, where he was killed in April of '45. 200 of Vukovar's most prominent citizens. If it is, I'm glad. Because there was also killed, the bishop, the father of Bishop Mrzljak, and that is the fact that it was committed over the Croatian people, which is being kept silent here all the time. And it's good for me to ask to praise the HVO. You may know the facts now because there was a war there for three and a half years. And if it wasn't for those... Sit down today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50743	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50744	Mr. Glasnović, I am sorry to have used you as a symbol of something, for 200000 Croats, young people who have left the Republic of Croatia in the last 2 years. But you know what? You've announced, not yet, but that you're going to kill judges. It's probably next in line then the press and believe me, I'm afraid I'm here somewhere near because I've been declared a long time ago as an unnatural element. And that 2, 1992, when the Vukovars died at Kupres, unfortunately I was in the camp because I stayed in Vukovar until the last day. Those who came out a week earlier, I don't include Robert Zadar, the deceased, who came out five days after Vukovar fell. But those who came out earlier, they had a chance to go to Kupres. I didn't, I stayed with my citizens until the last day. And as for the victims... 2nd World War, I'm sorry, General, that you don't, as you like to say, have no idea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Professor Hebrang was sitting here in the Parliament, for 20 years he argued about the victims after the 2nd World War, tra-ta-ta tra-ta-ta tra-ta-ta. Who brought and who opened 2 only monuments in the Republic of Croatia, 2, no zero and no 3. It opened the left SDP government, huge monuments at Slunj and here in Zagreb, in Gracani, who opened it? Fred, I'm proud of it even though I have nothing to do with the Ustashas or the Partisans or the Chetniks, and as things stand, even less and less with the Homeland War defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50745	The breach of the rules of procedure was raised by respected MP Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50746	So get me to it, it's clean... Insults common sense, that's somewhere in the article. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're not answering one question, first question, who attacked Vukovar, second question... And that someone compared me to the Ustashas. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50747	Comrade Glasnović, please do not abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's an institution that has its purpose and if we start to abuse it, I see that there's such a tendency lately, we're going to do really, really something that, I think none of us want. Therefore, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is clearly defined, it is not a replica, it is not an answer. Someone whose opinion we do not agree with or disagree with, but it is very clear and precise. Let's not abuse her. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50748	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Matic, I followed your presentation carefully, and you went well, and then after a few sentences, you said, as far as I can remember, the law is not bad, because it did not bring anything new, even though in your presentation you were talking about some newspaper in this law. You know he brought a lot of stuff himself. Maybe he could've done more. I expected, given that you spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, perhaps a few proposals and suggestions, which are not covered by this law, that they will be held until the second reading, as a proposal from the SDP. But when you're talking, it's nothing, then I'll remind you, that there are, therefore, the unemployed defenders, the higher amount of the lowest pension, the reduction of the age limit for retirement, more favourable conditions for family retirement. And you were talking about pension work, support for education, the right to an attorney, which we forgot, which was too much of a problem for the defence attorneys, especially when it came to The Hague court. Yes, and here are some government people who have experienced it in person. Then, the records of Croatian defenders, the regional unit of the Croatian Ministry of Defence and the protection of bankruptcy rights. And it would have been good if you had stayed on the content, then you started to give political qualifications, I understand you, because you were a minister, with a little irony and a little sarcasm, maybe some of the good things that you did at the time as a minister, were actually broken down by the statements of the top people of your ministry, which was actually the initiation of an assessment in front of your ministry, when you mention supplies guaranteed by a minimum fee, which was actually lower at the time with stricter terms. You remember those who did not accept it, at the centre, especially in public works, they lost that right, they made a note of it and about it similarly, as well as statements that, let's say, some other army actually did not suffer as much from PTSD as Croatian defenders. And these were actually the initiations of the protest itself in front of your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50749	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50750	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić, I was going to say, that it would be better if this law were called the Law of Change and the addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, because they do not have so many in general. Look, compare the laws, they are what Barisic and someone else's work, you know, quite similar. But, look, the protest took 250 people, a year and a half to eat and drink at the Laguna Hotel, 11 project teams, commissions, and it should have been said that something had brought that promise. Don't say that the reason for this protest is this statement or anything else, so it was completely clearly detected two years ago why it was the cause of the protest. Everyone's already agreed to it, someone can change history any way they want, but that's the data they're talking about. A minimum fee guaranteed, do you think someone in the last fortune of the ministry put money in their pocket? If they'd given me five million, they'd have given me five, if they'd given me 50, if they'd given me 500, 500, they'd have got as many people as there was money. The less funds, the more claims are being reduced, that's logic. But here I have now expressed my deep desire and faith that 82 thousand unemployed Croatian defenders, beware of this being recorded, will receive compensation because they are unemployed. When the law is in those hard covers, bring it to me to eat it, 100% here I'll have it with a glass of water I'll eat it, and maybe without it because it doesn't have the resources. Besides what Plenkovic promises, he shouts only he has, he has, but with one fish he will have a hard time feeding everyone. And as for PTSD once again, I am also behind it, so I lived there and my parents are still near today, so in Borovo Sela where everyone or almost everyone participated in the rebellion against the Republic of Croatia there are no PTSD patients. Why? ... And they're sick and in a wheelchair and with no hands and no legs and everything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no money, there's nothing. We'll see now, new PTSD deadlines are opening for 40,000 demands, who's going to stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50751	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50752	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Matic, I appreciate your contribution to the Homeland War, I appreciate your sacrifice in concentration camps, but as former Croatian Defence Minister you could have prepared yourself better for this topic. This is a very important law, and from your political speech, you could read one indignation, one irony, ok. It's an integral part of your political habitat and whoever little follows your work knows you're using irony. But actually, you've mentioned some new defenders, some speciality of HDZ, again. I will remind you that you have made a statement, which is likely to inherit Mesic's mantra as one of the relatives of the detudmanization, that 150 thousand false defenders and that you will handle it in a few weeks and expect Milanovic, then prime minister, to be the settler for Canada. You recently mentioned again to sell the apartment, to move out of Croatia, I understand your bitterness, I personally would not like you to move out of Croatia but to fight as best you think we live in a better and fairer society, but I will tell you as a psychiatrist, do not underestimate the diagnosis of PTSD. In Israel 9% of the total population suffers from PTSD. The question of potential instrumentalisation and certain secondary gains could be discussed, but would leave it to expert discussions. But you are simply with your way of speaking when you were a defender, provoking and disdaining Croatian defenders, it is an irrefutable fact. I'm a psychiatrist, and I've met people every day. You're talking about Djur of the Grand Hero of the Homeland War that he's a hypocrite. So what do you expect from Croatian defenders? We do not have to agree politically, but try as one public person to advocate the culture of dialogue both in the Croatian Parliament and in Croatian society in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50753	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50754	Thank you very much, thank you for your good wishes. I hope you're not like Dr. Dodig to make a diagnosis over the TV screen. You know, he also got involved in that heist at the time, so he said he reads from Đura Glogogic security, honesty and everything, and he sees everything else with me. Well, I hope not. My dear sir, I hope you weren't even in a physiological prison, and I was everything. For a year and a half because of these here and some of these, for a year and a half, the police were right behind me. Look at my record, I've never parked wrong in my life. And you're comparing a Vukovar defender who destroyed nine enemy tanks with someone, but I can't say right now because he's going to sue me normally and everything, don't compare me to some, he's in a wheelchair and he needs to have respect for them, and he's always been. Take a look at the footage before your team takes it into processing, Mr Matic performs everything despite the difficult situation and carries out all obligations to Croatian defenders economically, an example of good cooperation. Then you cut him off, then suddenly there's another story. Don't tell me that. So you lived through that mountain of insults and threats worse than me, and I endured it. And you know why? Because I'm a better man than they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50755	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50756	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Matic, I listened to your presentations where you claimed that certain defence associations were politicised and that they were practically HDZ branches. I believe that there is some truth in this, just as I believe that as Minister of Croatian Defence, it was not at all pleasant to perform your honorable function. However, I must point out here that unfortunately there are associations close to your site, which are also politicised by you, that they also organise protests and that only members of your party appear on them, which are reportedly citizens' associations. So now that we mention these anomalies, which is that associations are politicized, as much as they are conditioned by the allocation of some financial foundations if they support a certain political option both at national and local level, then let's clear up the situation as a whole, remove that anomaly from Croatian society and let's simply leave the associations to society, and let politics deal with politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50757	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50758	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, you saw it yourself in my presentation I said that associations have been strongly instrumentalized for 27 years by HDZ alone, so I'm talking about over 95% of them, and I allow even though I don't know one, I really don't know which is related to the SDP. But what I'm trying to tell you is that in their statutes, all one association is writing. Non-party, non-profit, non-governmental. Just remember in front of the Ministry of Defense who were there and here you are sitting now and Mr. Djakic will confirm it to you. During my time as minister, as we call it, Mr. Djakic, Mr. Mercep's large association, Decakova, led by the HVIDR, they would never get any lip because I prescribed the criteria, did meet the criteria, did get the funds. As many as there are. I never put any lip in my pocket to deny anyone. As much as there was funding, they got it. They know that I like to joke, I used to say, you know how hard it is to share these associations, I said, close yourself in one room, have 20 million and share. Do you know how to share? Only the only one would survive would come out with that 20 million. No way, they'd kill each other... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50759	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50760	Thank you very much. Dear Matic, there is an old song that says "You should know how to stop when it's over". I really don't understand your desire to continue to engage in some confrontation and struggle with the population in which you were minister, i.e. which in some way, as you say, you have struggled to make such a debate that was more or less fine throughout the day, a little nervous, really what it is when we see that we can almost find a common language, almost everyone around this bill here in the Croatian Parliament because you started here with the debate, the first sentence "Law is bad" in the middle was no longer bad, and in the end we will support it with two or three conditions. So, I get the feeling that you're unsatisfactory as a former minister, that this population simply didn't understand all of your good intentions for her, and it happened to be some new minister. There's a peace, there's a different way of treating that population, and it's trying to make them the most good thing that can be done in this financial political situation that we have in the country. Indeed comparing what we had, with that finale we had on 29 and 30.5.2015 here in Mark's Square, where we have defenders in the Church of St. Mark, we have protests, one government relationship to one population that ends in an almost tragic way. With what we have today, it's not comparable situations. A minister who allows his assistant or someone at a college to say that someone is sprayed or told someone to add one and it would be a mass grave. That population didn't deserve the first human relationship that we're talking about today. These are some mistakes, something needs to be learned and should not be hurt by events that are now slightly different and positive. Here's the thing I wanted to add something to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50761	Thank you. Dear Representative Matic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50762	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Joseph, that means the answer would be the same as Dr. Celic. How sweet, honeyy and kind you don't want any manipulation but when you're in power. So, give it somewhere, you'll probably keep this recorded, and you probably won't be in power forever, so what are you going to think of next? So, the authorities are changing, the furniture's changing, and I'm glad today even here, we almost missed out on Mr. Karamark. So, here I am sorry that he left because here's the MOST screwed me up, every day I have to blink a card and he said that day, legendary day, laws, what laws, so those defenders, did you want it? And now that you've calmed down these associations, when you've got them, when I hear from them, say there was a meeting, I've heard, I think I have friends, too, what INA, Agrokor, these steals hold-don't give, and says legendary slowly, now ours are in power, don't make trouble. Well, Mr. Boric, let's keep this in writing and let it be for good. Here we go. It's like the assistant director's assistant. Any authority would want that when she's in power to form it and not touch it. Here you are now in power, take care of it. You've got a bunch of State Secretarys now, a bunch of other assistants, and you said you'd cut it down. Here, cut it down and then let every next power hold on to it. One secretary of state, five assistants. Two secretary of state, three assistants. Come on, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50763	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50764	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Matic, I appreciate you as a defender, but in this speech of yours, I felt one cynicism, one thing to explain, you asked the question that this man from Serbia who was supposed to agree on our missing defenders, 1500, right, so someone hurt him. So for 25 years we've been looking for our missing defenders, so we're as a people injured, we're a completely injured people, when we haven't found a good man from Serbia who wants to help us find it. That's number one. Then you said that the civilian victims of ten thousand will not be recognized because they are only thousands of Serbs. I feel that it hurts you, that something bothers you. Well, of course all Serbs who defended the Croatian state need the same rights as all Croatian defenders. I don't believe any Croats would be against it. And you know that, too, but that's not what you're interested in. I've never heard you mention Borovo Selo, for that famous monument in Borovo Selo, to say as a Vukovar, a defender, that it should be destroyed, that it didn't deserve to be in Croatia. No, that doesn't bother you. I, as a man, make it clear to you that two ideologies meet here. Pro-Yugoslavian and pro-Communist and since '91. Croatian. Not since '45. Croatian, since '91. Croatian ideology when it had its own country and we want to respect it and arrange it. However, I feel so that these 25 years are constantly breaking that the real Croatian ideology does not go away and that some pro-Yugoslavenian ideology is actually going to challenge everything that is good Croatian and should not be loved but should be constantly accused. Now, that's what I think that story is on that trail and what you're saying, I'd like you to defend the Croatian interests in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50765	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50766	So, dear colleague, every time someone points out that he's a defense attorney, I'd like to do a little combing where he was, what he was. It's usually just some PDs, lawyers, not to underestimate them, but it doesn't matter. 25 years after the war, you never have to tell me that you appreciate me for being a defense attorney. That's it and that's it, that's the end of the story. But Croatia's interests will be best defended by the truth. So obviously you're reading poorly, so don't be angry. So, I've said a million times about that monument, and the other day, I said that flag goes 500 meters away and it's as good as it wants if you were here and you were listening. But no. So, on the missing, I'll tell you. You know who I was talking to? I love you. You know what my colleagues say. I express myself. I've spoken to people on the same tram. And you know why? To get information. And I don't know what I'd do to him, and I don't know what I'd do to him to get information. But if you're the guest who's come, who's been doing it for 25 years, and he's not a rattler, it's certainly not, but you insult him here on a dog car that I allow and the truth. But you can't run politics like that. I mean, let's go down here, so who's stronger than you? So what are we going to vote on? So some people have clearly misunderstood what democracy is and how it is handled. So I've pointed out a million times and I don't need to be reminded that I was a defense attorney. Don't even mention it to me again, though. Because whoever's calling for that means he didn't pay his taxes, so he says I'm a defense attorney, so that's why you're hurting me. This one says I'm only sacrificed because I'm a defense attorney, and when you get into his defensive status, so now I can say, for example, some of them have become so legendary disabled because they turned around with the car when they went to buy beer. Only a fool under grenades goes shopping for beer. But nothing, we're still giving him what he needs. This country gives it to him, and he spits on us. The second wounded 500km from Croatia, he is the leader of the protest. It has nothing to do with Croatia, it is only a Croatian citizen, and it was won after the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50767	Thank you very much. I hope no one's going to get in here after all, but I'd just like to draw attention to something. It seems that in different ways and with different expressions, in fact, everyone agrees more or less and supports this law. Now, if that's the way I want to tell you, then we have another club of representatives and 23 individual representatives who called for a debate. After that, we have five laws left. My rough assessment is that, of course, with all the possible replicas that no one can dispute anyone it will last fat until after midnight. I'm bound to just tell you that. And now I'm going to ask the last club of MPs, and this is the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives, on behalf of whom the Honorable Representative of Rechim Varda will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50768	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to hold on to some way to this appeal from our vice president, so I'm going to shorten my debate. So I'm not gonna use all 15 minutes to give other colleagues a chance. So, Mr. Minister, I would only show myself on article 3 of the bill but with a statement that the club will accept this law in its first reading in the belief that by the second reading we will be able to fix some things. For example, in Article 3, we are talking about members of the People’s Protection. I believe that you didn't mean the total number of members of the People's Protection, but that part of the people's protection that was under the gun. In Article 3(4), you say that the status of the Croatian defender from the Homeland War will prove to be confirmed by the Ministry of Defence. That's the problem! Some associations, including members, so the National Protection battle group led a number of administrative disputes, so judicial disputes against the Ministry of Defence, because simply the Ministry of Defence responded negatively to every request, negatively, and this will happen now if you, as the Croatian Defence Ministry, do not resist the application of this article. Namely, I must tell you that it was the People's Protection in its number since the beginning of the declaration of Croatian independence, by the blockades of the military, by keeping objects of importance to the Republic of Croatia that actually showed the will of most Croatian people to defend the sovereign independent state of Croatia. That the People's Protection actually had ZNG, that parts of the People's Protection, so I'm talking about the fighting part, they were buying weapons with their own means. There's evidence for that. There are also membership cards, and there are also IDs on carrying and holding weapons. So, from the beginning to the end. And you can't, I don't know why, I personally didn't file any demands, personally I didn't because I thought it was my civic duty. I must tell you, and personally, I was the commander of National Protection in Tsravna Marshallka and there was the first dead citizen of Croatia. So from the People's Protection, and even a stone in the defense of the Homeland is a weapon, and not to say we were, there were over 1,500 of us and only a tenth of us armed. So, I speak for the People's Protection battle group, that's all I speak for. Personally, I don't need anything, but you know, when we're talking about confessions, then at least volunteer records, we don't have either that or let's say the president of the Republic advances you to the rank of officers, in the NN writes a lieutenant, and in the military book, so the Department of Defense writes a People's Protection Lieutenant. That kind of act doesn't exist, I don't know what forces within the Department of Defense did it that way and that's why they don't recognize the status. I assure you colleagues and colleagues, that members of the People's Protection are not seeking any privileges, no privileges, but they are asking for at least recognitions, not this kind of attitude of the Ministry of Defense towards them. Namely, I must say, according to international law, if you want by definition of international war and humanitarian law, these are acts of combat and our military terminology. I must say that the Constitutional Court, I believe that you know about this solution, as of December 2014, also gave an opinion positively for that period, for the struggle composition of national protection. And I don't know why we're afraid of numbers. Let's check out those lists that were sent to the Department of Defense immediately upon the end of the national protection, we all delivered them. I must say in person of 1500 my list consists of three parts. One part is the ones who signed up so they didn't come, the other part those who were from the beginning to the end in the fighting section and the third is the ones who went from the public protection to the ZNG, and that's all. But no positive solution and people are normal questions. And this is my mission today to speak from this pay phone because that's what people are asking me to do, members of the people's protection. I'm asking if you were able to do it in '91, including '92. even part of it, freed and run war operations in the battle zone of the Croatian Army without blocking the military, without winning those military, without hijacking weapons, without knowing what I know about what we were doing there on the Assembly Mountain and around. Therefore, I ask you to shorten my request that you, as Minister of Croatian Defence in the application of this law, bring the Ministry of Defence into order in terms of the intensities of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50769	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50770	Thank you very much. My colleague Vard, your debate moved me to a replica and I am asking myself one question sitting, listening to these discussions whether our defenders and citizens of Croatia are at the foundation of this debate in the Croatian Parliament even know what is proposed with this law. I don't think there's practically anyone who can read it. And I was encouraged by your debate, you touched a part that wasn't solved, and we're here today arguing about something that was 27 years ago, and there are so many living witnesses. Then how are we going to solve some of our traumas from the distant past? So some forget what happened in '91. In the spring, they forget what happened in 1.8 when crisis headquarters were founded, forgets that the crisis headquarters were carriers of everything in the field and were also commanders of brigades and people's protections and commanders of the MUP and all, now watch the presidents of the crisis headquarters do not have the status of defenders, but are bearers of the Memorial of Homeland War 1990-1992. So very interesting, we won't talk about it because we don't have the courage. But that's why I'm hitting on each other and what bothers me terribly, and I've been talking about it for years whether I was a member of the ruling or opposition and as a minister, Croatian defenders, because of the dignity of the Croatian state, must not be a protesting monnet. Key question on us as representatives, do we agree that Croatian defenders have these rights or do they not, and then, if we agree, we must ensure that in the state budget. Because I say after this debate how long it takes today to ask any Croatian citizen and defender he unfortunately cannot read from what is said here what Croatian defenders are going to get or will not get, and this is the biggest tragedy of all of us who are discussing here in this way. But I repeat, with any defilement of Croatian defenders, we are muddying the Croatian state because the Croatian state was created in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50771	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50772	Dear colleague Shuker. Ha, I don't really have anything to add to your replica, I totally agree with you. But I was obliged to point this out, if nothing else to the memory of Raven Guard who was killed after the tanks came out of Marshallka towards Slovenia. People's protection prevented these tanks from going to Slovenia, so I owe it to that first dead man to say what I said. Thank you, too, for your rep.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50773	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50774	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Varda. You mentioned what is equally dear to me, extremely important, so it's about members of the people's protection. Before the Assembly of the People's Guards and Brigades formed, these men volunteered, they were members of volunteering, and then when the brigades were formed, I remember and I personally signed from the Defence Office a form came in which we signed that we were mobilized. So at that point they were, they were actually volunteers who called themselves. Later we see the legal proposals, and this legislative proposal introduces a volunteer as someone who spent 100 days, which is actually not a volunteer by its definition. The volunteer is the one who answered alone without a call from the Defense Office. So, especially should they be mentioned, many of them, as you yourself said, are this third group that they later passed to the National Guard Assembly, which remained on the battlefields. But this whole debate today I see these polemic tones being run around, whether we have money or not for certain groups. It would be the happiest solution, that Croatia's economy, that Croatia is progressing so well, that we have enough money, that we don't even ask the question, are we going to be able to meet these obligations that we have accepted, and in that sense I understand also a colleague of Matic who spoke here while he was Minister. I think he made it clear that if there was money, he would have done it. I hope and deeply believe that this government will succeed, because if that doesn't happen, then all we talked about today will be blank letters on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50775	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50776	My colleague, thank you for the replica, that you were actually talking about people who did not have any obligation, not in reserve, nor in the composition without a mobilization call, but what is important, exactly this kind of response of the citizens of Croatia in the composition of national protection, shows in fact the will that we expressed in the referendum. The will of the Croatian people to preserve their independence. And that's why everything went further. Without that, we wouldn't have won the war. They don't win the war, only military units, the war gets the people behind it all. And second of all, I wasn't talking about money at all. I know one fish can't be fed much, but five can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50777	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate and the first one, no excuse, we still have one club, two sorrys. Two clubs. I was a little hurried, the first club of GLAS representatives to speak on behalf of the distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50778	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, we actually express, we welcome, in fact, that the government has given itself the effort, i.e., the competent ministry, to try to make one law, which will regulate everything regarding the rights of Croatian defenders and their families. However, I have already said in the introduction of a replica, in one part of the provision and the rights passed by this law and where these rights are significantly or extended or introduced by this law, we have a problem. We have a problem, from a purely principled point of view, and that is that whenever and in any case, a certain group of people, regardless of what it is about, in this case, Croatian defenders, you expand, you increase your rights, and on the other hand, you have a group of people in that same Corps of citizenship that would be compared to social status or social status in society with those same situations where the Croatian defenders are, bringing these two groups or three or more groups of citizens into a completely different position. If we were a state of prosperity, if we were a country of profile, let's say one Norway, and we could give all these rights that we have incorporated into the Defense Act to all similar groups in our society as rights and extend their rights, we in GLAS wouldn't have any problem with this law. However, what is proposed, and in particular, it seems to me, we seem that some of the provisions in this law are even intruding into the constitutional rights of all citizens, and that is equality. But about that, then, perhaps the Constitutional Court will have something to say about this bill. So we can't put our citizens in a particular situation in a different position. And that, unfortunately, seems to be the law. It means that we are arranged in all segments of society, that we are a legal and social state fully arranged, which adequately cares for all the rights of its citizens, socially existential, housing rights, rights to education, that I do not now list them. Then actually this law would probably be too high, because then all those rights through the system would have everyone. But we have a problem and we have a law that puts a group of people in a special position. Since we haven't all these 22 years since the end of the war, I'd say, you'd dare say right. So we solved problems in a systematic and adequate way, but occasionally, we traded politically with a group of people in Croatian society. We've come into a position that these demands that come from a certain group have no end, no end, and that's what we see in this law. Because under this law, the proposal of this law, these rights are extended in a way that it will affect, firstly, a much wider circle of people than it is already affected by the existing law, and it will affect some future generations, which means that it will cause both in future situations and additional and financial costs, but probably do in our society to further divide because we need to know that, at the same time with these rights offered to our defenders of this law, we have a whole series of groups of our citizens, say unemployed, that's the same category, then one category, then one category of citizens who work for minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, then you have categories of citizens who have worked 40 years, have a full-time job experience, who have retired from 65 years of age, who are far below the rights that we give to Croatian defenders according to the proposal and under these current laws, and these rights are further extended to this law. What bothers us especially is, for example, the part about children. To share children with them according to their children as defenders and therefore have the right to a warm meal, they do not have a certain right of advantage, in relation to some other children whose parents work for the total income of I don't know, 3, 4 thousand kuna, who will not have the right to social censorship of some cities and municipalities on a warm meal, say at school, what kind of message we send when we say these people's children have the right to do so, and these people's children have no right to do so. Or we didn't stop this second part. So if we're a social state, let's stop everything. Of course, we don't have any money for that. And then we actually put ourselves in a position, or we bring our defenders, who would like to raise dignity with this law, we're actually doing the exact opposite thing because we're marking them. Because our defenders, our heroes, our dead in the war didn't fight to be more privileged than some others but fought for a free country in Croatia. I am convinced that the largest majority of all who went to war regardless of whether they volunteered or went through mobilization, that that is why they fought for this Croatia and not to produce laws in which they will be protected by rights and privileges in a way that is potentially even threatened by some other groups and groups in this society, which, by their status, may be more endangered than they themselves. So it's something that's unacceptable to us, that in this way we produce and propose laws in this country. That we're not really equal. And now there's that key problem, and that's that this law isn't really proportionate. There is no principle of proportionality. If we give certain rights, then we need to know that these rights can and must apply to all in the Republic of Croatia, to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Not just the defenders. And the defenders, of course, should be given an extra degree of dignity and should be given respect, but respect and dignity is neither bought nor sold nor measured by money, in my opinion. Not even any extra rights in terms of whether someone will have the privilege of enrolling in a school or college, in my opinion, yes, on equal terms. So with the same results. And not at all costs or in front of whatever. Or a hot meal. So we at our club have a saying, this fundamental problem with this law, which is that it's not actually related when we look at the generals, to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There's always a question of course, there's been a lot of talk about pensions, about supplies, about the meaning of material rights, but here I was when I had a request from our defenders to build their own apartments in the local self-government unit. And now the state, and in the bill of this law, and in the past law, is always very much scattered that it will always come out and that there is no problem at all if there are conditions that these apartments can be built, the defenders then, of course, repay it in one piece, these are not apartments that they get on a gift, but certain conditions can be made easier for them to come up with a solution to their housing issue. I was in a situation where we sent a letter to the state, to our ministry in charge, asking the state to give up, or to leave it to the local self-government unit, or to leave it to those defenders one plot, one location for the construction of these apartments. We've never even got an answer. Not even an answer. Because the unit of local self-government unfortunately did not have adequate and appropriate, because we wanted a suitable space for building such apartments, and so it happened that the state and the owner, not one but two such parcels, did not even answer that question. So she invited us to talk about it at all. ... What? [[You can't hear it.]] No, it wasn't at the time of Pejnović, it was already at the time of the current furniture but I can understand that in the woods some various requirements can be very difficult to meet everything in time, there is already a thank God, almost a year. Of course, our defenders were very dissatisfied with such a relationship and, of course, accused that first instance of government of not doing anything despite the haste that went towards the ministry, they never got rid of it. So to me, that's the question of that dignity now. We can write whatever we want in the law, but if we do not respond in time, if we are not able to solve problems within the framework and existing laws and possibilities that we have, then we are, in fact, showing how we treat defenders. And finally, we'll try some amendments. Yeah, I just wanted to say one more detail, see if I have some more time. In his opening statement, the minister said that statistics say he died, I suppose he meant above the average number of defenders, meaning at an early age. However, my colleagues told me that the statistics of the School of Public Health are just the opposite. Absolutely defenders as such do not stand out in this number of deaths in relation to another population, so it is not true, which means that there is nevertheless a certain level of quality of care for defenders and in this health care area, which means that this is not any argument that could move us to adopt certain rights and certain benefits that would go in the direction of reducing that same data, which is clearly not correct. So we're going to try with a few amendments in the second reading let's say to reduce this discretion we see. So it's kind of an unequal attitude towards the citizens. I'm not going to mention what pension relations are, like, the amount of pensions because they're very different. I mean, in fact, the average of some kind of defense pension and the average pension from work is almost double. It's kind of an average of 2,200, 300 or 500 kuna, and this is average if you took everything away from 5,000 kuna. So that's a big difference. We go from the state to tens of thousands of young people, and I think that when we send these messages that we will treat citizens in one way for another 20 or 30 or 40 years, and everyone else in another way thinks we are sending the wrong message and that we can do another reading if we want to correct these injustices, or at least a little extort them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50779	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a very large sequence of replicas. Now we'll continue with the replicas if anyone else remembers. The first replica was the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50781	Dear colleagues, you have looked back and compared the pension rights of Croatian defenders and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so I feel invited and called to say, to compare one situation to how many women at the age of 30 who had to go to early retirement for 5 years, and her employer kept a minimum wage or did not pay contributions. So the state provides her with the safety of the lowest pension and she will get 1860 kuna pensions reduced by 20.4%. So he'll get 1,500 kuna in 30 years' work. It's not going to be a man's defense attorney's reckoning. It will receive at least 42% of the average of Croatian pensions, so it will receive about 2 and a half thousand kuna for the same internship and will now be awarded according to this proposal for each, for a specific presence on the front line, a increase in, therefore, the days it was on the battlefield. Know only one thing, if these are seen by those who have the lowest pensions, and there are more than 220,000 in Croatia. So it's all of them, especially those who haven't been paid regularly in the last 20 years, or who have been on minimum salaries, so that they don't look favorably, and that every increase in some way harms the defenders and the image, and in some way, stegmatizes the defenders. I pray that in these discussions and in these writings of the law there is a sense of measure, because for some time in our best intentions we can make a completely wrong picture and reaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50782	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50783	Comrade Hrelja, I was just in my debate to highlight this problem that we think may be essential, which is that disproportionateness in the law. So certain groups of people versus other citizens or other endangered groups of people in the Republic of Croatia. And given the overall and financial and economic situation in which it is not possible, because it is objectively not possible to put all potentially endangered groups of people in the same position or at least in a similar position, then we think that it is not appropriate to extend additional rights, means in a particular group and not to think about what you were talking about, which is that someone with a 30-year job experience simply under our laws will have a pension that will be less than minimum wage in the Republic because it is simply so. If by extending these rights we are restoring someone's dignity, I'd like to hear just the right answer from someone who went to the Homeland War from the initiative to defend their country, not to guarantee themselves today or tomorrow a certain privilege. Unfortunately, I have to say that the HDZ colleagues promised it to certain people who deal with the defence population or let's say the waters of a certain association and that they keep their promises, I respect it. However, I have already said, and in the opening of my replica, Minister here we have been elected to speak for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to defend the interests of all citizens in the same way and under the same conditions, and therefore my debate went in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50784	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50785	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened closely to the words of my colleague from the GLAS Club of Representatives and I can tell you that I did a little bit of work on how other countries regulate the status of defenders, people who were victims of war, and it is logical that there are special laws for that. Special laws exist for people who are victims of war, for their families and of course for defenders, as well as in Croatia. That's understood, that's normal stuff. I am happy that Minister Medved made with his team a decisive bill that came from the Croatian government, because if you want to normalise the category of defenders in Croatian society, normalize their role in Croatian society will no longer be. We must achieve this burden in Croatian society, but it will indeed be of extra value. That's what we have to do. When a defense attorney has a problem, he can turn around and get rid of that problem. I've seen it a little bit in France and Britain and Germany and Canada, America. That's how it's regulated. Their rights are normal things and thank God they are. Thank God, too, so we finally defined what they were fighting for, who they fought against, who they fought for. And if it bothers anyone, it has nothing to do with common sense and common sense. That's defined, and for that, I'm also taking off your hat, Mr. Minister, and your team. And we don't interfere with other people's affairs, we don't comment on who's raising a monument to Gavril Princip, who started World War I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50786	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50787	Comrade Kovac, I agree with you that the bill, I said that we expected this bill to, as I say, solve most of the issues, solve them in one place. But we expected them to be resolved in a more adequate way, and first of all, I repeat to the proportion of our country's capabilities, the relative state of society, the social conditions, the other vulnerable groups, the conditions in which we unfortunately have mass people leaving Croatia. And you when you send a message and you send a message that I don't think is uplifting to all citizens. I'm talking now about all the citizens in Croatia and you say a certain group has privileges that will have the next according to this as it is now proposed in the law for twenty and more years, then you send me the wrong message. Now, other countries. Yes, other countries have also taken care of their disabled, but you know how. We, for example, don't have a quality military hospital in our country. Why don't we have it? To that number of defenders, the defense population, I think our country should have a military hospital, a hospital where all our disabled people, people with various damages, would have adequate care, where all of this must be done in skill and in the exercise of certain rights, where they would have adequate rehabilitations, etc. In these ways these countries primarily care for their defenders, veterans, or whatever they call them, and not in a way that puts them in this situation that we're going to put them in, to actually turn them into a privileged group of people that they're going to, I'm afraid that's how it's going to be. One part of our citizens won't welcome it, and I told you which part is also threatened in a similar way or in some social status that this country cannot and has no financial opportunities to adequately solve it, and certain groups solve it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50788	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50789	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I hope to make myself clear. Dear Mrs Đuric, in your presentation you spoke of being equal or more equal or that perhaps the status of Croatian defenders are Croatian defenders in favour of other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's just not true. The Social Care Act when you look at it, it takes great care of all the groups of our society. Of course he has his shortcomings and that he will change as such, in accordance with the circumstances in which we are present, the Republic of Croatia numbers about 503,000 people with disabilities. You know that now it's about the Act of Inclusive Supplement, that it's about other people's help, care, that people with disabilities get and use those rights. Perhaps not to the extent that we would like them to actually have such the best possible help in the Republic of Croatia, that is, the best possible care. When we talk about the circumstances that have occurred, you should know what the Croatian state is based on. That's what Mr. Kovac was talking about now. What is it based on? So you have... about Croatian defenders because these are the circumstances that happened to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it hadn't been for these circumstances, we wouldn't be talking about these things in the Republic of Croatia today. When you talk about these things, which you have pointed out several times, and your colleague Goran today, and you on behalf of the club, then repeat a mantra of civil associations and a certain number of media, which in fact wants to get through to the public because of what you call a privilege. It's not about any privileges, it's about certain rights that these people deserve because it happened to them. In a similar way, for example, me or someone who was on the battlefield who was not paid to contribute, so his pension is also reduced. And something else when you were talking about benefits for Croatian defenders, I'll tell you for the public. The latest data from retirement insurance, participants... have 14601, average pension of 2680 kuna, annually 469 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Members of the executive council of about 4.5 million kuna, members of former JNA 6782, average pension of 3052 kuna, 248 million kuna. So much for the public and for all of us to discuss this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50790	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50791	I will look only at this one part, because I think you in HDZ especially like to manipulate that fact that it is only you and those who follow you, those who wanted the Croatian state. So the Croatian state, its foundation is the will of the Croatian people, is the will of the Croatian people, to have its own state. At the moment that state was threatened, almost everyone was defending the state. I am now not going to go into historical stories, who has been in some areas of the Republic of Croatia, because we know all that. And we know who the aggressor was and we know everything. But that was the will of Croatian citizens, in which all Croatian citizens participated, regardless of whether they were on the front line of the battlefield or taking care of refugees. I personally participated and lived with them 800 and something, for the areas of Vukovar and I know exactly what traumas and what these people have experienced and how they've been through and how they've felt. And I know what was invested in those five years of war by the Croatian people. But I don't think anyone in this country has the right, nor does HDZ, nor does Mr. Glogoski, nor does Mr. Clem take credit for creating Croatia's state. That the only one has the right to speak about the fact that the Croatian state wanted it and that it only loves it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50792	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50793	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Turina Đuric, in your debate, you said you would love to, and I also support that Croatia is a social state and fair to all groups of society. Of course it's in these circumstances, when we have the budget that we have, when we have health dues, when we have problems with pension funds and loan returns problems, it's hard for her to always be socially just. If not, we also heard in the opening report, that over 88,000 defenders are unemployed, that a large part of them are without any income and that there must be a way for those who are working at work to help with the day-to-day development of this society and this state. And so those who work for a certain time and for the salary of 2500-2600 kuna, to raise their salaries and get a contract to work indefinitely, so that they can live from their work, not to go outside Croatia. You said that no one should be shared in society, especially when it comes to children, and that I fully agree with you in this part of the law is mentioned in education, which is commendable, that through the Law on Defence is talked about education, free textbooks for the children of defenders, and I advocate that all children in Croatia have free textbooks and other aids and scholarships that they can study. You said there was no money for it. However, sometimes this little money he has, it seems to me that we're wasting purposelessly, and it is stated here in the law that care about these jobs will now be transferred from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Defence. So it may also be for the public debate and for the minister, to think until the second reading, whether it is necessary, if we double administrative capacities, if there are people at the Ministry of Education who are doing these jobs so that the Ministry of Defence can base them and keep that part of the job at the Ministry of Education, and I think it would save them the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50794	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50795	So I see that most of our colleagues agree on the attitudes around this law. What I'm going to look back on is this when you mentioned free textbooks. So, we also have a situation in Croatia where around local self-governments compete which will enable their citizens, i.e. parents and children, free textbooks and this story is very charming in Croatia. So some local self-government have, some have no chance of that. Now, I'm interested in a situation where in a municipality or city, where such a subsidy does not exist by local self-government, certain children will receive free textbooks, and other children will not get it because that municipality has no opportunity for free textbooks. And in that context, it was my whole debate. We must systematically raise this country in all aspects. And we can't have citizens of first and second categories, third or not. And in some ways we do, the expansion of these rights we do exactly that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50796	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Sanja Putice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50797	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed representative Turina-Đuric is a general banalization that you have tried to equate all groups of society. I will not answer you with the banal truth that the defenders cannot equalize with the other groups because on their backs and lives this country has grown and for which we are actually sitting today in this Assembly and we can advocate improving the rights of all Croatian citizens. But what is not true from your debate, and I have just checked it at the Ministry of Demography, Family and Social Policy, is that this law will put children in an unequal legal position in certain schools, so I want to introduce you to the truth, that since this school year in Croatian schools thanks to the implementation of the European Fund for Helping the most needed or FEAD as it is called. In schools, they are actually responsible for establishing criteria that children can get a warm meal which is much better than before, and so far the property censorship was slightly smaller than 2000 kuna per member of the family, so all such children could get a warm meal, and today I say in schools are criteria. Schools are much better aware of their local environment, their families and their children, thus expanding the circle of children who receive warm meals. And those children who do not enter these measures, the European Fund is also registered for the “Croatian Children’s Foundation” contest. So here you see we have examples of how the Croatian state is working on the equality of all its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50798	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Turina Đuric. He won't? Thank you. Dear Representative Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50799	Dear Vice President, distinguished counterparts Turina Đuric. I've apostrophed two things in your presentation. You questioned money and equality, so here's the fact. This law will not take away any social group. So no one is denied this law, and at last many, many can be helped. What the Ministry of Finance will single out won't take away anyone's bread from their hands is what we're all aware of, and finally rights that haven't been settled unfortunately for too long. A proposal of equality. I wouldn't compare defense rights to the rights of the unemployed or the disabled. On the contrary. One doesn't rule out the other. How many people are disabled or unemployed among the defense population? And as for money, you can't stand for equality in your debate and challenge the right to someone's victims. Not that they don't need money, not that they're given too much, but there's no money that can make up for the life of someone closest or healthy. And what is felt in this debate is not only yours but in general, that perception is such that certain states are with great dignity and with gratitude to their defenders especially the United States. And with us individuals and the media are declaring them not to tell the burden of society and parasites. Well, the winner of the Liberation War can't become a loser and a burden on society in peace. It's sad and it's sad. You mentioned the hospital. How the hospital, if you think the money is already too much and it's contradictory. Why did I bring the United States? Well, because their health care system is only giving away 32 billion dollars for the health care system of veterans.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50800	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50801	Comrade Rusak, I think in some things you've misunderstood me or I don't know, I'm afraid you'll twist And I'm sorry! [[That's not a Russian colleague, but anyway.]] I don't know either you didn't understand me or maybe you didn't want to understand me so you could interpret it the way you interpreted it. I'll just give you a brief answer. The integrity and justice of this country is manifested in our economic and social state, and I will not elaborate it. But one of the worst indicators is that lately people have left this country for not only economic reasons, economic reasons, but also political, or social reasons. And then you think about the basis of all of this that you've counted for me, and your colleague before I've replicated that everything is very good in this country and that people feel the same, that everything is just, that everyone is adequately given equal chances. You judge whether it is or not based on what is happening right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50802	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. You were talking about the discretion and inequality that this law is actually going to produce because the rights it has laid down actually puts the defenders and other groups in the society in an unequal position. As colleagues have already said, I think you've confused pears and apples, because the Croatian defenders we're talking about here today have created this country and we can't even them out with everyone else in society. Of course there are problems in society, there were before and after NOB when many and today still exercise rights as NOB fighters and members of their families. I've never heard anyone ask a question about how much those rights cost in our society. Since the end of the Homeland War, it has often been more difficult for Croatian defenders to ask for something and cost a lot, and they are burdened by these countries. I think the time has come to put an end to it, because Croatian defenders have created this state, they have the right to live a man in peace, because they have given part of themselves for this country. I'm asking if they were in the same position as our defenders who went with the tangerine and the jeans to defend the state with those who didn't go there. Are children growing up with parents who grew up without a father or both parents killed as Croatian defenders? Whether they're in the same position as the wives who nurse their husbands who have lost their limbs or us who have healthy husbands. We can't talk about equality here. So our defenders have the right to a decent life and the dignity you've been talking about, and they can't have it unless they have bread and milk, if they're unemployed and they're forced to be in shelters for the homeless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50804	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50805	Okay. With this law, we may return the dignity of you Croatian defenders, I don't think we will, but definitely everything you do, you are doing in the direction of bringing down the dignity and dignity of every ordinary Croatian citizen, you are definitely doing so with every proposal you make.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50806	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What you should say at first is that this is, it's hard to say, the only but one of the few laws that gave an analysis of the situation and in this demographic and socioeconomic characteristics of Croatian defenders and it's surprising that one part of the MP here was not used to this data because then he would not discuss how he discusses. This data shows that the social position of Croatian defenders is more or less relevant to the rest of the population in Croatian society and therefore only about certain adjustments. I may not be precise now, over 200 thousand Croatian defenders are in labor, 83,000 are unemployed, which is almost 50% of the currently unemployed, as regards pensions, and you today, colleagues Turina-Djuric, said in the morning that defenders are an absolutely privileged group. Today, you're talking about a privileged group, and when it comes to pensions, you've mentioned pension differences generalizing the entire population by speaking about defenders, from 52,000 defenders in pensions, 44 thousand have left under the general Pension Insurance Act, and 26 thousand if I'm not mistaken, if I'm well-adjusted by my job experience with a minimal correction of what they have on the years of internships. Therefore, such generalizations destroy the dignity of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders because they are said to be absolute users, or the entire population of 442 thousand still living defenders, that they are users and material fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50808	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50809	Comrade Tudjman, speaking of data, I've got some data here, so maybe here's to correcting me if they're not good, so let me say about the defense pensions that come out of defense status. So according to this data, there are just over 72,000 users of defense pensions. One information is interesting, so at least the pension of 682 of them according to what I have 682 defenders used an old-age pension that is on average 2,470 kuna compared to that very large population of 72 000, that means those who worked until the end of their employment and will probably still be since one large part of the defenders are still working. The largest number of retired defenders are receiving a disability pension and I absolutely don't have that is a pension that I wouldn't say a single letter, I think they should be more and they're somewhere on average five thousand kuna, but I would love for all such pensions to have all the disabled in Croatia, all of them. And we can specifically form a fund with which we will say ok. The defense attorneys, especially because the state has a chance to add something to them. But out of these 57,000 as much as I have 313 defenders, I wouldn't take a kuna or ever think of it, but I wish this country had the strength to give all the disabled people such a pension, and that's what I was talking about. No one wanted to reduce anything to anyone, but equally to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50810	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues Turina-Đurić, I have experienced your debate as an attempt to say that Croatia should be a righteous society in which every citizen has the right to have the same chance of having a salary, a pension from which he will be able to finance his children's education, will not worry about health care when he is sick and the suggestions you were talking about actually wanted to improve the entire care of the defenders. So it is not clear to me why immediately on the right hand side of the assembly must go one salva replica which is as if it wants to show that the only right hand has the right to care in a quality way about Croatian defenders, which is not true. I also know your work as representatives and as mayor of a town of the Queen, as mayors of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and I know how practical you have contributed to the daily work that defenders live better. What I particularly wanted to report concerns the health status of the defence population, and I also proposed to the Committee on Health and Social Policy as soon as possible to hold a thematic session that will be organised together, and here I repeat it here and before the Minister's Committee on Health and the Defence Committee to deny a single story that has no basis, which is that the health status of the defender is worse than the health status of the population. I call for this session to be held until the second reading, and for the second time as this very high-quality publication, the minister delivers a report that already exists, which is a report by the Public Health Office, which monitors the ten-year state of the defence population by comparing the registry of the defenders and the registry of the deceased, hospitalization data, the number of suicides, and I don't have time to explain what it says, but it denies the fact that the health status of the defence population is much worse than the general population. And that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50812	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the distinguished representative Turine-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50813	A colleague Jovanovic, this right of some, especially a colleague on the right in the assembly, to some kind of exclusiveity when it comes to defending or defending certain rights of defenders, that is something that on this left hand side, it is personally offensive to me and the truth is, you said, I have also acted before the duties of the parliamentary representative and I have worked very well with the defense associations and, among other things, when we founded a memorial home or a memorial room of Croatian defenders for the level of the Primor-Gorski County, collaborated in the best possible way in cooperation, the financial resources were not naturally questionable when we did so. I think that we have made an appropriate space for what our defense population expected, but not only they, but the whole public in our county was also expected to open up such a memory room in which our citizens and especially those younger citizens can get acquainted with the facts and history that our defenders have passed above all on the face-to-face war because they were most attached to it. And also, I was involved in taking care of our defenders as regards health care and social care, and in the truth I must say that in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County, all institutions are tied up in a way that and what is really above the standards, which doesn't seem to be in certain other parts of our country, that down in the Primorje-Goran County, it seems, and that in particular, attention is paid, and I would agree with you, that these statements that defenders are in a much worse health situation, at least as far as the area where I live, I think it's absolutely not true, but here, I support this thematic session that we're going to talk about and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50814	Thank you. And the last replica is the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50815	Thank you. My colleagues Turina-Đuric, I would only refer to two points of your debate. First of all, the part of your debate when you talked about the rights of Croatian defenders' children to a free school meal where I got the feeling that you were alluding to the positive discrimination of children of Croatian defenders and putting them in a more favourable position than children, for example, from socially endangered families. It might be good to look at the facts and Article 123 of the bill proposing that only those defenders who are beneficiaries of unemployment benefits or guaranteed a minimum fee of 800 kuna should have the right to a warm school meal. So, I would like to really talk about the facts here, not alluding to the fact that Croatian defenders have any privileges compared to the other citizens of our country. And the second part when you spoke about statistics related to the premature mortality of Croatian defenders or the death of Croatian defenders at a younger age, I would like to show statistics on which you have at your disposal, just to talk about questionable or unquestionable privileges on one side and on the other, and I would like to discuss all of this today from the position that Croatian defenders are not a burden but the foundation of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50816	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50817	My colleague Bedekovic, I'm sorry, when we started the debate when the minister had an opening presentation, he was sitting next to me, a colleague of Varga, and he opened the pages, and I'm sorry that he didn't have it, and he opened the pages of the Institute of Public Health where, among other things, that information was, but I guess what he showed me wasn't false, but we can solve it together to find it, or to ask a colleague of Varga to show us that information, or where he found them, so I didn't make it up, but I said. As regards warm meals and in general these certain rights, I always appeal to the fact that our social censorships are unfortunately relatively low and in fact many children of parents or their children are in some situation of real poverty or inability to ensure a decent life and these warm meals are something in schools that we have long and multiple times advocated and even in this Croatian Assembly in various discussions that have been tied up in schools, which is that we should return to schools of course and kitchens and everything that went away from schools some 20, 30 years ago and provide their children of course under certain conditions with some co-financing of a warm meal. The worst when you start making differences on any basis among children because they don't know who has salaries, they look at themselves as children, drop friends, they're one side of each other and if we don't want to make a difference between them, then something like that should, if a certain right is already given, provide for everyone. OK, I would agree on certain criteria and not on everything equally. But that everyone has the opportunity to meet everyone and not just some. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50818	Thank you very much. Now the word will be taken by the distinguished Croatian Defence Minister, Tomo Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Given the sensitivity of this issue and the importance of quality and proper representation of all areas, so does this extremely sensitive area related to the improvement and mortality of Croatian defenders. Dear Mr Jovanovic, I am sorry, we have prepared a report at the Ministry of Croatian Defence and delivered it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'll read it here now. Here is a chart that very clearly shows the death rate of Croatian defenders. But as the Croatian Defence Ministry's rate and mortality of Croatian defenders is becoming increasingly public in 2012 in collaboration with the Croatian Institute for Public Health and Medical Faculty of the University of Zagreb, it joined the implementation of a scientific research project to monitor the improvement and mortality of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Implementation of the planned project takes place in three phases. In the first phase, data were analysed on the mortality of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and in the second phase, data on the improvement of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The third phase of project implementation has not yet delivered final results and the report has not yet been drawn up. In September 2016, the Croatian Institute of Public Health received a work version of the analysis of the mortality of the male defence population which has not yet been adopted or verified by the Commission for the implementation of that scientific research project involving representatives of all institutions participating in this project, or the Ministry of Health. And that was very clear on several occasions by the Ministry of Health. Data on mortality in the population of Croatian defenders The Croatian Defence Ministry is the basis of data on dead Croatian defenders obtained by breeding the register or records of Croatian defenders with the queen of the dead, showing an increase in mortality in each calendar year during the 12 years observed from 1998 to 2010, a total of 24 thousand 249 Croatian defenders died. While in the period since the ministry has kept annual and monthly records of dead Croatian defenders, from 2006 to 2017, according to collected, or delivered data, 36 thousand Croatian defenders have died, indicating that there has been an increase in the death rate of Croatian defenders since 2006, the number has been systematically increasing in a way that in 2006 there were 2 thousand and 51 deaths of Croatian defenders and in 2016 4 thousand and 73. We note that the above information for the period 2006 to 2017 is based on data on the deceased Croatian defenders by obtaining a pair of Croatian defenders' registers with the Matica of the dead. What is particularly important here to stress, one of the measures when we emphasized the unification of all important areas and issues related to Croatian defenders is this issue because the Ministry of Health, not one health institution, anywhere during the hospitalisation or providing assistance to the Croatian defender did not keep records of who is and who is not Croatian defenders. So they couldn't or could not have had these indicators. So we are building on this preliminary and unconfirmed report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50820	Thank you. We have two replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50821	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, that's exactly where I was arguing. So that's why I suggested that a joint thematic session be held until the second reading, two committees that follow this area and resolve the dilemma that is constantly repeated today and in the debates and each one that is so public and creates a vague state that throws the picture and our health system. So the data that you just said here doesn't say anything, so if they were to talk about whether more defenders are dying, whether they're more sick than cardiovascular diseases, whether they're malignancies, if there's more suicides, they'd have to compare it to some statistical data that are worth, some postulate, and then it would have some weight. What you've just said is, unfortunately, of course more defenders die over a certain period because they're older, but these data are not data that tells us about the real state of defence. And the goal of such a study is to see what priorities are based on it to reduce their mortality, extend their lives and increase the quality of life in the next period through preventive checks. That's the goal. So when we talk about the health condition of the defense population, there's no populism, no demagogy. There are as we say in medical records based on medicine, there are facts based on evidence and therefore should be done then and everything about care about the health condition of the defence population.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50822	Thank you. Dear representative Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50823	The esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed Minister of the Medved. In the context of today's debate and preparing for today's debate on this extremely important Law in the Croatian Assembly, I also spoke with a number of doctors dealing with the defence population and reminded me of the frightening data and the devastating data for our country, that in Croatia every third day, one defender commits suicide. That our defenders die on average at 51 years of age and from malignancies. Not from cardiovascular diseases like the rest of the population. Unfortunately, I also learned that American and Israeli research also said that 25 years after the trauma was experienced, the most critical year in which PTSD could be affected. So here, so much to understand the importance of this law and to realize that this law is only a good and quality platform and a basis for the adoption of a series of documents, as well as a national strategy to preserve the health of Croatian defenders. As I see it in these documents, that simply, the law must exist as a basis for it to actually remain rights, regulate their health rights, housing and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50824	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will now speak to the esteemed representative Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50825	Thank you, Vice President. A well-respected proposing, with a respected minister, co-workers and colleagues. First of all, I must really join the congratulations on the very preparation of this law, which in the first reading and materials that we have received, it is evident that this study has been abused and the proposal itself, let's say what is most positive in what we can read, that it includes all Croatian defenders, therefore, not so far as it has been for those Croatian wartime military disabled. In fact, both in determining individual rights and above all through a fair way of evaluation, we still have a reduction in age limits and an increase in the temporary retirement pension, which is exactly what the days spent are for. And what we'd like from the HNS Club just to point out a few questions and let's say to contribute to this law in the first reading. First of all, it refers to Art. 26. and further articles on the exercise of early retirement rights and old age pension. By one simple calculation, we come to one, let's say, so I can't say absurd, but to one data that the defender, when he goes into retirement, who had 35 or more years of employment, and unfortunately his average salary, that's a very common case in Croatia, not only for people who were defenders, but in general there were 4000-4500 or less kuna. According to any calculation, the general law goes to include an add-on to 27% or the law on Croatian defenders, i.e., according to a special regulation, its pension ranges from 1700, 2200, 2300 kuna. Therefore, it is subject to a provision on guaranteed minimum pension, from now on here 2612 kuna. And then the question arises that the same pension applies to the defender who got into retirement, so he turned 65, minus a certain number, which decreases during the battle sector, which we have five years or five days of internships. For me personally, it cannot be equated, it is not fair for me, that a person who has spent his full life and has been a defender and has the same number of days spent in the fighting sector has the same pension as a person who doesn't have nearly as many internships and has the same number of days in the fighting sector. And that's what I'd like to pay attention to further, and I'm going to actually make these suggestions, because that's something that certainly doesn't say that there should be a reduction in any defender, and that's a minimum regardless of the working time, but that just happens for those who have an average and personal value of the point, and if in all the calculations that are done, that kind of pay of 4000-4500 kuna in all calculations it turns out that way. Furthermore, what we are not clearly defined in this bill, which is that in many articles in many specific rights and the consumption of these rights arises a term that is new, compared to the previous laws, which is members of a wider family. Namely, this is where I would like to define exactly what it means both in the lease of business spaces and in the housing issue and in the law and you want to enrol, therefore, in all those rights that are consumed by members of the defence family and the dead defenders. That's the term I'd like to define. Is that what's going on with some of the following lines, so we're talking about first, second, third, fourth succession, nephews, cousins, brother, sister, etc. etc. whether or not they would like to be established by law or, in particular, by some implementing regulation. Also, the notion of an extramarital friend, who was transferred here from the general law, which defines family law, but how do you prove an extramarital community? If after the death of a dead defender it's enough to bring two witnesses and tell us we were in an extramarital community and then consume all those rights. I'm just saying that, not to argue for God's sake, they don't have extramarital friends of that right, but simply to avoid certain malfeasances. Therefore, it is also possible to approach a solution because it has been shown in practice that, in particular, any institution proves this either by administrative procedure or by court. Taxes go one way, certain pension rights on another. Of course, when there is a divorce then it is re-determined if there is no agreement, etc. So there should be the same attention so that there is no malfeasance with the rights themselves. Also what you would also touch with Art. 46. related to the allowance and the right to care and assistance services, we have a situation, where unlike the previous law, this time, if a person is a defender in a health care institution, the family continues to exercise the right to an allowance. What can it be? Yes or no, since the purpose of the extra is to help with home care and unfortunately sick defenders. However, in the case of a person’s rights of service, the provision of care and assistance is imposed a salary fee for a person who is about 3 and a half thousand kuna. I think it's about 115 or 117% compared to the disabled. So whether it excludes each other's compensation or if cumulation can be achieved. If this person is a member of the rope family, then perhaps you should consider shutting down the cumulation. If it's a third person, then that extra would still be of some use. Furthermore, as far as Article 167 is concerned, I will conclude this part of the exposure. This article speaks of, regulation that units of local and regional (regional) self-government are obliged to provide means to monitor the work and projects of associations, I am talking about defence associations, of course, in their area in the annual amount of 0.3% to 1% of the original revenue of the budget. In particular, I'm going to say the example of my city, so Osijek. The city of Osijek singles out for all associations in the budget annually, meaning the original assets of 450,000 kunas, among which I believe it I think 100,000 kunas and defense associations according to individual programmes and clearly defined criteria where people appear in the competition. In addition, 600 thousand kunas should obviously be allocated in order to meet the minimum conditions of the original funds. We believe that it can be implemented now that it is limited by a certain amount, so that in the end there are not enough associations that meet the conditions, so maybe not all that money is spent, so not some way that something is saved. But that would mean a million kunas a year for my city, specifically for the city of Osijek. Our proposal to respect the fiscal capacity of each individual unit, so that this is binding at a minimum of the percentage of the total funds allocated in the competitions. That means, if the city of Osijek gives 500 thousand kuna, then sometimes 20% must be for defenders. If he assigns a million, it's 200 thousand kuna. Or in such an amount, think about going in that direction, because I fear that in some municipalities, say, Zagreb is a minimum of 13 and a half million kuna, so it climbs up to 45 million. For Varazdin, that's 321 000. A minimum for Rijeka 400,000 only for funds that must be spent directly on defence associations. The absolute meaning of this law must be and focus is the defender, but we believe that through this funding we must have little hearing and for these fiscal capacities, and we think it would be good to think between these two readings or in reducing this minimum from 0.3 to 0.1 and to see how it is done. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50826	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Curray. We have one replica. Dear colleague Angelko Striker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50827	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this law doesn't just provide for users' rights under that law. So that's where we have the new definition of a participant in the Homeland War. So the Home War participant has no material rights intended for him, but only a moral satisfaction, a confession that he participated in the defense of our country. For example, this applies to all those who are in '91. They're standing in the defense of our country. For example, in territorial defense, the provisions of the National Protection and thus give them recognition. Among other '91s. It was also crucial in creation, but also in defense. For example, in Varazdin the entire JNA Corps is captured – 80 tanks, 70 armored combat vehicles, 18 single cannons, 6 VBRs Plamen, 4 VBRs Fire, 36 haubics, walking weapons for the armed of 10 brigades, 250 different vehicles, hundreds of mortars of various calibers. And so all those who weren't in the M.O.P. units or the National Guard Assembly don't have any rights for now, even if they're morally satisfactory. That's exactly what they're supposed to do with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50828	I thank my fellow uncle. My colleague Curaj's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50829	Here's the thing, I absolutely think we can agree on that, and I didn't say that at first. I think it has been mentioned several times that this law is exactly making this regulation of the status of members of the People's Protection because the previous law prescribed a period during which it was impossible to achieve this minimum condition of 5 months because the period was missing physically for 5 days. And by the way, when I was talking about the users themselves, of course, the focus is always the defender and defense association as some place to gather and worry about this if we can relate to the previous debate and the health and activities of the defenders themselves and their mutual assistance. It's not made up, it's not just us. It's liquids all over the world and absolutely it should be. I am just what I have referred to is related to the fiscal capacities and consequences of this law and this particular article relating to the insurance of funds in the budget for the operation of these associations so as not to get the situation and possibly unnecessary revolt of other civic groups in which to say here we cannot know so much about kindergartens or warm meals in kindergarten. But we have to because I don't know the law and the government told the defenders to give so much. Unfortunately, there will be those who will use it for those purposes. But let's go be smart and let's stop it already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50830	I thank my colleagues for the answer. We're moving on to individual debates. First came the honorary colleague Željko Lackovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50831	Thank you, Vice President, esteemed ministry gentlemen. I want to give my participation in this debate one pain to the adoption of a law that I welcome, but I also want to note that all those who want to speak critically about certain provisions of the law do so very carefully, and then I will at first say that I am a volunteer of the Homeland War and that I fully understand both the population and the defenders and all their problems. So what I want to notice from these numbers that are substantiated by this law is the fact that out of now about 200 thousand unemployed persons in the Republic of Croatia, 83 thousand of them are Croatian defenders, which will say that about 2.5 the ratio of unemployed defenders to the total unemployed, and on the other hand you have the number of defense attorneys who are 200 and about 5 thousand compared to a million 400 so you have a 1:7 ratio. Now, as a policy, we have to ask ourselves why that is, is the problem with defenders whether it's a problem in the legislation or is it a problem in our society? It is therefore evident that defenders in the Homeland War have fulfilled their obligation and achieved the desired goal and created, contributed to the creation of the Croatian state, but policies, social elites and all those who passed the laws, who managed the country in 25 years, have led to the fact that we have a practical ratio of the unemployed to one defender who is not a defender and that we have an employee defender compared to seven who are not defenders. This shows you the lack of concern of all of these generations towards defenders, and I fear that this law is not sufficiently elaborated in this direction, which is to enable and facilitate access to defenders, Croatian defenders towards employment. No measures have been developed here except for those previously existing ones which are now united in this law, which means an advantage in the employment of state bodies and units of local and other self-government. I don't think that's the only solution, but it needs to be given concrete, direct financial incentives for all entrepreneurs who operate in the Republic of Croatia who will then have a significant interest in any defender who is at the Employment Office to hire him and thus give him back his dignity in the best way. We're all afraid here for the defendant's dignity, and you can actually see that from this bill, if you, say, extend the right to a family pension, you're not going to give people a raise. You'll pay them back when you let them get a better job. It is certainly to welcome the fact that all rights must and can be achieved in one place and a number of other positive intentions stemming from the law. But we still have to be careful not to be unjust in these measures and legal decisions. I will mention Mr. Marija Pavlovic from Osijek, the father of three children who spent 1677 days in the fighting sector, retired as an active military person and he will have some problems as well as the other 14.545 retired under this special law because they are not retired under the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and will not be able to benefit from all these advantages that this legislative proposal now offers. In particular, I would like to point out one absurdity that will not contribute to the position of the defender or the dignity that the pension of the late Croatian defender is recognised even if the person at the time of death is therefore 40 years old. You know that there are measures to employ young people and social funds that are considered to be up to 40 years old, and you also have measures for young people in agriculture up to 40 years. Therefore, it is not intended to provide a person with a pension at 40 years of age, and I do not think that it should be the goal nor should this provision that far extends the obligations of future budgets, and it is evident in the fact that persons will therefore have the right if at the time of death they are 40 years old with 50 years of use of pension but in full amount. So now this is no longer about the inheritance and the right to the family pension of a Croatian wartime disabled who has been held to death by a family member but also all of those privileged pensions if he has died, and he has had one day of the war road, so he has the status of Croatian defender, his wife second, third or fourth has no relation which, if she is 40 years old, will inherit the family pension so that she can be privileged and not know what kind. So this is a problem for discussion that needs to be seen in the later course of considering legislative proposals. And once again, I want to point out, we will not achieve as a society in this way but rather as a way to enable and secure a job for each other, just an unemployed defender, because defenders are the part of the population that was particularly emotionally sensitive, who could not suffer injustice, who could not see aggression and who joined the war. I am telling you that the health status of the defenders is more affected by the fact that in Croatia it is not good, that in Croatia the poor lives and that the sacrifice they gave simply did not give birth to the goal with which they were moving into the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50832	I thank my esteemed colleague Lackovic for this debate. We move on to the next debate, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50833	Dear Chairman, I thank you. I welcome once again the representatives of the promoters, and I welcome our defenders who are there on the side of our 100% disabled and listen to this debate today. Once again, I welcome all the defenders who may be listening to us interested, I don't know if there's any more live transmissions but at least online. I especially welcome all my members can be a little personal, members of the Gospic sanity that I spent 1629 days with. I listened to this debate because I had to finish something earlier, and I'm glad that Mr. Secretary stepped up and made it clear that all the partial studies on how they live and how long the defenders live until they're finished, the one that will follow exactly all the defenders because they need to know exactly who the defender is, how much he had when he died, and what he got sick of, we can exactly get the data out. The data currently available on the website of the National Institute of Public Health is only one study but I don't think it's properly set up when making the study that the defenders entered that statistics. Yet some data exist, the current average of a defense attorney's life is 50.9 years and that's a fact. The average life span in Croatia today is 73 years, so defenders live 2 decades shorter. Since '98. By 31.102015, 39 105 defenders died most of the various forms of neoplasm, 38%. So it's tumors. But what's terrible is that from 1991 to today, suicide has been committed by 2,734 Croatian defenders and it's hard to list what could and did not happen during these 20 years after the war. When we talk about the defense population, family members, we know that this is the most vulnerable group that lives the shortest and dies too soon. Today, when we know how much the average resident of our country lives, we need to ask ourselves what we missed. And I think we missed a lot. We've dealt with legislation, we've had some laws about defenders before, but we haven't done enough to help these people. We didn't prepare our people when they went to the Homeland War, people went with their hearts without any psychological preparation, without thinking about what would bring them this war personally except what they wanted to fight for their country. But we didn't prepare or know what to do with those people when the war was over. Early retirement was never a solution, it was a social solution for the state, but to those young boys, I took them to tens and confronted them every day explaining that it was not a solution, it did them no good. One part of them that stayed in the army eventually turned out to be unspective and were fired so the question was what was the solution for these people. But the state was supposed to find a solution to someone other than that retirement thing. And I think maybe it's one of the very important parts of this law that we're giving them back as much as possible in all the armies of the world and that's another career, that's what we had to do a long time ago. That he keeps part of his pension and that we return it to the world of work because they want to work. They don't want to take a pension, they were just forced to take it because for them there were no more seats in the army because we were rapidly reducing the number of military members. So there's never anything worse when you end the war and you lose your pride or someone takes it away from you. And that's what happens to defenders today, and that's why this law is important. I'm saddened by anyone who questions today and compares the defence pension of 2 and a half thousand kuna to the pension of a worker after a lifetime of work. That worker has far too little retirement. But we won't solve it by taking away the defense attorney. The issue of the defense population, their pensions, is one special category. Let's not put people in our country, let's not stand up to the social opportunities in our country, because these defenders live in this country too, they know very well how hard we can actually do anything with pensions that are very small. So, what we need to follow is certainly the social aspect and health of Croatian defenders and members of their families, their spiritual health, the health of their families, how to organise palitative care, so their end of life for those seriously ill and members of their families, and therefore the proposal that a National Strategy for the Health of Croatian defenders and members of their families will be developed is crucial. So, the envisaged adoption is something which is a key document and protection and improvement of the health of Croatian defenders and members of their families is an area that requires a quality and urgent institutional approach. I'm glad we started with screening and systematic examinations, that's something that we're definitely going to do with one part of the defender to prevent the mortality of the outcome, so in time we're going to detect their diseases and prevent the fatal outcome especially of cardiovascular diseases, meaning heart disease, strokes, and malignancies. So when we talk about the defense population and the members of their families, we know that this is the most vulnerable group that lives as soon as possible and dies too soon. This is indicated by numerous epidemiological indicators and mortality and morbidity as well as the results of domestic and international research dealing with this area. But in Croatia, examples of good practice and targeted health care towards this population are really well done in some parts of Croatia, although there is still a comprehensive systemic approach to solving these problems. So, research shows for those who wonder whether it is necessary to move time for them to regain the right to military disability, thus showing that exposure to severe, extreme trauma such as combat exposure or severe physical abuse can have negative consequences in the long term such as health and mental problems and 50 years after the application of trauma. As direct participants in the war, participants in the Homeland War were exposed to life-threatening situations. And artillery-mining attacks, abandoned sniper fires, different weather and hygiene adverse conditions, inappropriate conditions, extremely high and low temperatures, months of war stress. The Assembly Committee for Health and in 2004, suggested that as a special category, Croatian defenders should be led in the health system, special epidemiological studies should be carried out to monitor the health status of defenders, such as special school children, infants, elderly people. It has not been brought to this day, as we have heard. And that is why I welcome, Mr Jovanovic has already told me this, I welcome this initiative and very soon we will organise a joint thematic session, on the topic of the health status of the defence population and recommend, in fact, by the Committee on Health and Social Care and the Committee on Veterans, what would be necessary to bring the national strategy as soon as possible. Something about data that's relevant to suicide. So again in 2015, Mr. Psychologist, Mr. Komar and Elvira Koić published their own research into the suicide of Croatian defenders in Zagreb and Croatia. In which they analyzed the data from the Croatian defenders' register, the Croatian Ministry of Defence for those who asked if any research was done. And already there were known data on double suicide rates among Croatian defenders in... the population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the rate of monitoring for the improvement and mortality of Croatian defenders, as a particularly health-threatening group, should have been a common task of public health and follow-up, this has not been done so far. Has the community made it possible for Croatian defenders to have conditions in which, as winners after returning from the battlefield, they could achieve the expected maximum of their working and intellectual abilities? No, I don't. Did she try to make up for at least a part of what the war brought back to them? No, I don't. The published results of the study by Mr. Komar suggest that war trauma was followed by stress as a result of society's relationship with Croatian defenders has accelerated the development of psychosomatic diseases and conditions such as cancers, which are actually the most common causes of Croatian, mortal Croatian defenders. So from 1991 to the end of 2014 suicide was committed by 2734 Croatian defenders. Most in Zagreb. Where 55% of the defence population of all Croatia actually lives. In Zagreb, 320 people committed suicide, which means 13% of the total number. These figures are definitely lower than real because some suicides may not be as official and certified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50834	I thank my colleague Ines Strenja-Linić for this debate. We're going into the next debate. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50835	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear ministers, guests, colleagues and colleagues. Here's after we've been on behalf of the MPs' club and after a full day's debate, I think we've already come to some conclusions after the first reading. Of course there will be another reading when we can make amendments. I believe the minister heard those questions we asked. Among other things, which is why the defensive status was obtained by persons who were in the army in '96. A year. And now I'd like to mention a few more things from the law itself. The very law for the first time introduces the institution of a volunteer of the Homeland War. I think that's a good thing, with a volunteer only having access to the defense of his country before 15.1.1992. Also, what's good is it's good to reduce retirement pensions. So to those people who exercise their right to retirement, that since they don't have a full-time job, that they don't have that kind of penalization, like other employees, it's important because, at the time of the Homeland War, really many young people haven't had a chance to work, they haven't had a chance to study, many have lost years at the study, one or two, and they might eventually miss it, that they won't be able to achieve a full-time internship, and then we don't punish them too much, this penalization, so it's not so strict. What appears in the law, however, is the policy of hiring Croatian defenders. And that's where we come back into the space of theory and practice, where in fact this legislation so far has offered solutions, at least on paper, but... Croatian defenders couldn't hire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They couldn't have. Now we hear that 82,000 Croatian defenders are unemployed, which means that out of the total number of unemployed, they make 40%. Which turns out that Croatian defenders are predetermined for unemployment and have the right to be employed, to have the advantage of employment, when they have the same conditions as other candidates. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say something from my own experience. In order to get a job, after completing my studies, I had to write one 16, 17 applications, I wrote a lot of applications, and in each of these applications I wrote that I was a Croatian defender and I called on myself to have an advantage in employment in the event of equal conditions. No one respected that legal article. When they no longer knew what to do and where to go, the employers simply canceled the competition. So they were canceling the contest, they didn't receive anyone, but neither did I, then go on, the method of exhaustion, until somewhere else, the other man decided to go or take him somewhere else, so these laws were, in fact, not being implemented. And the question is really now, given that this rule is already before and is now being better defined again, the penalties for the employment of defenders are being tightened and it is indeed a question of whether there will be a larger outflow of Croatian defenders from the Employment Exchange. Also, when you read those legal articles about the housing of the defenders, it looks great, you would say, well, all Croatian defenders will be taken care of, but this residential care, therefore, has been spoken of for 15, 20 years and again when you look, when Croatian defenders have received an apartment it is very little. I personally don't know anyone. I saw on TV that several keys were shared in some buildings, but I really think that even a large number of people with disabilities have not yet been taken care of, let alone in order to be taken care of by Croatian defenders, their families. It is especially mentioned there in the law as much as anyone has to have squares depending on the number of family members, etc. In practice, however, there is no such thing. And there is a very important role of the Ministry of Defence as well as of all other institutions of the Republic of Croatia that not only laws are passed, and we are masters in Croatia. As one MP said, the law on law enforcement must be passed, it practically turns out that way. It means that we pass the law and that after that, that law remains a dead letter on paper. As I mentioned the same case we have with these famous shares, people get shares, those on paper worth 15, 20, 5,000 kunas no matter how much, and you can sell them for zero kunas and the state says here we've respected the law, we've given the defenders some kind of compensation, and he didn't actually get but not exactly any of what he participated in the war or lost health as Mr. Misko Balog. We also have this problem as mentioned by the representative Strenja-Linić, the pensioners who did not. So we have people who could work, who have the ability to work both partially and fully, but who today simply don't want to return to the labour market for the simple reason that his pension is twice as much as he could get paid in his profession. So someone has a pension of $6,000, so now what's they gonna leave their pension to do for $3,000? And so it's not good, and it's partly not good because defenders don't have enough education to get into the labour market. Did I not have time to study it, or was the Ministry of Defence involved in the requalification of Croatian defenders? Is it costing, is it actively involved? That's what I'd like to hear or be instructed by someone from the ministry to see if anything concrete has been done. That would therefore be in the shortest lines of any reference to this Proposal for a Law on Croatian Defence. I hope that other MPs will also give their view that in the second reading they will give their amendments, that we will get a quality law that will not be too broad-minded, that will really protect those groups of citizens to whom it is intended and on the other hand that after this law there will be no tails left, that we will not again look at some unloved scene to protest, that someone is raising revolutions, even worse to threaten the Government or I don't know who, that a fair, optimal, sustainable solution will be found, and that we will finally close this issue, to turn to the future, because at the end of all Croatian defenders have fought first to ensure a better future for all Croatian citizens equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50836	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for this debate. We have two replicas. The first replica of a respected colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50837	Thank you, Vice President. I'll just say briefly, despite all the shortcomings and perhaps the shortcomings that my colleague Bunjac sees, we should somehow and sum up sumumum, given that this is already a late hour and should objectively say that such a systematic law that detects all the weak points so far, we haven't had, despite what you see as deficiencies. But more importantly, that the weak points have been detected, that long-term problems have been detected is that for the first time ever these problems have been approached comprehensively, that several ministries co-operate with other ministries, that there is what we always complain about, and the opposition that there is no synergy, that there is no symbiosis, that there is no analysis, and now there is everything. And in every sense, for the praise and initiative of the Minister of the Bears and the initiative of all those who participated in this and those who gave the greatest pain to write this indeed is an extensive law, and we see how many articles there are. And if there's any loose ends, then there's going to be another reading and of course it's going to edit. But what I said, summa summarum when we read these articles with explanations then we see that this law so far is the biggest shift in this area and it is an indisputable fact and it should be said clearly and aloud. This law doesn't discredit anyone, he doesn't discriminate anyone, he's moving forward in the sense that he's trying to help the needy, the defenders and those who haven't had their rights regulated so far and never goes backwards, he's just going ahead, and that's responsible power to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50838	I thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50839	Thank you very much, dear colleague of Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic, for your comment. You see in this law a certain shift and it is undeniable. The very proposal of the law is and with those reasoned there are some 300-pages and more pages and as they would say already its scope shows that it has been seriously handled. But you must be aware of one fact, and this is that any law, any rights that we give to the Republic of Croatia must be sustainable in relation to the budget. So if these rights, we can now promise whatever you want to anyone, but if it's not sustainable from the budget, then in the future we'll have another dissatisfaction, then we'll have social conflicts again. And I wish to you, personally and to all HDZ representatives, that when this law is passed, that there will never be any more threats to the protests, that there will never be a story of a), b, c) and d) options, that there will never be another government meeting that should be discussed in particular about any demands of the defenders, etc. I want you to really live this law in such a way that after that about Croatian defenders and their participation in the general political and social life of Croatia are only positive. However, knowing the situation, I fear it may not be a month or two, and we will again hear stories about how Croatian defenders have been neglected and how they did not get this or that. So let's wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50840	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. We have another replica after this debate. Dear colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50841	Well, Your Honor, Mr. Bunjac, you've got me all wrong. So I'm talking about defenders who will finally have the opportunity to go back into the world of work and do it, because they want it and they need it for a better financial situation in their family, but also for their mental state, to feel useful. Thousands of them felt bad after the Homeland War ended and after certain years as the number of members of the Croatian Army was reduced when they were getting rid of each other slowly, the reduction of the number one great one was retired. And those pensions are not such that they would now give up and remain retired. And I'm glad, so you need to read this Article 29 that exactly says that, this article provides for the possibility of hiring an old-age pension user achieved by the basis of this law by half the time or even one part of them will be able to completely freeze their pension, will not lose. The labour force is missing in Croatia. Part of them really wants to, I know a lot of people who are working in the gray zone right now because I can't make it happen, and this is what we're opening up that possibility with. So the defenders want to work, and now we're opening up that possibility to them and that's good for them. But I also don't like the way their pensions are mentioned because one more time we need to do it here. People ended 71 years after World War II. We're still paying off those pensions. So let's not mention our defenders just from the Homeland War, let's mention you. I don't think so. 15000 is a pension that, by the way, is a living pension, so those who were supposed to be members of the Liberation War, 15000. I don't believe that there were so many children between the ages of 8 and 10 who were all couriers and all spent four years in the People's Liberation War so that now 70 years after that another 15,000 would inherit those pensions. One part is their widows, one part of them who may have definitely been in that system looking for some faults. Mr. Orepic has already spoken of missing, all of it, the one who wants to abuse this law absolutely punishes. But let's not look negatively at the defenders, because they didn't deserve it. This law restores the dignity of our defenders, and it must be a consensus for all of us in this assembly. And that's why this law needs to be supported by all the clubs in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50842	I thank my colleagues Strenja-Linić and the time you adhere to. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50843	Thank you very much, very much, very much. Thank you, very much, very much. Well, of course work is an honor, work is a pleasure, work is a pride, work gives a man a meaning of life and, therefore, deplaced to talk about that someone who retired at 30 or 40 years of age has therefore fulfilled their own life goal. However, you here, which you should look back on. That now, under the new law, those pensioners who want to get a job have the right to retain their pension. And that will allow them to return to the labour market. So, he's gonna work, he's gonna get paid, but he's gonna get a pension. Well, that hasn't happened so far. And for this reason, many did not want to work, but rather when they had to choose to keep their pension rather than work or keep their disability, they stayed at home again or, as you say, worked in a gray zone, etc. However, regardless of all this remains the problem of 82,000 unemployed defenders, there is still a question of competitions which are therefore being played, where in advance, by some political likeness or by some lack of knowledge of who will be employed, and those people who have, therefore, rights or other professional qualifications simply cannot get jobs. And that is why it is very important that I repeat once again the functioning system of these public competitions, the employment system. And the best thing would be for society as a whole, and then Croatian defenders would find their place, they wouldn't have to seek special protection of institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50844	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Zeljko Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50845	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian defence ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. After a day-long debate on the Proposal for a Law on Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families, what is looking forward to is the fact that the political thought of representatives in the Croatian Assembly on Bosnia and Herzegovina, the realities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, could be heard from the debate when the relationship to the protection of the rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council could also be seen. What is not good, and what we also heard today, is that in the context of the debate on the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders aims to oppose the different social categories of Croatian society, which is very ugly, and that it still leaves itself concerned that a part of the fellow MPs do not understand the importance of this issue in the right way. When it comes to members of the HVO, this relationship we could hear today, we should first of all thank the employees of the Croatian Defence Ministry who have found a way to discuss with representatives of HVO associations all the issues in question and come to realistic conclusions on the possibilities of spectrum of protection of the rights of Croatian defenders, members of HVO who respect the socio-economic realities of the Republic of Croatia. What is being objected by members of the HVO and which, unfortunately, does not stand is the fact that budgetary opportunities should be created in order to apply certain provisions of this law as of 1 January 2019. I believe that this provision on the application of the law as of 1 January 2019 was taken into account also because of the socio-economic reality in the Republic of Croatia and the budgetary possibilities of the Republic of Croatia. What is important to emphasise when members of the HVO are concerned that the rights of members of the HVO have therefore been protected, that new opportunities have been opened in line with the realities without legal interference when it comes to the status of Croatian defenders. What is important is also highlighted and what is well noted by colleague Linic would be important after the second reading to adopt this law with the maximum consensus, the maximum possible consensus in the Croatian Parliament because it is a significant message due to a series of real moments in some other powers in Croatian society which I believe the largest number of colleagues will understand. When it comes to members of the HVO and the possibility of this law, the motion also takes account of the circumstances that are lower in BiH than in the Republic of Croatia as defined in Article 129 and Article 142 when it comes to the possibility of secondary legal assistance to members of the HVO, therefore a legal service which is unfortunately needed by a large number of members of the HVO in BiH against which BiH trials are conducted with double standards in relation to members of other troops in BiH who participated in the war in BiH. When a contract was signed between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on co-operation in the field of war victims' rights in BiH in 2006 then a detail took place that will need to be taken care of when new Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Co-operation Treaty is signed, so the powers of the BiH war victim, between the Republic of BiH and BiH, and this is the fact that this contract was the subject of both discussions and decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. In fact, although members of the BiH presidency agreed at the end of 2005 to a proposed contract between the Republic of BiH, the Bosniaks' Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly therefore launched proceedings before the BiH Constitutional Court, noting that this proposed contract was destructive in the interest of the Bosniak people in BiH. So because of the reality of relations primarily with the Bosniak policies towards the Croats in BiH, according to the Republic of Croatia, one part of the provisions in this law have been warned in a certain way and the dangers that are very important, which is the subject of a quality approach analysis, so these risks in the realisation of the protection of the rights of members of the HVO. I believe when there are different circumstances, so also in Croatian society, so when the socio-economic opportunities of Croatian society are different, when changes in the international circumstances that the spectrum of protection, so the rights of members of the HVO will be in one part, respecting the reality of Croatian society will certainly be defined and realised in a more appropriate way. But as a BiH Croat, I appreciate all that has been done so far, I believe that this is one very valuable foundation in relation to other issues when the Croatian people in BiH are subject to processing within individual laws. The fact that it is also pointed out today is important to take care of the equality of Croatian citizens. So I think that this very example of a positive attitude towards members of the HVO is exactly what this commitment to the equality of Croatian citizens is about. Namely, only 9 Croats and 1 Croatian aide work at the Federal Defence Ministry in Sarajevo, with 56 Bosniaks. So this testifies how disabled Croats are in terms of protecting their rights. In BiH, the engagement of the Republic of Croatia in a certain way compensates for all shortcomings in our position in BiH. Finally, I thank the Croatian Defence Ministry staff for taking a realistic and responsible look at the position of HVO members and giving them responsible attention under the provisions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50846	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Raguž for this debate. We have two replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50847	Thank you very much. So it is generally known that the Croats from BiH were numerous in the very beginnings involved in Croatian troops before the very recognition of the Republic of Croatia, and there is no debate about it. The fact is that the HVO played a major role along with the HV in fighting in BiH, mainly in the part of the signing of the Izetbegovic-Tudjman agreement in the villa Dalmatia in '94. years in Split. However, what was the Croatian policy towards your regions? She wasn't a state girl. We have a six-year-old in The Hague today, only a year ago the justice minister first visited, any of the statesmen left alone these generals. They didn't care. Bad policy, above all, was not a state-run from Croatia towards people in BiH, and also your representatives in BiH did not protect the interests of both members of that people and members of the HVO. And the results are evident that more and more people from these parts are leaving and evicting what is in Croatia, and unfortunately mainly in third countries. There is no difference between the Croatian defenders, I am saying this from personal experience because I was in BiH for a year in the Homeland War, but politics are bad. Triba also admits you from BiH that the Croats are not well enough, and in particular it was not a state policy from Croatia. It was politics, so I don't know how, trying to buy small interests. There the tiba people subsidize to stay alive and then the members of the HVO who gave their lives will realize their ideals. And not to have an empty Herzegovina and Bosnia, that we have an unprotected border on the Republic of Croatia which is a national threat and Croatian territory and therefore the bad policies of Croatia towards the people of BiH are evident and the results are visible. That is why we must fight to keep this people alive in BiH, and Croatia to assist in accordance with the Constitution, to help our Croats in BiH what is the obligation of the Croatian state. And that has never been done before, so loud and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50848	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50849	My colleague Bulj, not a double of your good intentions, would only say that it is complex to act politically in BiH and complex and complex and help Croatians in BiH. What's important is that there's progress that I've been talking about, and we're not going back to the earlier periods when certain representatives of political parties have been irresponsible to the Croats in BiH and I think it's time for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50850	I would like to thank my colleague Ragujo for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50851	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Raguž, I was very impressed by this individual debate of yours, especially when you said in the first sentence that a political thought has progressed among the political parties in the Republic of Croatia regarding the situation of Croats in BiH and only the BiH issue. And this should be discussed at least once a month in this House and open certain topics related to the position of Croats in BiH as a constituent people, especially in complex political relations that you have now said in the replica of counterpart Bulju. I would not have agreed if there had been no help before, if BiH had not been thought of in a different way. You praised the Croatian Defence Ministry's proposals that it has now shown one greater sensitivity regarding respect for the protection of acquired rights, but also for extending certain rights of HVO members. The situation or situation of Croats in BiH is extremely important for the position of the Republic of Croatia. The stability of the Republic of Croatia depends on the situation of Croats in BiH, the survival of Croats in BiH is strengthening the stability of the Republic of Croatia. The sooner we understand this, I like to say that the issue of all issues for any politician in the Republic of Croatia as regards the issue of the position of Croats in BiH, I am particularly pleased that you have presented it and said it in your opening statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50852	I thank my colleague Babic for this replica. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Vlaho Orepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50853	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to expose it to some two wholes, I'm going to call it a technical review and one essential reference to the essence of this law that is extremely significant and important, and which we at the Most Club really have access to with great responsibility and awareness and outside of any populism, we want to contribute to making this law one whole that will be acceptable to all of us here in the Croatian Parliament. So here I am now going to take this first piece of technical flight, maybe I'll be dry and monoton, but it's going to take a very short while, but just to get into the record and I think they're specific things so, and we're going to deliver it in writing. So exactly in Article 4, we propose to delete the words to be recognised by the status of HRVI from the Homeland War of the First Group with 100% damage to the organisms, and to give all defenders with a problem that faces the above-mentioned group of defenders the same rights and opportunities. In Article 6, we propose to abolish the time limit for point e as we seek the same time limit for point f, i.e. December 31st 1997 as well as points c and d. Article 30. We propose that the new paragraph 5 is added in Article 30, which reads as follows: ‘The law on the reduction of pensions of certain pensions, i.e. those made under specific pension insurance rules, will not apply to persons referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article starting from 1.7.2018. In Article 46, we propose that the Constitutional Court's decision, which we state, will give you in writing, shows that the pension reduction is linked to the person and her needs, not the family pensioner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We propose Article 69. In point (a) of Article 69(1), the word ‘owned’ is replaced by the words ‘use’. In paragraph 5, the word “indemnity-free” is replaced by the words “to be used” and at the end of the article a new item is added, which reads: “When the new car is taken over from the Homeland War with damage to the organism of 100%, it is obliged to hand over to the current ministry which will be awarded to the needy according to the public competition.” means Article 101 and 102 to define an item on HRVI from the Homeland War without income. And under b) behind the point "K" is added a new point "I" which reads: "Children of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders." With this I exhausted this part, but you will also get in writing, so here it is. As far as access to this law is concerned, I would like to stress that I speak as a Croatian defender from day one to day. I speak as someone who does not exercise any right and speak as someone who is deeply aware that Croatia is a deserted and unprotected country. To talk about any law on anything, not to talk about the context in which it is at the moment and the state in which it is located both the people and the state think it is irresponsible and... I will immediately conclude that I welcome the intention to frame the law into one whole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia really needs to take care of the defenders and the victims of the Homeland War, it is certainly when I tell the defenders, I talk about the defenders, whether they are from HVA or HVO, etc. To me, he's a defense attorney, a defense attorney. But we must not allow people, unfounded, to achieve the baseless status of defenders and to also abuse the status of defenders. We simply must by law prevent the unfounded acquisition of status and abuse of that status. We must not at any time allow ourselves to be viewed as a privileged caste by defenders, and this will not happen if we are realistic, if we are objective and if we are out of our ranks all the false ones there are and who abuse both this country and this people, which we clearly drive out of our ranks. And I really mean by respecting the circumstances in which the state is located, the people are not allowed to do a single kuna, I repeat not a single kuna to assign to the Republic of Croatia, nor our children, our future. We have to move within what we have. We should schedule if we should even more justly schedule what is already being deployed according to the needs. In this spirit I really stress what is very important to install in this law if someone has damaged or damaged the Republic of Croatia, be careful from the moment on which he obtained the status of defender until now or until now when in any way damage to the Republic of Croatia he needs to be deprived of the status of defender and all the rights that come out of him not only with a look at three years, not just on some kind of monetary income, but simply everything. That's what I'm saying, and with these words I'm going to conclude. I think the defense attorney's status is right to honor, first of all, not the right to some kind of right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50854	I thank my colleague Orepic for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50855	You have presented the changes you have said, the changes that should be and which articles should be changed. All that you have read is in essence officially delivered by the service and the minister, so we sincerely hope that until the second reading what might be accepted will not be accepted in the form of amendments, just to point out, but in the form of proposals that you can take, which the ministry can take into consideration. Yes, I would agree that the defense register is honorable and that the triba be honorable people on it who defended their homeland. However, we can talk about other registers. Let's say war profit registers, deserter registers if there are, and probably there are, and it is crucial that war profiteers who created their empires in the circumstances of Croatia's creation. This morning we noted that the triba register of aggressors. And those who raped are still walking through Vukovar. That's what people who, so they were victims, and now they just have to look at their villains, their executioners. Because it is amazing what counterpart Linic said that Stanimirovic will one day, the mayor of Vukovar, in the war, sit in this House. So there are a lot of these things that this society needs to do for the sake of justice towards the Homeland War, according to the foundations of the state. However, mockery with the Homeland War as is done by fellow Pupovac and this will not be answered by Prime Minister Plenkovic bringing the entire Homeland War beyond true borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50856	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. The answer to my colleague, Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50857	Comrade Bulj, it is true that we could make an infinite list of some kind, etc. We need to make clear the fact that we are truly a poor and disfellowshipped society. That's a fact. We need to know that workers aren't getting paid today. We should be aware of that. We need to know that society is unfair and that people go from the Republic of Croatia not because it is an economic crisis. I believe we're honest company, so we can stay and fight. People go because they don't trust the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. And we have to change that. And I think the Defense Act, that defenders are the same as in '91. They went to defend this country to no one, and they didn't ask or ask for anything, that this is the moment that this point, in which we can change the story if we're mature enough and smart enough, and that we're uniquely starting to create some new values in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50858	I thank my colleague Orepic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, an individual, respected colleague, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50859	Thank you very much. So here I am, at the very beginning, going to say that I support access to work and this law and that I will support it as such, and of course I will vote for it, because it has been corrected by many unjust ones, and so many dignity has been returned, or, rather, it will be returned. But that doesn't mean I don't want him to be any better. I'm not going to make it conditional on my vote or my date, or the appearance of any article, by formulating some article, as I like it, but I'm going to try and suggest that it be better and more quality from at least my angle. And most people will decide whether I was right or wrong. Therefore, I would start from Art. 1. You know that he brought a certain controversy, there were some debates, stronger, less intense, etc. But I read somewhere where Minister Medved said that the foothold for that article, Art. 1, was found in the Homeland War declaration. So here's why I'm not spreading that question, I'm not explaining it, but the time has passed and I'm just going to say that here I am calling both the minister and his associates, to Art. 1. In accordance with the Homeland War Declaration. It says so clearly, and such a declaration is what it is, but such a declaration is in force. As regards Art. 3, 4. 5. Yes, after so many and so many years, here, finally, dignity will be given to volunteers of national protection, injustice will be corrected, that is what I support, personally and with many colleagues from the Defense Association, I have torn up a lot of shoes, so that among other things we can fight for this status. They blocked him, I'll say bureaucrats and obstructed from various levels. A lot of this took part during that time and DORH's interpretations about when status is recognised. So they came up with this to be July 30th, i.e. the 1.8th, because at that time, an order was given on a higher level of organisational level, and it is well known that people's protection was founded, i.e. President Tudjman set up an interparty council just for national protection, for defence, 15.3. It is important to know that they had no status, at least those who had a war schedule, had no status, had no status, had also had some false interpretations, only because some bureaucrats didn't know or wanted to know, and then they were persistent in that effort, so they determined that the 24.12. deadline was when the klapra was put on and when it was no longer possible to recognise that status. However, it is clear that President Tudjman has made the decision on the establishment of home affairs, which he has made on 24.12., in fact, clearly states that it is in effect 30.1. And then the legislator added nicely, that it takes 150 days to recognise the status. We all need 100 but for people's protection 150. And you could have planted yourself on your head but you're 144 hours short or 6 days short to get that status. And no one could, and no one was able to make it happen. And it is known very well that these people's protections were actually volunteers, were defenders, who bought weapons with their own money, ammunition, and with clothes and food from home they volunteered, without mobilizing calls, without material benefits, without wages, without jobs to defend their homeland. Here, I say we were dumb, from the Ministry of Defence, to the Ministry of Labour, to the inspection, to the Parliament, the only one who succeeded, I congratulate him on it, not there, but I already told him, and on the board is the minister who, Minister Bear, who nevertheless respected it and had the strength, courage, and I will say the honesty to put that part and that segment into this law. I'd like to say something about the article from 101 to 103, so that's an advantage in employment. Interestingly, by 2004 it was all about employment. So the Croatian defender had priority in employment and point. In 2004, the new law, i.e. the amendments introduced, introduced that those who have to call a public tender or a public advert. But what happened then, what happened then? Just when you take it, we said 82 thousand unemployed Croatian defenders. We said the average is 51 years old. We said it was mostly a middle or lower professional preparation that makes it difficult for you to get a job. And you see right where they can get a job we've made a blockade, or we said they don't have to call the competition. They don't even have to sign an ad. And that's where the short date started. The ministry, I wrote to all addresses possible, the only one who accepted and answered me through the parliamentary question was Minister Bear. I have to say, it's a fact, it's life, it's truth. And what he said, what he promised I'll say he tried to do. It's not enough because instead of the Ministry of Labour going through the change and everyone has to call that public ad for employment, I'm not talking about private, I'm talking about those companies that are, the legal entities that own the state, the city, the county, etc. It wasn't going through that segment, but it tried to solve it in an easier way through the Ministry of Defense, which is to add both the formulation and the internal advert. Right? Now look at it this way. You must know, I can give you materials from inspections that have established the facts in these and such companies where they don't even question an internal ad but simply have a fund of people who write them applications, they create this fund and then they get out of that fund when they need it. That means I bring in the hand you need, and I hired him. So I suggest that we might add more or otherwise, then we can work it out, but I think that we should also work with the Ministry of Labour to make sure that there is a requirement for regulation and advertising and competition and for those legal persons. And what I would say at the end of Article 214, I also said on the board, so far, it has been the write-off of outstanding claims to loan users. So 3655 loans, that's 320 million, paid off 67, were written off on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance. Now it was a good intention, I agree, it was a good intention to write off everything there is. And she arrived, she missed it somewhere in 1759 credits, but that's 300, with interest tightened and regular, that's 313 million we need to write off with one move of feathers. I'm not about to raise my hand in Parliament for 300 and so many thousand kunas without knowing who, what, how and why. And I'm not in the mood for that to go unexplained. So I suggest you take it back to the Ministry of Finance, to the Department of Defense, as they have written off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50860	I would like to thank my colleague Ronka for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Franco Vidovic. He's gone, thank you. Next, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50861	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the basic reason the defenders went to war was to one day have a free and sovereign state. Unfortunately, our country today is not sovereign, we have given up our sovereignty. The reason the defenders went to war, i.e. One of these was to stop communism and have democracy, but democracy today works in a way that comes from Brussels and then, after a quick process, without any debate, they actually turn into laws. So we have a mass of laws that aren't passed because we think they're in the interest of citizens, but because it was a directive from Brussels. So we have one non-democratic way or the law-making procedure. From Brussels we can say that the directives of the type must be introduced tax on real estate, it must be this, what and, of course, the defenders when they watch what is happening are wondering if this is the one Croatia they fought for, is that the country they believed it would be. So a country that is free, a country that is sovereign, a country where we have, how can I say, where we Croats are on our own and live in prosperity. Unfortunately, there are, of course, people in HDZ who think Croatia is a great country, that everything works great and they say it every day on television but there is also another part of the citizens who thinks and defends it means that it is not all the way it should be. And when you look at all the democratic indicators, so let's say the number of newborns, the number of students, the number of employees, etc., all of them. positive economic indicators or demographic indicators are falling and all negative indicators, so the number of blocked, public debt, private debt, etc. They're growing. And we today unfortunately can find that the situation in our country is worse than it was before the '90s. That is, by leaving communism instead of prosperity, our citizens have experienced humiliation. Soldiers who went to war when they came home, lost their jobs and women waiting for their husbands to return from the war, also lost their jobs and then HDZ decided to cover up the unemployment problem with mass retirement simply to take care of all those unemployed. And that's how the problem of the unemployed is covered up. However, no one has asked what will happen to the children of these defenders or those people who have lost their jobs because at the moment they grow up, the companies where their parents have worked, will no longer exist and that is what happened, so today we have an exodus of young people because, of course, citizens have been thinking as they say, let's say that HDZ has done the Croatian bear people a favor. So he made it possible for people not to retire to retire and thus covered up the problem of their unemployment and transferred it to their children of course. And today some defenders, for example, can from Slavonia, with grief in their hearts watch what his Slavonia suffered, what has Osijek suffered, etc., and why? Because more unfortunately, people have left our country because of political elite policies, meaning both HDZ and SDP rather than Serbs. Unfortunately. Look at the number of completed properties, in the last 10 years, so in 2007-2017, you'll see that it's more than 40,000. So now you should, here, put one side to the number of property damaged in the war, put on the other side the number of real estate completed and look at the actual war damage that has been done to us by neighbouring Serbia and the war-related, or economic damage done to us by the successive HDZ and SDP governments. And finally, the logical consequence of the disappointment, of what they fought for and what they got is that the defenders raise their hands on themselves and that's why over 3,000 defenders committed suicide. This law, I'm glad that he's coming, I'm glad that the defenders are being helped, but some questions are being asked which, unfortunately, I don't know what reason, no one wants to run, which is a question of false defenders. So we all know that there were no half a million defenders in Croatia because if there were half a million defenders, then we wouldn't be at war with a far more powerful enemy already, because we would have a lot more soldiers than the enemy and one such blogger or columnist wrote that Napoleon had reached Moscow with half a million soldiers. It means that there really were half a million defenders, we not to defend Croatia without cramping on our faces, we could go without saying, and to Moscow because Napoleon told the Croatians the same thing that they were excellent soldiers, which means that or which excludes the possibility that Croats are bad soldiers and that is why we didn't do faster military operations and indicates that they actually have a large number of false defenders. And now what's going on? We are in a situation where real defenders have existential problems and concerns and false defenders have 8,000 kuna disability pensions and are not disabled. Unfortunately, this law does not solve it, if the state wanted to solve the problem of false defenders then tomorrow they would find money for real defenders and their pensions could be, I would say, twice as big. So I'm not saying that the defenders didn't deserve social protection, on the contrary, I'm in favour of it being even bigger, but it's not possible to inflation the number of these defenders and then give everyone some big rights because of course there would be a budget breakdown. I mean, he's in a breakdown anyway, but it would just bring him down to the end. And unfortunately, Minister Bear, what's he doing? And they decided to remove that defense registry that actually reduces the transparency of the entire system, why? Well, if there weren't any false defenders, then there wouldn't be a need for a register. People would say, look, it was, I don't know, I'm cartooning, 100,000 defenders, there's no need for their names to be public. I'd say okay, but we've got inflation on those fake defenders and that's one of the main reasons for publishing the register. I don't think the HDZ is going to help the defenders because defenders are honest who are looking at what the state has turned into, they're bitter, I think by this law, or that the intention of this law is to buy the HDZ electoral body and actually suggest these people, you see HDZ is with you and actually what? HDZ is a lie, HDZ is with people who lied about being defenders and not. And I'd like to tell all those defenders, i.e. not to the defenders, to the false defenders who have privileges and rights that do not belong to them, that the Bible says that “No liar and no thief will enter the kingdom of heaven”, which means that they are living in lies, misleading both the state and themselves, with the fact that they are not, in fact, condemn themselves in terms of eternity, more than Jesus in John 8,44 says to unfaithful Jews, “You have the devil for father because he is a liar and father of lies and has not been standing in the truth since the beginning.” And every time we as humans lie to ourselves, others and means the state, we are actually repeating a lie, and that is one very ugly thing that I say, leads us to eternal destruction and therefore I appeal to false defenders to give up their status and to ask the state that the money that does not belong to them, that goes away to those who have really fought for this country, and some of their own sovereignty, and some of their own. Now, I'm gonna understand for the defenders, support this law, but I'm appealing to the state to solve the problem of a false defender and to make up for it when this problem is solved, because what's happening right now? Right now, what's happening is that the real defenders are getting their pensions off. They say we'll cut you 10, 20%, etc. Why? It's not because there's no money, it's because there's a bunch of people in these fake defenders who are receiving funds they shouldn't have. If the problem of false defenders was solved, then the state should not collectively cut pensions, or rights, to all defenders. And in fact, this policy of false defenders has led to the rights of real defenders being reduced, reduced, etc. I'm personally against a downsizing of the defense attorney's rights. It means, but it's real. And those who are not real should be deprived of all rights and prosecuted for what the HDZ unfortunately does not want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50862	I thank my colleague Pernar. In your words, I read light nostalgia for the former criminal regime and the former state, but you know why. We have a few replicas. The first reported to the replica, a respected counterpart, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50863	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm going to tell my young colleague Pernar, it is my pleasure that you can express your views here and turn your eyes on it. That's why I'm going to let you have more and you've got a replica on mine, so you can add some more of your thoughts. But what I'd just like to return, if it didn't fall out of this Homeland War, if someone was fighting for some kind of policy, let's say, first we were fighting for the right to live. So let's get out of it, and then politics is both current and first-line policy, and it's done in our position the mistakes that we didn't think we needed, that sometimes a bigger victim is better, than that we're losing something that we think belongs to us. But when you're in a situation where someone goes to wipe out your family, your neighbors, your friends and conquer and submit, then you're actually very groundbreaking. So you're going to fight for survival. I'm not bitter. I'm not personally bitter, because for what we were volunteers then came to troops, we fought. So that's what we fought for. Politics, she's always had her own repercussions, and she's shaped the same interpretation, and I'm sick of hearing someone interpreting that the current policy came from the Homeland War. Not what was in the Homeland War, but this policy absolutely has nothing to do with it. This is already to say one other step for which at that time was not important or was the reason why we were even created by those who were going into that battle and I would not even now mix it and because of that, any law any political option that brought that actually indicates that it was a struggle for life and preservation, not only us, our families but also the people who lived with us will be welcomed here on my part. And this all remains on the soul of those who have made policies after... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50864	I thank my colleague Panenic for his replica. My colleague Pernar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50865	Mr. Panenic, most of the defenders when they went to war must have walked with that thought you carry. So the desire for freedom, for a better life, etc. However, the fact is that defenders did not fight for Milan Bandic's lawyer and Mason Marijan Hanžekovic to massacre them. They didn't fight for it to make electricity, water and gas more expensive. They didn't fight for all state property to be privatized and handed over to foreigners. They didn't fight for their children leaving the country they were creating and the homes they didn't want to leave in the war. But unfortunately, things turned out the other way. And the bed is wondering who's to blame. You know who's to blame. Unfortunately, it is not only the HDZ's fault, because the SDP has also implemented a privatisation policy of borrowing essentially neoliberal policy, economic policy, as well as an identical monetary policy, which has led to a credit breakdown, not only of small people, but also of large entities. I'm sure that when the defenders went to war if they hadn't gone, so to speak, to sacrifice themselves so as to say Ivica Todorovic lives in the castle, I'm sure of it. But in the end, it turned out that the defenders needed Malta not social assistance, and they had nothing to live on, to live on in ruins, and that Ivica Todorovic, who was not at war, lives in a castle and actually destroys the country for which they fought. Unfortunately, our people decided in the elections to support those political options and candidates that they are conducting here to say the butcher's policy towards the Croatian people and the consequences are actually our disappearance from these areas, the loss of sovereignty and, in fact, at the end of it all, one day people will ask why these people fought in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50866	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. We have another replica, dear colleague of Ines Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50867	Dear Mr. Pernar, I'm very bothered that you keep telling false defenders, false defenders, false defenders. And repeating such words all these years and thus we have contributed to one part of the defender, most defenders believe that they are potentially someone who has used their participation in the Homeland War or that part has not faked that documentation of their participation in the Homeland War. I think the biggest mistake was actually made between those 500,000 and I think that 500,000 were in HV that fought, I'm not going to say how far we'd go, but we'd get very far. But I think you should have said right away, what is now defined by this law, which is the participants of the Homeland War. Because being a doctor in Gospić and on Trsat in Rijeka and Pula, it was absolutely different, being in Gospić at the logistics base and not going out on the field, the first line was quite different. And be a cook, as Mr. Culey said today and go to the top of Velebit, with the boys to make ready food is a completely different story from the chef at the museum or in Split. So already that story is a combat and non-combat sector, but within the fighting sector there are huge differences that should have been resolved long ago. But that's why neither you nor we are responsible nor the defense attorneys are always called false defenders. The register was open, so how many of these fake defenders were found based on how we defined them? The problem is that we should have defined them quite differently. But listen, it was on those political options that were in power both of them but they lost their sources. Neither the SDP is so socially oriented anymore, nor the HDZ is so entrepreneurship-oriented, it's all kind of equidistant, some other options talk about the problems that are currently in our society, but it bothers me to tell constantly the false defenders because according to those regulations that they are, the defenders are the ones that are recorded among those half a million. And if there were too many, as defenders, it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50868	I thank my esteemed colleague, Strenja-Linić, on the replica. My colleague Pernar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50869	I would like to say that, someone will say, there is no need to stress the problem of false defenders, but the fact is that false defenders draw large financial resources from this country and that they are precisely the cause of the real defenders being disproved or reduced their rights. My heart hurts most when I see a man in a masked uniform, probably from the Homeland War digging through garbage. That hurts. My heart's pounding. And yet, on the other hand, there are people who, with a false disability, have been in military units that never existed, etc., who have achieved all possible rights and should be asked whether this policy of inflation of the number of defenders or the creation of a large fake defender is, in fact, paralysing, whether it is customeristic, whether it pleases one political party or the structures that enabled them and ultimately, whether that policy should be put to the end. Unfortunately for the election results, we see that a large number of citizens continue to support crime, support corruption from micro to macro levels, meaning at all levels, and the ultimate consequence is the collapse of the state, the collapse of the state, the disappearance of the people living in it. And keep in mind that all the rights that have been acquired without that basis, that is all the cat in the bag, that is, in order to express it, bear service, and ultimately, each of us will be responsible for every kuna he has taken and which did not belong to him without exception and to false defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50870	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. We move on to the next debate, the final word on behalf of the GLAS Club, HSU, the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50871	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Ministry representatives. The further this debate goes, the more proud I am of my form of defenders in HSU for why they constantly comment on their rights with other pensioners because they are part of a single Corps of all pensioners together. And I must admit that there were no such radical demands in our structure and such great cries for the endangered rights of the defender. The only thing I have to say is one question that is trying to solve this law is the question of allowing for work on pensions in several variants because some variants were allowed under the existing law, but in several variants. Look, now that's improved. But I'm asking you, couldn't we have made a bigger step? There's a good number of you sitting in the last term, pardoning the past, when Mr. Mrsic proposed as Minister of Labour and Pension System that you could work without putting your pension on hold. And if someone's in a disability pension, they can work up to four hours with a job contract, it can also be a contract of work, and someone who's in retirement. At that time, we were told, or on this side, that this measure would disrupt labour market relations, that we are direct competition, that pensioners are direct competition to young people and that therefore young people will retire and we have a number of open calls to certain jobs, open job offers that we cannot possibly fill. So I'm wondering why we're limiting it to four hours, why are we restricting early pensioners so they can't do the same and why all the pensioners including the defenders won't be able to work if there's room on the labour market? They pay contributions, Minister Maric said they must pay half of their contributions to pension, half of their contributions to health care. So they're gonna pay themselves a part of the pension, I don't know what we're afraid of. Let's do an analysis and see what we're missing and whether there are any remaining working skills in that pensioner and defender's Corps, and there are those people who can fill those jobs and contribute to our economy, both the defender and the early pensioners. And secondly, I have an observation, so we've been looking again at that pre-government, and we've received financial resources from the EU, or the European Commission has approved us to form a single art center, or a single body of art, and we're sorry, and now we're looking for special constituencies here. We haven't even set up the centers yet. We've only got four centers. The need for skill is one-of-a-kind. Secondly, I'm also a defender and I didn't ask for it, I'd like it best if there was a category in the law, citizens who responded to the mobilization and participated in the defence of the Republic and did not seek any defence rights. I wish I could determine myself but I didn't have the right choice, I was mobilized to respond to mobilization, like most of my Istrians, did my 13 days and got the status of defender. Gentlemen, this is the Deputy Prime Minister of Jadranka Kosor's appointment, and it's a law so laid down in the Storm for 13 days, a member of the Defence Fund, and it's all there, I haven't applied anywhere, gentlemen. And I just want to tell you that you could have left the right choice. So I'd beg not to single out the defenders themselves. If there is a unique body of art, let it be for everyone and for the pensioners, for the socialists, for health care and for the defenders. Why are we always looking for something special? The more our citizens will appreciate and love us, not always looking for something. I know the causes and consequences are specific, but if the doctors can't figure out why they're doctors. I'm sorry, it's a little intense, but I think I'm always touching some of the injustices that I think are significant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50872	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. We have a few replicas. The first replica of a esteemed colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50873	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a quick and short one. You have mentioned and asked why to limit this Article 29 to half-time defenders, or all pensioners, as prescribed by the general law. Yes, I agree with you, actually, for the time being, the need for the labour market is so great, but we will certainly have a situation in the future, and that happens from day to day, that for the jobs that are underpaid with us, people go to Germany that records new economic expansion and growth as the 1970s, and there they get three times more for that same job. We won't be left with anyone who works and we'll just have to reach out for this and it'll only come to full application, for now half is maybe enough. But I agree that if we look into the future in two, three years or five years, it's certainly going to be in certain places, and it's going to be cashiers if they're not replaced by some technology in supermarkets and other simpler professions, and I don't want to tell the manuals any more use of this story because these people have some rights and then they'll know how to use them. So as far as this regulation is concerned in Article 29, we absolutely welcome that it is possible without the suspension of property and it goes in that direction, primarily to socialization and everything that the defence population and all the problems it faces. But the economic question is that it will come to the agenda not only for the defenders but for all the pensioners, and it will be very soon for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50874	I thank my colleagues for the replica. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50875	I thank my colleague Curai for understanding this matter. I really believe that in 2014 when we first brought this right for pensioners to work for disabled and old age pensions, that they could work up to a maximum of 4 hours, not to interrupt their pension but to start a working relationship with the labor contract, I think it was enough time to find that this was a measure used by 5 to 6 thousand people a year, that they were not the cause of leaving young people because they were usually in those jobs where specific skills were sought. And why wouldn't a chef mentor a young colleague if he went into retirement, that's still not such a hard job? Why does it have to be 3.5 hours, because of its shape, can be longer or more of a similar profession. And I don't think we need to be afraid because the pensioners won't flood the labour market and they won't take anyone's bread. And the young leave and leave tomorrow because they don't see the perspective, because they don't see the future, because they want to have social security when they retire, and here they don't know how many years the internship will reach by their 50s, 60s or 70s because the lack of employment and the uncertainty of employment is catastrophic and the poor pay, and the second pillar won't allow them to save anything for their pension. So it's about perspective, it's about some hopelessness and I have young people in my house and I hang out with them and I know how they think. They're looking for security and they're looking for a more certain future than they have here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50876	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50877	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Hrelja, I assume you've been reading this law well. You mentioned that we were against that measure during the previous assembly of this House. The fact is that circumstances have changed, in particular, the circumstances on the market and that this measure is one extremely good measure not to suspend pensions or that it is possible to work part-time from full-time. Even better is the measure when hiring the child of the deceased defender where the employer, as far as I know, is only the salary of the pension fund and... However, you mentioned the minister in the previous government, and you shouldn't, she initiated that Law on the Single Body of Art then and he caused a large number of cases, then it was somewhere around 100,000 and you're saying that now a special establishment unit is being created within the Single Body of Art. It is not a set-up but an organisational unit for the items it stands for and in this proposal of law regarding Croatian defenders, precisely because of the large number of cases that were then accumulated by the adoption of the law. Another important thing about this Single Arts Institute is that in 2013, the government took one loan from the World Bank nearly 70m euros, which is huge money that taxpayers will have to pay back. These funds were taken for 5 items, one was for deinstitutionalisation for a single compensation centre and, among other things, for this unique body of art. The unique body of art received 4m euros for the funds unfortunately, the minister at the time did not take advantage of it at all, but in fact created a major confusion and therefore the large number of cases took place. So that it would not happen to the defenders, that is, to avoid being further frustrated, is a special organisational unit, as I understand it, not a structural one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50878	I would like to thank my colleague Babic for his replica. And an answer from my colleague Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50879	Well, my colleague Babic, I am pleased to speak the same language and in fact my intention is not to respect you anything because I know the positional and opposition games in this House and I am clear that the opposition always has an obligation to warn about the possible adverse consequences that, in this case, the employment of people with disabilities and old age pensions did not have and we were right to bring such a measure and should be extended further. I'm not Mrsic's lawyer here, and I don't want to discuss it. I know that the implementation of the single body of art and centre setting came relatively late and that the project was very late and that there was obstruction in the mandate of the government in all sectors, so both in the social and in the pension and health care and in the Ministry of Defence, so that the project was very difficult or never gone. And there's a really demanding number of objects to be solved. However, look, I don't know but you'll have to sit with me for coffee, for me are identical words both organic and organisational. And the organisational and structural unit, so I don't see much difference between what it says and what I said. I think that means the same thing. There may be nuances you'll probably teach me about I'll be ready, but you'll pay for the coffee. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50880	Thank you, colleagues. On behalf of my colleague Babic, I thank you for calling for coffee. Next up for the replica came an esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50881	The Honorable Chairman, I am withdrawing the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50882	I thank my colleague Pernar. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50883	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you were talking about this, about the unique body of art and this construction unit that has been described in this House many times as impossible for the rights of Croatian defenders, given that eventually the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have established trial skills by experts of all kinds. Who clearly wrote that only 6% can be achieved in one case, in another 7.2%. Most of all, one expert estimated that 26% of the cases could be processed and the rest could not. It's the expertise they've done in a year. And yet, even though it was presented and made, it was forced to go all the way into one unique body of art that absolutely does not correspond to the expert opinion of those who are doing this very work of art. And what you said to the citizens who responded to the mobilization call. After President Tudjman's call that all citizens who are militaryly capable of joining the Homeland defense, the volunteers came, when there were not enough volunteers, then mobilization calls were sent. And don't drag me by my tongue to talk about how many are directed to Istria. But it doesn't matter. All what is written in the law clearly defines the Croatian defender, from volunteer to defender. The defender is every one who participated in the Homeland War whether by a mobilization call or by his own free will. But volunteers have special status and special evaluation. I think it's inappropriate now... citizens who responded to the mobilization call. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's really inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50884	I thank my colleague Djakic for his replica. Answer, Comrade Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50885	The problem of the unique body of art and the problems of the termological nature, the criteria, we will all have opportunities tomorrow morning to discuss the new law, the draft law on, amendments and additions to the Professional Rehabilitation Act, which consists of a single body, i.e. centres for art and professional rehabilitation, and we will be able to explain this in particular. As for the citizens who responded to the mobilization and served their duty with honor to the Homeland, I was proud of this saying and I was talking about myself, I wasn't talking about volunteers, I was talking about an ordinary citizen who worked as a union official visiting his fellow union members in Brinja and the Lyca Corps, or Sinac, visiting them, carrying cigarettes, skeletons, etc., that's what I'm talking about. And when the "Storm" action was, I was mobilized, raised, etc. I'm not asking for anything, not even the status of Croatian defenders. Do you understand? I didn't ask, I got it. ... And I'm just asking that, if you think that's right, it should be that distinction to leave us the choice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I love this country maybe more than you. And I think that, and I think that this country looked wonderful no matter what the war environment was from the '90s to '95. when we were solid, when we were one, when we were breathing one thing and then we started pulling each and every one for their own end who would pull out fatter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50886	I would like to thank my colleague Hrelja for his reply. We move on to the next final word. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50887	I would like to thank Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Defence. Today I would have said to us one of the most important laws that we will have the opportunity to adopt in this term. And I think I share my opinion, at least that's how I understood from the debates that could be heard today, most of the MPs in this House that this law was actually done in a very serious, comprehensive and systematic way and that it regulates, therefore, the issue of Croatian defenders and much broader than the rights themselves, and also the need. Because the fact that in the definition, therefore, in Article 1 of this Law itself clearly defines the character of the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia and clearly calls the aggressors in this definition in fact reaffirms those original provisions of the BiH Constitution which say that the Republic of Croatia is founded on victory in a fair, legitimate, defensive and liberating war. And I would tell those who are bothered by this definition actually to face the historical truth, to be prepared to condemn the regimes in the name of which this war and this aggression was waged. Because what's clear to all of us today, who's been attacking and defending, those in 100 years might not be there if it's not officially established. Furthermore, the definition of the defenders themselves is actually a step forward in relation to the solutions we've had so far, not to repeat what it says. The very fact that, therefore, the People's Protection are involved speaks of it. But in the end, I'll say something else about it further. Only in a few discussions did I have a chance to notice what my colleague Ragug said. So, an attempt to antagonise, so defense populations with other populations about certain rights, were even talked about privileges. It's a very wrong approach and inappropriate to this population. It's more about realising needs and correcting injustices. The fact that the law therefore provides for early and more favourable retirement, priority in employment, benefits for unemployed defenders, relief of health care and only the consequences of those defenders who went to defend Croatia did not have the opportunity to study and finish the colleges they started. And of course today they can't be equally competitive to others who haven't been on that occasion. And of course it takes the Croatian state to help these people through the priority of employment. Furthermore, the advantage... Why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, because these people are actually damaged health conditions much more than the rest of the population. The fact that it is justified, therefore, to consider a more favourable and premature retirement stems from findings that the life span of defenders is shorter than the rest of the population. And now here's the end of it, here's a member of the HVO, and I'm really honored by the HDZ Club to say the final word. In any case, I agree with my colleague Raguza, who said that this law has taken a step forward, that some of the issues that were only, therefore, the subject of a contract between the two countries today are resolved by law and that there will be no real dispute between these rights by anyone in BiH, the Federation of BiH. What I am, here's the obligation here to bring out, here and as president... in the Parliament within which the Defence Committee is also involved are some of the issues already proposed to the proposer, and as regards, therefore, the Croatian Defence Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there was a proposal that the definition of Croatian defenders should include members of the battle sector of the Croatian Council of Defence, and I think it was their place... HVO in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I also understand the promoter because this law solves a lot of rights that can not actually be solved in the same way for Croatian states but that are residents of the two states. And that's why I understand, so the fact that it's put in a special right in the head of the 9th and the head of the 10th, so this law. And the next thing, I also feel obliged to present here what has already been proposed, and that is to say that in article 141 is to consider, in addition to the members of the battle sector of the Croatian Council of Defence, which has recognised the status of a military invalid based on imprisonment and wounding, includes... PTSD, especially among them, is therefore the greatest risk of, therefore, taking a life or suicide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this law, in fact, those persons who unfortunately committed suicide, or their families, are actually involved with new rights. Therefore, at the end of the HDZ Club, they will, of course, support this law. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50888	I thank Mr. Ljubic for this debate. We have two replicas. Tomislav Panenić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50889	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Ljubic, here I would just look back at one constellation. God forbid any law defines me as a Croatian defender, God forbid it defines me as a volunteer of the Homeland War. Because I'm afraid that the respect we should have received from everyone involved, and especially those who have died, will eventually get lost. Because the laws will change. I'm just afraid we're not gonna end up like partisans. What is our point of view, the opinion of those people who today receive some pensions when every lifetime is over. I feel that way, because then I was really young, 18 years old, and what's going to happen in 20 years? Then will someone make fun of you, tell me you're just looking through some law that protects you. I don't want to go down to the law level, or any real defense attorney thinks he'll be defined by any law. Not only can it be that the state will consider whether it wants to repay these people and to what extent. But that someone would ask the state to define it, no. There are clear lists of people who participated, when the commanders behind that list participated, and they should actually answer to God and to people that it is true. Because the law has led to this that we have 500 thousand people reported, if only the defenders were real, then they would certainly be far more realistic and we wouldn't have to discuss so much about the laws, but that number that was then a real number, very easily, any government and this country, gave them those rights that they really believe were contributed to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50890	I thank my colleague Panenic for his replica. The answer of my colleague Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50891	Thank you. So, dear fellow Panenić, if I understood this replica of yours correctly, it refers to the fact that it would be unnecessary to actually regulate these rights legally, etc. However, in my debate, I have also pointed out that this is less about rights and more about correcting injustices towards that population and meeting needs. Namely, here I was a member of HVO, a Croatian defender, a resistance organizer, I have all these certificates etc., etc., but I never asked for any rights, the realisation of the rights especially not to retire because I don't need it, because my pension given the work I've been doing is even bigger than it could be based on my belongings and the defence population but not everyone is in the same situation. So we need to understand that fact and regulate it by law. I hope, as some colleagues have already pointed out, that we will adopt this law in this House with, I would say, the greatest consensus possible. And it will also be the recognition of the Ministry of Defence and the recognition of all the defenders who regulate this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50892	I thank Mr. Ljubic for his reply. Next replica of my colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50893	Comrade Ljubic, I will repeat once again what I have said to my colleagues. People, Croats from the BiH area were among the first to join the defence of the Republic of Croatia. In armed forces before the Republic of Croatia's recognition, and we must not forget that. That's a fact. The second fact that you mention, HVO, yes, are Croatian defenders, I have been with them for a year in the BiH area, and I think it's the bad situation for these people, the very policy you've been conducting. Just you. So imagine six generals, defenders in The Hague, so no one remembered or visited them, didn't think to give them legal help. So let's remember Ivo Sanader didn't dare go to Herzegovina. We can talk about this and what, so Zoran Milanovic at least left. So you who are the representatives of that people downstairs should have been much sharper towards Croatian politicians because the Constitution obliges them to fight for these people and not to move these people or to just use them as voting machines in the Republic of Croatia. We all have to fight here for the rights of these people, for these people to survive in these areas, it's the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, not to remain empty in those areas and not just to use them in certain moments as a voting machine. These people were responsible for defending the HVO, as Croatian defenders, and many in the 1990s were among the first, from these areas, to Croatian troops, even then there was no Croatian army. Therefore, the policies were bad, should be made public according to your areas and you are among the culprits, because you were not loud to Croatian policies, which did not stately address these areas. And from now on, be loud because it's never too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50894	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. The answer of my colleague Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50895	I thank my colleague Bulj, especially on your contribution to the defence of Croatian areas and in BiH Croatia, however, your thesis and accusations of the Croatian-political leadership in BiH for everything that has happened to the Croats in BiH, it seems little to me that the Croats have driven themselves out of central Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the people of Sarajevo have shelled themselves, etc., etc. You gave me a chance to better repeat actually the contribution of HVO, defence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, operations of Cincar, Winter of '94, Jump 1, Jump 2, Summer of '95, are actually dominant actions in which HVO participated, which allowed it to enter the Storm in the way it entered and freed the Republic of Croatia. But as far as the political leadership of the Croats in BiH is concerned, it is actually unfair, I would say to accuse those who fight on the ground and fight as hard as they can. And what Croatia can actually do more than what this law has done, and I would say, the most possible thing about the existing socio-economic and political relations in Croatia is to help both the multilateral and bilateral capacity of the Croatian political leadership in BiH, that elections to the right of legitimate political representation in BiH institutions to equality and that we can then be able to address those issues concerning both Croatian defenders and the support of the defence of our people unjustly accused both in The Hague and BiH, and that aid is not even necessary for us then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50896	I thank Mr. Ljubic for his reply. We have another replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50897	Your Honor, Vice President. Here's my colleague Ljubic, I got an e-mail, probably because BiH defenders don't recognize you who are fighting for their interests, meaning from the Association of HVO defenders from Ljubusko, who sent me amendments, meaning on this bill, so I'm going to do it in another reading, and as far as their rights are concerned, so now I don't elaborate everything and what they've sent me, but I think it is, and I'm going to rely on my colleague Bulja, that it's unfortunate that they're sending it to me and not sending it to you as an agent from that area. And in the second reading, I'm going to give the amendments and I'm just going to read this sentence. He says: “We, as an association, did not ask for or have a political sponsor from the Croatian parties in BiH, because our Croatian parties mainly took care of the defence population that we represent the problems that we have today would have solved long before. Here's what's sad, and that's what you need to work on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50898	When little hands come together, anything can happen. I thank you for the replica. Answer, colleague Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50899	My colleague Gromoy would not, therefore, engage in a political one, because this problem and this question requires consensus in this House, and that is how I will behave. As far as this is concerned, I am the chairman of the General Council of the Croatian National Assembly, which brings together 12 political parties and also the Department of Defence and where all associations are involved, i.e. the most important roof associations from the Homeland War in BiH and which support the Croatian politics in BiH, which is thus promoted by the Croatian National Assembly. As you could hear if you were listening, I have brought here today in fact practically in the form of a discussion of two amendments that could be found in this law. And believe me, therefore, that I have, even in my position, that the President of the General Council of the Croatian National Assembly is being sent to me by the amendments, so the associations are being sent. But here, for over a year, the associations have continued to cooperate and have been involved in the committees, so the Ministry of Defence and are aware of the real socio-economic opportunities in the Republic of Croatia and are aware of the fact that certain legal restrictions and are therefore aware that these solutions offered today in this law are possible at this moment, with what I consider to be possible, in the debate and the forthcoming period until the final draft of the law, we may still be able to fix and with your support, if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50900	I thank Mr. Ljubic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST independent lite esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50901	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Vukic. Here again at the end on behalf of the club MOST we welcome and support the idea of adopting a single law on Croatian defenders. I hope that during today's debate, we have made a lot of suggestions and as far as the Most Club itself and others here have expressed their views and that you will respect most of it or that you will respect what you think should be in line with the law and improve the status of defenders. It is particularly good here to define the same relationship with all Croatian defenders wherever they are from, but Croatian defenders are no matter what nationality they are from, from which areas they are from. The Croatian defender is the foundation of the Croatian state. The Croatian defender must come out the truth about the Croatian defender, a Croatian soldier who was a human, who was principled, who only defended his homeland. That any influence and policies should not be attributed to themselves by the defender either to the left, or to the right, to the center. These were all our fellow citizens who defended the Homeland and defended the Homeland and we must be grateful to them for our coming down here today in this House, in the Croatian Parliament. But the fact is that Croatian policies after the Liberation Homeland War, the defenders left the management of politicians who unfortunately did not run the Croatian state. They didn't hold on to the dignity of the Homeland War. Unfortunately, they persecuted the most prominent Croatian defenders and generals in order to achieve their particular interests or interests of some European officials, and even the documentation from this Homeland War was sent to tones in international courts who knew what routes. He didn't protect himself. It means the dignity of the Homeland War. Protect dignity, document the Homeland War. We have people like I said who can do it and that it stays once for history and that all the unique, all the suggestions that we know to pass a law that should be like you said constitutionally. But I'm sure it's just the way it is now without any further objections to be observed. I'm sure it's not good to change some laws every year. Homeland war is the cornerstone of the Croatian state, the Homeland War is a struggle against fascists from Serbia, Montenegro and occupiers from these areas and Croatian defenders are true anti-fascists, and we must say it out loud and publicly, who have defended themselves from the occupiers who have gone over these areas and have been a struggle for survival in this area. I must also point out that what is the message to future generations, i.e. The people who went out to get and then the Croatian defenders were young, they didn't go outside, they fought. However, the fact that war profiters are creating their empires, they have created their empires on the burden of those who have defended the Croatian state and that on this road in the common battle we who are in Parliament, people, citizens must jointly fight these corruption forces in this society that has been so bred to the pain, that the Croatian economic system is literally destroyed both in the Homeland War and after the Homeland War outside the territory which means it was occupied. Unfortunately, here I expect that you will also transfer secretaries to the minister, as well as to Prime Minister Plenkovic, to ask for war damage from Serbia of 45 billion euros and with this money could cover not only Croatian defenders, but that those who warn Croatia, who led the Chetnic movement such as Vukic, should apologize to Croatian citizens, defenders and finally tell us where our missing persons are dead, and not that I don't know what Croatians are talking about. However, they were hooligans who did great evil not only in Croatia but throughout the area of the former Yugoslavia. Once again MOST independent lists in first reading will naturally support the law. We gave you in writing, we made official remarks that you see which can improve this appearance of the law and I expect you will and will respect, if not in the second reading we will have our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50902	I would like to thank my colleague Bulju for this final word. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50903	Thank you very much. Comrade Miro, I find it particularly difficult when I say we have some suggestions that we have put into this debate, but surely since here we are not HDZ that we are not even good enough defenders, it turns out that way. Because when we look that, that you just have to go with what you're about to say, we've made proposals now, we should adopt that, and then we should adopt amendments. What does that show? So there's no common ground. I hope here's the Secretary of State to pass it on to the Minister. In fact, our message is what we want together. That we don't have to get into a situation where we're making amendments to this proposal and that in the end these people, here and Nikola mentioned that they're sending us suggestions that it's better to tell people then don't send us we're not good enough to fight for defense rights because HDZ is the one who knows best about defenders to care. I think it's real, don't bother me if I can finish it, so our word and struggle are unrecognized. And I'm going to try and get through these suggestions to get a really good review of the ministry, so it's not just a rejuvenation that we often have a case here that one of the HDZs or theirs from the ruling coalition made a proposal, so here they just adopted his proposal so they can pick it up a little bit. Let's put this level down around this law and be dignified and consider any proposal whether it comes from any club of MPs that ultimately determines whether it's an improvement, whether it's good for our defenders, whether it can be held on a longer term. And I think then we'll all be better quality and this esteemed House unanimously supports this law. Then that's the success of the Ministry of Defense and all the defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50904	I would like to thank my colleague Panenic for his replica and his response to his colleague, Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50905	So of course this law, I forgot there and I say there are, as I said in the beginning that there are a lot of things that are positive and that is the fact from health systems checks to unemployed, will be uniquely, will be returned to the Ministry of Defence, uniquely and the HVO that people also could not solve their problems, opening time periods for people who couldn't. There's a lot of good stuff here. However, there are a lot, there are certain things that we have made our proposals and I expect will be considered. I don't think a colleague who's there, Secretary Vukic, is going to have anything against something that's good if I think it's in the interest of all of us. And of course I expect that the law will be applied from 1.1.2018, not 2019, if possible because I know that the prime minister is here just when I asked him to remove the Chetnic monuments, when 11 of our defenders were moved that he had started talking about Croatian defenders. Well, I'm sorry if he hears this law already, if it's possible to apply it from 1.1.2018, not 1.1.2019, as it is said in Knin. Of course I... The defenders at this point, both HDZ, SDP, and MOST, this is a unique law, and we expect to bring together what is best, and I don't see any reason why we all together don't support this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50906	I thank you for your response to my colleague Bull. My colleague Djakic, I'd like to ask you nicely if you don't come in. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50907	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, you said, of course, that this law has positive things, but there are many things that we have made as observations. I also asked questions immediately, and in all this opening statement, you said a lot that was not mentioned either by the minister in his presentation, which is not in line with those pre-election promises made by HDZ and itself, in essence, the way in which this law was presented that he is comprehensive and that all those dispersed rights that exist in other laws and which are covered by other ministries within this law, it will not happen, so we are here today and presented and that is not so, but it does not mean that there are no positive aspects of the law. As for everything else, you have seen, as well as Djakic's colleague, being involved, what this debate looked like today, where I'm practically told, Mr Djakic has already decided whether I or not would be a Croatian defender. That's right, if you're in HDZ and you're in JNA, then you're not an officer at JNA, and if you're Vlaho Orepic, if you're in MOST and you're in the Homeland War, then you're a JNA officer. And what it is, for example. The same General Krsticevic from JNA, he is in HDZ, no one will tell him that he came from JNA, that is the problem and that HDZ monopoly on defenders and those who defended the Homeland. And I think if you look at the MOST club as a percentage has the most defenders and volunteers of the Homeland War but we're not, we don't have a HDZ membership card. We didn't raise any privileged defense loans, we didn't get used to it, and we're not good enough defenders for HDZ right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50908	I thank Mr. Grumoja for this replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50909	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Article 238. By replicating Mr. Bulj, my colleague is calling me that it has absolutely nothing to do with the debate led by Mr. Bulj. The fact that he escaped when it was necessary to listen to my replica is a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50910	I thank Mr. Djakic. Please do not abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure because nothing has been hurt by the Rules of Procedure, and these style locks of each of you MPs let it go to your soul. I especially note today at the High House when they should be unique about the matter under discussion. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Thank you very much. You're very kind. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just to correct you, Mr. Orepic was a senior officer, not a JNA officer. And we have Mr. Mira Bull's response to the replica, to Mr. Grmo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50911	The fact that when we talk about here now and this deputy JNA or Officer JNA, irrelevantly, or those people who came to HV and defended regardless of whether in HDZ was in JNA or in another if a man defended, means that he should be given a confession, however, not well by those criteria. Which party you're in then is good that you were an officer at JNA or a senior officer or vice versa. I believe that all Croatian defenders here must be unique, because in the Homeland War we did not see who was left, who was right, we were all united, I think that we who are here in this assembly, Croatian defenders will understand that and that we will find together models how this law... As good as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not doubting the effort we've put into this all we've put forward. And otherwise, when I mention it, I don't remember, I will now be your inspector, it seems to me that Mr. Andrija Mikulić, when I mentioned something, immediately came up with the documentation, he came to my medical from the war, the great hero Andrija Mikulić, and of course he came to present it without... Here's your secretary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that man wants to be in charge of the inspectorate. Here, Mr. Brkic will say if it is correct to the Croatian defender, that Andrija Mikulić, who presented the documentation here on the Croatian defender, is not ashamed of her. ... I'm not ashamed of her, but he'll be the boss of everything now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why? I'm not ashamed of everything that happened in the Homeland War, I can get my files out here, I was a young man 17 years old, I was a soldier, after war 12, no problem at all, I wish I had gone to study or if I had gone somewhere else, or I was like Andrija Mikulić in some other way, but that's how it is. They may be, in this way behave, although when there was the creation of the HDZ where he was, who would know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50912	I thank my colleague Bull. Everyone says what they say about themselves. I thank you for your answer. As far as personnel policy is concerned, I didn't know you were involved in personnel policy, so you knew what would happen in advance. But, okay. Visionaries are always welcome. We have one final word from the Secretary of State, the Department of Defense. Dear Mr. Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. I thank you all for the discussion and for the last comment, more concrete suggestions. Be assured that we will carefully analyse them all and adopt those measures that are acceptable and justified until the second reading to further improve the already proposed measures and solutions. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that the state, special care is devoted to the protection of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disabled persons, widows, parents and children of the dead Croatian defenders. On days 2 decades after the end of the Homeland War, the rights of defenders are not regulated and resolved properly. The facts that you can read from the results of the study that is before you, which was one of the basis for making a new bill, are clear indicators and the real situation and allows for a better condition in the segments of the lives of Croatian defenders. The defense population is old, and their health problems are becoming more difficult, and the mortality figures, about the average age they die in, are amazing. Hospitals are full of people without adequate status and it is therefore necessary to abolish the deadline for the status of Croatian defenders or HRVIA to allow all defenders or victims of the Homeland War to be worthy of their role in defending the country, and the achievement of the status is a basic prerequisite for the achievement of all the measures provided for in the law. It is high time that the status and material rights of all Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War who have been distributed for years into other laws of the union and to create legal existential security. If we don't do something about their rights today, given the merciless numbers, I'm afraid in 10 years, we'll have no one left for us. Which means that all rights are united in a single law, except for a single body of art that remains before the Ministry of Pensions and Labour. I would like to mention one more thing, which is that it means all the measures provided for, through the ministry's budget, through this law, and relating to the budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry, are secured for this year, depending on when the law will be adopted, and it will be in force 8 days after the adoption. So all the measures stemming from the law, relating to the budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry, will be immediately in office after 8 days, and the measures resulting from retirement, through pensions, they will be, one part of the measures will be taken in 2018 and one part of the measures in early 2019. So since 1.3.2018, part of the measures that go through retirement and that is why we have provided funding through 10 meetings, consultations, with the Ministry of Labour and Pensions. I hope you will make your contribution to the adoption of this law, because we must not allow those who created the Republic of Croatia who gave their lives for it, who were wounded to become disabled and their families who had passed all the fears and sufferings with them, to view themselves as burdensome. All of us, the entire Croatian state and every political option must be aware that without Croatian defenders there would be no independent Republic. Thank you all for participating in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50914	I thank Mr. Secretary of State Ivan Vukic for this final word. With this, we've exhausted all the debates and I'm closing the debate. And once again, I would like to thank the Minister of Croatian Defence who had to leave, the Secretary of State, Mrs Nevenka Benic, Secretary of State Mr Ivan Vukic and the principle sector of Mr Ivica Akmaj on the reasons and interpretations of this law. Thank you very much. On this item of the agenda, we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50915	We now move on to the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading, P.Z. No. 174. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant and considered when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 91 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 11 votes against the delivered conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50916	We move to the next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, second reading. P.Z.E. No.146 The applicant of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and all related to Article 190 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I call upon Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Christian Turkalj, to give us an additional explanation of this final bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50917	I thank the chairman. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. You have before you the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. A law on judicial co-operation in criminal matters between EU Member States has been passed in order to transpose EU rules in the field of judicial co-operation in Croatia. It came into force in 2010 1.7.2013 when the Republic of Croatia joined the EU. This law lays down the forms of judicial cooperation between Member States such as the European Arrest Warrant, the recognition of the execution of sentences imposed on prison or probationary measures and the like. You are facing the fourth amendments and amendments to the laws that go towards further compliance with the new two directives, which have been adopted at EU level in the meantime. It is the EU Directive on the right to access a lawyer in criminal proceedings and proceedings on the basis of a European arrest warrant and the right to inform a third party in the event of a withdrawal of freedom and communication with third parties and consular authorities and the European Investigation Order Directive in criminal proceedings. The purpose of the first and the objective of the first Directive is to create minimum standards relating to the right of an attorney in particular in the section relating to procedures under the European arrest warrant. As far as the second directive is concerned, it aims to mean that it is the European Research Order Directive to create a comprehensive system of carrying out evidence in the EU area. Before that Directive, this substance was very fragmented, and this way and these amendments of the law create one whole system. What is essential is that the European Investigation Order is issued by a judicial authority when one or more investigative actions are to be carried out or evidence carried out in the territory of another Member State and is now regulated. In addition, after consulting in the preparation and drafting of the law, the judicial authorities and those experienced in the application of the law, then we took advantage of these opportunities to detect the weaknesses of the legislative framework in advance or to remove them. It is foreseen that the law enters into force eight days after its publication in the NN, the Croatian Parliament adopted at its session on 7 July 2017 the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters between EU Member States. As regards the draft law, the legal text has not been significantly amended, it is only about changes in the nomotechnical nature. We also note that the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament pointed to the need for nomotechnical amendment of Article 21, and in this regard the same change was made. Thank you. MILLIAN BRKIĆ:
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50918	I thank the respected Secretary of State, Mr. Christian Turkalj, for this explanation. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50919	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, dear colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. Here is the final proposal for a law that we had already discussed in our first reading, and now, in the opening statement, the secretary of state said the basic things that had been changed, and in order to comply with the directives, I would not have been much longer about it. I'd just say that we're in front of the HDZ Club thinking that this final bill is well-prepared. We believe that some things are good that are so prescribed for the reasons that this will contribute to legal certainty in judicial cooperation between EU Member States and in the procedures that are being carried out. We can only point out that, in relation to the proposal for a law that was in the first reading, Article 21 has been nomotechnically completed in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives. The other amendments and there were no after the first reading, and we can say that we are satisfied because this law prescribes minimum standards that strengthen mutual trust and facilitate judicial cooperation based on the principle of mutual recognition, which is very positive and leads to a higher level of legal certainty and therefore, as I said, we will support this final draft of the law. And I just note that no additional funding will be necessary for the implementation of the law in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50920	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50921	My colleague Jelkovac, here I don't know what time legal initiatives are always expected, but we, in continuity, have European directives here and then we boast that we are well prepared. How much of these laws do we have, how much do we bring about, will it even apply or does it even make sense to bring this to Parliament if it is a directive? We just directives, is this a directive or is it a recommendation? So if we Parliamentarians want to accept this, we can accept it is time to do something outside the EU directive, to become our own at least once. All day long here in Parliament, all we get is European directives on the table. The time is here I am also telling the ministry to start doing something inside the ministry, not just copying directives that are inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50922	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50923	Dear colleague Bulj, I find your attitude interesting, but I must deny you. So for a little while we have completed the debate on the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, which has nothing to do with the European directives, we have a series of draft laws here in the Parliament that have nothing to do with the directives, but we must also be aware that as a member of the EU we must also comply with our legislation with the acquis of the EU and thus adopt laws and amendments to the law which will approach harmonisation with the directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50924	I thank my colleague Jelkovac for his reply. Final word on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr Christian Turkalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50925	Honorable MPs, MPs. I'd just look back on why we're making this regulation. We therefore adopt this regulation in order to make it easier for us to carry out criminal proceedings, so that we can cooperate more easily among Member States that the evidence found in a Member State becomes available to our executive bodies. As far as the directives themselves are concerned, they may sound in our language that they are guidelines, that it is something optional, but in accordance with our Constitution, the directive is legally above the law. By the legal nature of the directive must be transposed into a national legal framework and they have a time limit for transposition. Unless they are transposed into national law, the European Commission may sue us before the EU court for breach of legal obligations. So it's our obligation, but it's a commitment that gives our authorities advantages in the conduct of criminal persecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50926	I thank Mr. Secretary of State Christian Turkalj for this final word. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50927	Dear Secretary. So what I said was that these directives were above the law, I don't know we could rewrite it, you asked the people or you knew when it was coming into the EU, I don't know if you were but the political elite what she signed, what directives. And the fact that we have predilection, then promised when we join the EU that we will be a legal state, but all these tycoons that have been exploited, war profiters and in privatisation and during the Homeland War are still at large, and who asks them what they are, I think, the directives you give to the MPs, we vote on them, and they are above the law. Therefore, we have little sovereignty, so that means that we left anything when we entered the EU because we really just have to copy and it's too much to deal with, and what we see is the situation in the Republic of Croatia and because of the situation in the judiciary today we also have a large number of people leaving because of legal uncertainty from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50928	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. He doesn't want to answer Mr. Turkalj. Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on this item on the agenda, and we will vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50929	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 146. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the EU Member States. Please, let's vote. I find that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the EU Member States has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50930	We move to the next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, second reading. P.Z.E. No.146 The applicant of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and all related to Article 190 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I call upon Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Christian Turkalj, to give us an additional explanation of this final bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50931	I thank the chairman. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. You have before you the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. A law on judicial co-operation in criminal matters between EU Member States has been passed in order to transpose EU rules in the field of judicial co-operation in Croatia. It came into force in 2010 1.7.2013 when the Republic of Croatia joined the EU. This law lays down the forms of judicial cooperation between Member States such as the European Arrest Warrant, the recognition of the execution of sentences imposed on prison or probationary measures and the like. You are facing the fourth amendments and amendments to the laws that go towards further compliance with the new two directives, which have been adopted at EU level in the meantime. It is the EU Directive on the right to access a lawyer in criminal proceedings and proceedings on the basis of a European arrest warrant and the right to inform a third party in the event of a withdrawal of freedom and communication with third parties and consular authorities and the European Investigation Order Directive in criminal proceedings. The purpose of the first and the objective of the first Directive is to create minimum standards relating to the right of an attorney in particular in the section relating to procedures under the European arrest warrant. As far as the second directive is concerned, it aims to mean that it is the European Research Order Directive to create a comprehensive system of carrying out evidence in the EU area. Before that Directive, this substance was very fragmented, and this way and these amendments of the law create one whole system. What is essential is that the European Investigation Order is issued by a judicial authority when one or more investigative actions are to be carried out or evidence carried out in the territory of another Member State and is now regulated. In addition, after consulting in the preparation and drafting of the law, the judicial authorities and those experienced in the application of the law, then we took advantage of these opportunities to detect the weaknesses of the legislative framework in advance or to remove them. It is foreseen that the law enters into force eight days after its publication in the NN, the Croatian Parliament adopted at its session on 7 July 2017 the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters between EU Member States. As regards the draft law, the legal text has not been significantly amended, it is only about changes in the nomotechnical nature. We also note that the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament pointed to the need for nomotechnical amendment of Article 21, and in this regard the same change was made. Thank you. MILLIAN BRKIĆ:
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50932	I thank the respected Secretary of State, Mr. Christian Turkalj, for this explanation. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50933	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, dear colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. Here is the final proposal for a law that we had already discussed in our first reading, and now, in the opening statement, the secretary of state said the basic things that had been changed, and in order to comply with the directives, I would not have been much longer about it. I'd just say that we're in front of the HDZ Club thinking that this final bill is well-prepared. We believe that some things are good that are so prescribed for the reasons that this will contribute to legal certainty in judicial cooperation between EU Member States and in the procedures that are being carried out. We can only point out that, in relation to the proposal for a law that was in the first reading, Article 21 has been nomotechnically completed in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives. The other amendments and there were no after the first reading, and we can say that we are satisfied because this law prescribes minimum standards that strengthen mutual trust and facilitate judicial cooperation based on the principle of mutual recognition, which is very positive and leads to a higher level of legal certainty and therefore, as I said, we will support this final draft of the law. And I just note that no additional funding will be necessary for the implementation of the law in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50934	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50935	My colleague Jelkovac, here I don't know what time legal initiatives are always expected, but we, in continuity, have European directives here and then we boast that we are well prepared. How much of these laws do we have, how much do we bring about, will it even apply or does it even make sense to bring this to Parliament if it is a directive? We just directives, is this a directive or is it a recommendation? So if we Parliamentarians want to accept this, we can accept it is time to do something outside the EU directive, to become our own at least once. All day long here in Parliament, all we get is European directives on the table. The time is here I am also telling the ministry to start doing something inside the ministry, not just copying directives that are inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50936	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50937	Dear colleague Bulj, I find your attitude interesting, but I must deny you. So for a little while we have completed the debate on the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, which has nothing to do with the European directives, we have a series of draft laws here in the Parliament that have nothing to do with the directives, but we must also be aware that as a member of the EU we must also comply with our legislation with the acquis of the EU and thus adopt laws and amendments to the law which will approach harmonisation with the directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50938	I thank my colleague Jelkovac for his reply. Final word on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr Christian Turkalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50939	Honorable MPs, MPs. I'd just look back on why we're making this regulation. We therefore adopt this regulation in order to make it easier for us to carry out criminal proceedings, so that we can cooperate more easily among Member States that the evidence found in a Member State becomes available to our executive bodies. As far as the directives themselves are concerned, they may sound in our language that they are guidelines, that it is something optional, but in accordance with our Constitution, the directive is legally above the law. By the legal nature of the directive must be transposed into a national legal framework and they have a time limit for transposition. Unless they are transposed into national law, the European Commission may sue us before the EU court for breach of legal obligations. So it's our obligation, but it's a commitment that gives our authorities advantages in the conduct of criminal persecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50940	I thank Mr. Secretary of State Christian Turkalj for this final word. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50941	Dear Secretary. So what I said was that these directives were above the law, I don't know we could rewrite it, you asked the people or you knew when it was coming into the EU, I don't know if you were but the political elite what she signed, what directives. And the fact that we have predilection, then promised when we join the EU that we will be a legal state, but all these tycoons that have been exploited, war profiters and in privatisation and during the Homeland War are still at large, and who asks them what they are, I think, the directives you give to the MPs, we vote on them, and they are above the law. Therefore, we have little sovereignty, so that means that we left anything when we entered the EU because we really just have to copy and it's too much to deal with, and what we see is the situation in the Republic of Croatia and because of the situation in the judiciary today we also have a large number of people leaving because of legal uncertainty from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50942	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. He doesn't want to answer Mr. Turkalj. Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on this item on the agenda, and we will vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50943	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 146. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the EU Member States. Please, let's vote. I find that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the EU Member States has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50944	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on International Private Law, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 141. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I call upon the Secretary of State of State, Mr. Christian Turkalj, to give us an additional explanation of this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50945	I thank the chairman. Representatives, MPs, Your Honor. Here is the final proposal of the Law on International Private Law. It is a regulation that does not transpose EU rules. So at this point, this matter is regulated by the Law on the Resolution of the Laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations, the law that was adopted in 1982 and which we took over in the Republic of Croatia in '91. Sucession. So 35 years have passed since, we call it the ZRS in force since then, the circumstances have changed significantly and we felt that this law needs to be modernised. This law has been working for some four years, so it has been working thoroughly on this law. What this law covers, these are rules on applicable law applicable to private relations with international features, these are rules on jurisdiction as well as rules on the recognition and enforcement of foreign court decisions whose subject-matter is referred to as private relations with international character. What is important for the purpose of transparency of the relevant rules of a specific provision of the Law on International Private Law refer to the application of relevant EU regulations and international contracts. In this respect, the Law on International Private Law follows an approach which has been adopted in other Member States where laws are recently passed that codify international private law, such as Belgian, Dutch, Czech, Bulgarian, Romanian law. The aim was to avoid a dualist system between third countries and that system that would exist between EU member states. At its meeting on 7 July 2017, the Croatian Parliament adopted the draft law. The proposer has now prepared the final draft law on international private law, which has been completed in relation to the text of the bill. The comments of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee concerning the 4 articles have been respected and they have been nomotechnically arranged. It was also adopted in accordance with Article 80 of the Legislative Committee that the amendments to one law did not put the provisions of other laws out of force, so the provisions requiring amendments to the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law of the Sea were rejected. It was therefore necessary to establish a longer vacacio legis, i.e. a longer period of time for entry into force in order to amend the two rules in question in the meantime. We also needed longer vacatio legis since it was a significant change in the approach to this matter, so that practitioners through education can prepare for the application of this law. The following provision is made for the law to enter into force on 29 January 2019 on the same day that two important regulations governing the same area enter into force. What is important, therefore, delaying the application of this law will not lead to legal gaps and serves exclusively to better prepare its application in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50946	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Christian Turkalj, for this explanation. We have one replica. Dear fellow Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50947	So, very briefly. Indeed only a higher comment especially on this last part regarding vacatio legis, so delaying the application of the law on January 29, 2019. We absolutely support that attitude. Of course, what you mentioned is that for 35 years we have been teaching students and we are working under one law from that, so we have entered the EU and we are talking about legal norms and regulations from the former state. So, I think this should have happened before, but surely by reading a little bit of this material itself, especially in comparison with the previous fact that this period of vacacio legis will also be used to produce already new literature at the university itself, and above all to remove all the legal uncertainty, the shortcomings that we naturally had by entering the EU and the new provisions of international private law itself. So this vacatio-legis thing is definitely supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50948	I thank Mr. Churay for this replica. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50949	Thank you very much. Here I'm going to be very brief since today we're really exhausted with a long-term debate and we're all a little tired. Of course, all of us, especially us legal professions, are happy that after 35 years we are getting a new law, a modern law that will indeed solve this area much better for some and new institutes, and therefore, for the reasons mentioned by the Secretary of State, it is indeed justified by this type of legislation. I think he is even skillfully established in view of the entry into force of these two important regulations. What I would only point out, which is that the law in force now in force in the new law extends the possibility of obtaining information on foreign law from other bodies, experts and specialised institutions in determining the content of foreign law, and that the extension of the application of Croatian law to situations where the content of real law cannot be established, and the exclusion of the application of the rules of foreign law on the determination of the applicable law in cases of reference to foreign law, i.e. the abolition of return in those cases. It is also important to say that the public order, i.e. the Croatian public interest is protected by the rules of direct application that can be applied in any situation regardless of what right is relevant to us. Here in front of the HDZ Club I can say that we are very pleased that this law has come to another reading today. As the secretary of state said all the remarks from the first reading were more or less appreciated and we as a club will support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50950	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac. We have one replica. Dear colleague Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50951	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. Here's a colleague you pointed out that we have passed this law after 35 years of applying the Law on conflict resolution by law prescribed by other countries on certain relations. We're all happy to pass this law even though it's a little late and there's not much of us. But I think it is important to stress the importance of this regulation, to highlight the time in which we bring it, the time when we are aware of greater international mobility, greater needs and greater realization of precisely international private relations. This law sets out well and I am glad that some suggestions of the Legislative Committee have been accepted, they are well covered in these general provisions of the terms and conditions relating to citizenship, residence and the rest. It is important to stress precisely this law to avoid the judicial jurisdiction of Croatian courts and courts of foreign states, in the second part to address the same issue of personal status, permanent law, intellectual property rights, which is increasingly regulated and should be pointed out definitely that the possibility is expanded by this law, the possibility of obtaining information on the side of the rights of other bodies of witches which the courts have so far had a major problem, and I can also imagine how much the problem was precisely using an outdated 35-year-old law. The emphasis is on greater party autonomy and part three also regulates the jurisdiction and procedure itself and matters in the end, and only recognition of the conduct of foreign court decisions is extremely important. Finally, I will just point out that we should definitely be honest and thank the academic community with all the legal colleges in the Republic of Croatia that are initiators in order to get rid of this matter, they worked for a long, four years so that we definitely thank them this way and we need to apply this as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50952	I thank Mr. Bacic for this replica. This concludes the debate on this item on the agenda we will vote on this point when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the State Secretary of Justice, Mr Kristian Turkalj, Assistant Minister of Justice Ivan Crnčec, Chief of Sector Tamara Mishardi and Head of Department Dragana Milunic... on the arguments and interpretations of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50953	Final draft law on international private law, second reading, P.Z. No. 141. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on international private law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 101 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Law on International Private Law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50954	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on International Private Law, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 141. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I call upon the Secretary of State of State, Mr. Christian Turkalj, to give us an additional explanation of this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50955	I thank the chairman. Representatives, MPs, Your Honor. Here is the final proposal of the Law on International Private Law. It is a regulation that does not transpose EU rules. So at this point, this matter is regulated by the Law on the Resolution of the Laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations, the law that was adopted in 1982 and which we took over in the Republic of Croatia in '91. Sucession. So 35 years have passed since, we call it the ZRS in force since then, the circumstances have changed significantly and we felt that this law needs to be modernised. This law has been working for some four years, so it has been working thoroughly on this law. What this law covers, these are rules on applicable law applicable to private relations with international features, these are rules on jurisdiction as well as rules on the recognition and enforcement of foreign court decisions whose subject-matter is referred to as private relations with international character. What is important for the purpose of transparency of the relevant rules of a specific provision of the Law on International Private Law refer to the application of relevant EU regulations and international contracts. In this respect, the Law on International Private Law follows an approach which has been adopted in other Member States where laws are recently passed that codify international private law, such as Belgian, Dutch, Czech, Bulgarian, Romanian law. The aim was to avoid a dualist system between third countries and that system that would exist between EU member states. At its meeting on 7 July 2017, the Croatian Parliament adopted the draft law. The proposer has now prepared the final draft law on international private law, which has been completed in relation to the text of the bill. The comments of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee concerning the 4 articles have been respected and they have been nomotechnically arranged. It was also adopted in accordance with Article 80 of the Legislative Committee that the amendments to one law did not put the provisions of other laws out of force, so the provisions requiring amendments to the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law of the Sea were rejected. It was therefore necessary to establish a longer vacacio legis, i.e. a longer period of time for entry into force in order to amend the two rules in question in the meantime. We also needed longer vacatio legis since it was a significant change in the approach to this matter, so that practitioners through education can prepare for the application of this law. The following provision is made for the law to enter into force on 29 January 2019 on the same day that two important regulations governing the same area enter into force. What is important, therefore, delaying the application of this law will not lead to legal gaps and serves exclusively to better prepare its application in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50956	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Christian Turkalj, for this explanation. We have one replica. Dear fellow Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50957	So, very briefly. Indeed only a higher comment especially on this last part regarding vacatio legis, so delaying the application of the law on January 29, 2019. We absolutely support that attitude. Of course, what you mentioned is that for 35 years we have been teaching students and we are working under one law from that, so we have entered the EU and we are talking about legal norms and regulations from the former state. So, I think this should have happened before, but surely by reading a little bit of this material itself, especially in comparison with the previous fact that this period of vacacio legis will also be used to produce already new literature at the university itself, and above all to remove all the legal uncertainty, the shortcomings that we naturally had by entering the EU and the new provisions of international private law itself. So this vacatio-legis thing is definitely supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50958	I thank Mr. Churay for this replica. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50959	Thank you very much. Here I'm going to be very brief since today we're really exhausted with a long-term debate and we're all a little tired. Of course, all of us, especially us legal professions, are happy that after 35 years we are getting a new law, a modern law that will indeed solve this area much better for some and new institutes, and therefore, for the reasons mentioned by the Secretary of State, it is indeed justified by this type of legislation. I think he is even skillfully established in view of the entry into force of these two important regulations. What I would only point out, which is that the law in force now in force in the new law extends the possibility of obtaining information on foreign law from other bodies, experts and specialised institutions in determining the content of foreign law, and that the extension of the application of Croatian law to situations where the content of real law cannot be established, and the exclusion of the application of the rules of foreign law on the determination of the applicable law in cases of reference to foreign law, i.e. the abolition of return in those cases. It is also important to say that the public order, i.e. the Croatian public interest is protected by the rules of direct application that can be applied in any situation regardless of what right is relevant to us. Here in front of the HDZ Club I can say that we are very pleased that this law has come to another reading today. As the secretary of state said all the remarks from the first reading were more or less appreciated and we as a club will support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50960	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac. We have one replica. Dear colleague Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50961	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. Here's a colleague you pointed out that we have passed this law after 35 years of applying the Law on conflict resolution by law prescribed by other countries on certain relations. We're all happy to pass this law even though it's a little late and there's not much of us. But I think it is important to stress the importance of this regulation, to highlight the time in which we bring it, the time when we are aware of greater international mobility, greater needs and greater realization of precisely international private relations. This law sets out well and I am glad that some suggestions of the Legislative Committee have been accepted, they are well covered in these general provisions of the terms and conditions relating to citizenship, residence and the rest. It is important to stress precisely this law to avoid the judicial jurisdiction of Croatian courts and courts of foreign states, in the second part to address the same issue of personal status, permanent law, intellectual property rights, which is increasingly regulated and should be pointed out definitely that the possibility is expanded by this law, the possibility of obtaining information on the side of the rights of other bodies of witches which the courts have so far had a major problem, and I can also imagine how much the problem was precisely using an outdated 35-year-old law. The emphasis is on greater party autonomy and part three also regulates the jurisdiction and procedure itself and matters in the end, and only recognition of the conduct of foreign court decisions is extremely important. Finally, I will just point out that we should definitely be honest and thank the academic community with all the legal colleges in the Republic of Croatia that are initiators in order to get rid of this matter, they worked for a long, four years so that we definitely thank them this way and we need to apply this as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50962	I thank Mr. Bacic for this replica. This concludes the debate on this item on the agenda we will vote on this point when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the State Secretary of Justice, Mr Kristian Turkalj, Assistant Minister of Justice Ivan Crnčec, Chief of Sector Tamara Mishardi and Head of Department Dragana Milunic... on the arguments and interpretations of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50963	Final draft law on international private law, second reading, P.Z. No. 141. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on international private law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 101 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Law on International Private Law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50964	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Pension Fund Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 191 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. I ask the secretary of state at the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, respected by Mrs Majda Buric, to give us an additional explanation of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50965	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs, good evening. Therefore, the Retirement Fund Act was adopted in order to fulfil the obligations arising from the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May 1998 governing the compensation of pensioners under the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May 1998. On the basis of that law, a special pension fund was established from which pensioners or their successors from the first order were paid each year for the sums of individual compensations. In the period from 2006 to 2016 HPB Invest d.o.o. The pension fund management company paid a total of 10.2 billion kuna for 488 577 members of the pension fund. Since the last payment of the debt to pensioners was paid on 19 December 2013, the Republic of Croatia, as the founder of the pension fund, fulfilled its last obligation to pay all the members of the fund, thus ending the need to become a pension fund. By way of effect of this law, the pension fund ceases to exist and HZMO will assume the property, rights and obligations of the pension fund and will, for its own sake and for its own account, take possession of the items in the procedures which are held for the account of the fund and which are not terminated until the entry into force of this law. It is specifically about 6 court proceedings of total value of 436 646 kuna. On 30 June 2017, the amount of funds in the account of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the pension fund amounts to €5.4 million. Any unused financial resources will be transferred to the account of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia as funds for deposits from which HZMO will pay the costs for the conduct of the proceedings and the conduct of the transactions taken over. The Fund and HZMO Management Company will conclude within 15 days, from the date of entry into force of this law, an agreement which will detailedly regulate the submission of data and documentation to each other's rights and obligations and the rest, and within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the company will submit both to the Croatian Parliament and to the Croatian Parliament and to the HANFA and HZMO the revised financial report on the state of the assets and liabilities of the Fund with effect on the date of entry into force of this law. The supervision of the operation of the fund management company in the part relating to the obligations arising from this law for the company will also be carried out by HANFA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50966	I would like to thank respecting Secretary of State Majdi Buric for this explanation. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives GLAS and HSU, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50967	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As I was saying on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU at the time of the debate on the report on the work of the pension fund from 2010 to 2015 to impose the need to stop, i.e. to liquidate, or close the pension fund. Since he has fulfilled his obligation, here we have not long waited, this bill has come to our tables, or, on the agenda, and we are discussing this proposal of the Law on the termination of the Retirement Fund Act in the first reading. Too bad, I don't want to affect the Rules of Procedure, but this really, in this law won't really change until the second reading, so of course, that's right, the Office of the Law of the Republic of Croatia, to push as many laws as possible into two readings, but here it really wasn't necessary and I believe that none of us would be opposed to an emergency procedure. But, well, I can't, as a parliamentary representative, advocate an emergency procedure, but for practical reasons I can say this, because here if someone wants to look at and in the light of this law they can see a retrospective event from 2006-2013, i.e. teaching until 2017 when this story has to be simply finished. Because there is really no reason for such an institution to function in a coldly suitable manner, creating costs, not benefiting from its task with the exception of these 5.6 disputes that are being held in desert debates, whose value is relatively small, the estimated value is relatively small, this cold drive is also paying certain fees and HPB investment and certain administrations and boards etc. It really doesn't make sense. And this is an excellent contribution to rationalising the general government's business. At the same time, as a participant of this entire project from the beginning, I am extremely proud that this started in 2006 and that this came to an end. It's a project I once performed out in the open for. I don't know, I guess I wasn't convincing enough, but then it was an Open TV show, 91% of the people of the Republic of Croatia, then in 2005, they didn't believe that the pensioners would get a single kuna. So I'm very glad that we reassured them and that it was worth believing in the realization of this idea and somehow you prefer it when a lot of people don't believe and then something happens. At the same time, I must say that there was no political will, not at that time, perhaps no possibility, no later deprived. And three more categories that have been damaged, which have passed under the radar, but back there can't be any more, and what's done is, nobody's gonna get ahold of this anymore. I've tried to initiate multiple times to get more people involved, e.g. There were 700 people who were in a working relationship, i.e. they were in a working relationship with the entry into force of this law but were retired until 1998. So in that direct reading of the articles of the law, they would be entitled to compensation. However, the legislator said, only those who found that day and that day in 2004 have the right to compensation. So, in my personal name not amnesting anyone, I apologize to those people who didn't exercise that right, but no matter what, this is one big project that went through, here through a total of 11, or, practically in 9 years, it was realized in 2006 to 2013 and I think that we can all unanimously support this law and be, in a way, let's be satisfied with this realization, although the trauma of the pensioners from 1994-1998 when they belonged to 100 and they were getting 40% reduced pension, we can't compensate for it. It should also be said that those who have not, who have not calculated the right to cash compensation, i.e. on compensation, have not lost those 100 kunas and 6% because they are paid and installed to them by the day of today, which someone lives, and are in construction pensions. So, I have to admit, all the governments so far, starting then with Mr. Sanader's government, have been independent of solving these problems. It didn't go smoothly, nobody pushed, let's get rid of it, but one reasonable way was to solve this problem and when it went right. There is still a need to add here that about 480000 were said to have been compensated, however, some 40,000 people had never raised because the damages were at the level of 50 lips, 5 kuna, 150 kuna, 500 kuna, and then when it was offered in a variant or half in two years or the total amount paid for 8 years, or 6 years with 2 years beginning, these people never reported. And yet I have to say there were trees and rocks because there were about 190 million kunas, and I don't have to be very precise in the decimal, 2005 on the account of a fund of so-called. The ghastly possessions of these people who never answered. Therefore, among those who died without an heir, it becomes an audible property, i.e. the property of the state of Croatia. And then in 2015, we suggested that all pensioners be paid for Christmas, a one-time retirement allowance, and that on the other hand, those who have the lowest, who have the lowest pensions get the biggest Christmas card. Of course, in 2015 it was prescribed, in some way declared a pre-election trick, but let someone think what they want, I think we gave it rightly to the pensioners because it was both their and their colleagues. Here, there is not much to add because indeed only someone who is bad could go and analyze or find comments to this retrospective because there is not one false fact here, so all the facts are important for payments, important for dates, important for amounts in the light of this law mentioned. So this is all clear if someone wants and can keep it as one historical retrospective of everything that's been going on. The law has all these obligations that are already state secretary, that is, all of these articles and these norms that the secretary of state has already read and highlighted so that there is no need, there is no need to repeat them. There was some little fear at HZMO that they would do it but I think it's in this period from the creation of this law to the realisation all ironed out and there's no fear because everything here is transparent. Here, of course, I personally in front of HSU and club GLAS and HSU will support this law both in the first and second readings of course when it comes. I hope he comes at the same time so we can come together with that report on the work of the Retirement Fund for 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50968	I thank Mr. Hrelja for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50969	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms Buric, with co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Taught by what Mr. Hrelja said, I will only hope that even after that decision of the Constitutional Court, this right to compensation was actually given to users of old, early age, disability and family pensions achieved under the Law on Fundamental Rights of Pension and Disabilities Insurance. My colleague Hrelj said that this was actually a chronology of events presented to us in this bill from 2006 to 2013. And the fact is that at that time in 2005, many did not believe that this would happen, or that one kuna would be paid, but it happened fortunately. In her opening statement, the State Secretary told the rest of the 10.5, I apologize for the 10.5 billion kuna funds paid, but also for the part of the funds left in the fund that will actually be transferred through the Treasury to HZMO funds. That part of the unsolved items are actually going to be paid off from those funds as far as I know they're 6. The law itself has 11 articles and they're actually just talking about that implementation that applies to HZMO. All costs, of course, incurred for the account of the former fund and the costs incurred after the entry into force of this law in connection with the execution of the remaining obligations arising from this law implementing this decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia for the compensation of the beneficiaries, as regards that decision of the Constitutional Court, shall be borne by the institution itself. I'm just surprised we're going in two readings, I don't think that was necessary at all. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50970	I would like to thank my colleague Babic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Retirement Fund Act, everything is already said in the previous debate in the first reading. It wasn't possible, I'm sorry, I was thinking of another law, it's a little late, so here's the drop and the concentration, but I was thinking maybe you don't have to do two readings at all since this is something that makes sense after a certain period and all this money that went through that account, that's through that fund, and that's those members, 88 thousand of them in some way with 10 billion kuna, and it's depreciated. And one story that lasts for a certain time ends. And the SDP's Club of Representatives will support this, this law in both the first and second readings so that we simply end one process that lasted a certain period and which, in our opinion, is a lot of topics that we disagree with here, clearly we had the same debate in this House. But it is important to say that one job has been completed and that it is simply necessary to pass this law. Here, the SDP counseling club supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50972	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for this debate. We move on to the next debate, an individual, respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic. He's gone. Thank you. Is it possible that the proposer's representative would like a final word?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50973	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a little late, so I got confused, mostly just one sentence, and I'm glad you've all responded positively to the bill. And I think that in one sentence, Hrelja's colleague said well, only one who's very bad could be against this. So, I'm glad we're all thinking the same thing, and this proves that the state of Croatia has respected the pensioner's threshold and paid back the interest debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50974	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this closing statement. I hereby conclude the debate and we will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50975	Proposal for a law on the termination of the Pension Fund Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 191. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.The proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Pension Fund, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 100 votes in favour, 2 votes against the delivered conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50976	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Pension Fund Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 191 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. I ask the secretary of state at the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, respected by Mrs Majda Buric, to give us an additional explanation of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50977	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs, good evening. Therefore, the Retirement Fund Act was adopted in order to fulfil the obligations arising from the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May 1998 governing the compensation of pensioners under the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May 1998. On the basis of that law, a special pension fund was established from which pensioners or their successors from the first order were paid each year for the sums of individual compensations. In the period from 2006 to 2016 HPB Invest d.o.o. The pension fund management company paid a total of 10.2 billion kuna for 488 577 members of the pension fund. Since the last payment of the debt to pensioners was paid on 19 December 2013, the Republic of Croatia, as the founder of the pension fund, fulfilled its last obligation to pay all the members of the fund, thus ending the need to become a pension fund. By way of effect of this law, the pension fund ceases to exist and HZMO will assume the property, rights and obligations of the pension fund and will, for its own sake and for its own account, take possession of the items in the procedures which are held for the account of the fund and which are not terminated until the entry into force of this law. It is specifically about 6 court proceedings of total value of 436 646 kuna. On 30 June 2017, the amount of funds in the account of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the pension fund amounts to €5.4 million. Any unused financial resources will be transferred to the account of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia as funds for deposits from which HZMO will pay the costs for the conduct of the proceedings and the conduct of the transactions taken over. The Fund and HZMO Management Company will conclude within 15 days, from the date of entry into force of this law, an agreement which will detailedly regulate the submission of data and documentation to each other's rights and obligations and the rest, and within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the company will submit both to the Croatian Parliament and to the Croatian Parliament and to the HANFA and HZMO the revised financial report on the state of the assets and liabilities of the Fund with effect on the date of entry into force of this law. The supervision of the operation of the fund management company in the part relating to the obligations arising from this law for the company will also be carried out by HANFA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50978	I would like to thank respecting Secretary of State Majdi Buric for this explanation. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives GLAS and HSU, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50979	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As I was saying on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU at the time of the debate on the report on the work of the pension fund from 2010 to 2015 to impose the need to stop, i.e. to liquidate, or close the pension fund. Since he has fulfilled his obligation, here we have not long waited, this bill has come to our tables, or, on the agenda, and we are discussing this proposal of the Law on the termination of the Retirement Fund Act in the first reading. Too bad, I don't want to affect the Rules of Procedure, but this really, in this law won't really change until the second reading, so of course, that's right, the Office of the Law of the Republic of Croatia, to push as many laws as possible into two readings, but here it really wasn't necessary and I believe that none of us would be opposed to an emergency procedure. But, well, I can't, as a parliamentary representative, advocate an emergency procedure, but for practical reasons I can say this, because here if someone wants to look at and in the light of this law they can see a retrospective event from 2006-2013, i.e. teaching until 2017 when this story has to be simply finished. Because there is really no reason for such an institution to function in a coldly suitable manner, creating costs, not benefiting from its task with the exception of these 5.6 disputes that are being held in desert debates, whose value is relatively small, the estimated value is relatively small, this cold drive is also paying certain fees and HPB investment and certain administrations and boards etc. It really doesn't make sense. And this is an excellent contribution to rationalising the general government's business. At the same time, as a participant of this entire project from the beginning, I am extremely proud that this started in 2006 and that this came to an end. It's a project I once performed out in the open for. I don't know, I guess I wasn't convincing enough, but then it was an Open TV show, 91% of the people of the Republic of Croatia, then in 2005, they didn't believe that the pensioners would get a single kuna. So I'm very glad that we reassured them and that it was worth believing in the realization of this idea and somehow you prefer it when a lot of people don't believe and then something happens. At the same time, I must say that there was no political will, not at that time, perhaps no possibility, no later deprived. And three more categories that have been damaged, which have passed under the radar, but back there can't be any more, and what's done is, nobody's gonna get ahold of this anymore. I've tried to initiate multiple times to get more people involved, e.g. There were 700 people who were in a working relationship, i.e. they were in a working relationship with the entry into force of this law but were retired until 1998. So in that direct reading of the articles of the law, they would be entitled to compensation. However, the legislator said, only those who found that day and that day in 2004 have the right to compensation. So, in my personal name not amnesting anyone, I apologize to those people who didn't exercise that right, but no matter what, this is one big project that went through, here through a total of 11, or, practically in 9 years, it was realized in 2006 to 2013 and I think that we can all unanimously support this law and be, in a way, let's be satisfied with this realization, although the trauma of the pensioners from 1994-1998 when they belonged to 100 and they were getting 40% reduced pension, we can't compensate for it. It should also be said that those who have not, who have not calculated the right to cash compensation, i.e. on compensation, have not lost those 100 kunas and 6% because they are paid and installed to them by the day of today, which someone lives, and are in construction pensions. So, I have to admit, all the governments so far, starting then with Mr. Sanader's government, have been independent of solving these problems. It didn't go smoothly, nobody pushed, let's get rid of it, but one reasonable way was to solve this problem and when it went right. There is still a need to add here that about 480000 were said to have been compensated, however, some 40,000 people had never raised because the damages were at the level of 50 lips, 5 kuna, 150 kuna, 500 kuna, and then when it was offered in a variant or half in two years or the total amount paid for 8 years, or 6 years with 2 years beginning, these people never reported. And yet I have to say there were trees and rocks because there were about 190 million kunas, and I don't have to be very precise in the decimal, 2005 on the account of a fund of so-called. The ghastly possessions of these people who never answered. Therefore, among those who died without an heir, it becomes an audible property, i.e. the property of the state of Croatia. And then in 2015, we suggested that all pensioners be paid for Christmas, a one-time retirement allowance, and that on the other hand, those who have the lowest, who have the lowest pensions get the biggest Christmas card. Of course, in 2015 it was prescribed, in some way declared a pre-election trick, but let someone think what they want, I think we gave it rightly to the pensioners because it was both their and their colleagues. Here, there is not much to add because indeed only someone who is bad could go and analyze or find comments to this retrospective because there is not one false fact here, so all the facts are important for payments, important for dates, important for amounts in the light of this law mentioned. So this is all clear if someone wants and can keep it as one historical retrospective of everything that's been going on. The law has all these obligations that are already state secretary, that is, all of these articles and these norms that the secretary of state has already read and highlighted so that there is no need, there is no need to repeat them. There was some little fear at HZMO that they would do it but I think it's in this period from the creation of this law to the realisation all ironed out and there's no fear because everything here is transparent. Here, of course, I personally in front of HSU and club GLAS and HSU will support this law both in the first and second readings of course when it comes. I hope he comes at the same time so we can come together with that report on the work of the Retirement Fund for 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50980	I thank Mr. Hrelja for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50981	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms Buric, with co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Taught by what Mr. Hrelja said, I will only hope that even after that decision of the Constitutional Court, this right to compensation was actually given to users of old, early age, disability and family pensions achieved under the Law on Fundamental Rights of Pension and Disabilities Insurance. My colleague Hrelj said that this was actually a chronology of events presented to us in this bill from 2006 to 2013. And the fact is that at that time in 2005, many did not believe that this would happen, or that one kuna would be paid, but it happened fortunately. In her opening statement, the State Secretary told the rest of the 10.5, I apologize for the 10.5 billion kuna funds paid, but also for the part of the funds left in the fund that will actually be transferred through the Treasury to HZMO funds. That part of the unsolved items are actually going to be paid off from those funds as far as I know they're 6. The law itself has 11 articles and they're actually just talking about that implementation that applies to HZMO. All costs, of course, incurred for the account of the former fund and the costs incurred after the entry into force of this law in connection with the execution of the remaining obligations arising from this law implementing this decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia for the compensation of the beneficiaries, as regards that decision of the Constitutional Court, shall be borne by the institution itself. I'm just surprised we're going in two readings, I don't think that was necessary at all. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50982	I would like to thank my colleague Babic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Retirement Fund Act, everything is already said in the previous debate in the first reading. It wasn't possible, I'm sorry, I was thinking of another law, it's a little late, so here's the drop and the concentration, but I was thinking maybe you don't have to do two readings at all since this is something that makes sense after a certain period and all this money that went through that account, that's through that fund, and that's those members, 88 thousand of them in some way with 10 billion kuna, and it's depreciated. And one story that lasts for a certain time ends. And the SDP's Club of Representatives will support this, this law in both the first and second readings so that we simply end one process that lasted a certain period and which, in our opinion, is a lot of topics that we disagree with here, clearly we had the same debate in this House. But it is important to say that one job has been completed and that it is simply necessary to pass this law. Here, the SDP counseling club supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50984	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for this debate. We move on to the next debate, an individual, respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic. He's gone. Thank you. Is it possible that the proposer's representative would like a final word?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50985	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a little late, so I got confused, mostly just one sentence, and I'm glad you've all responded positively to the bill. And I think that in one sentence, Hrelja's colleague said well, only one who's very bad could be against this. So, I'm glad we're all thinking the same thing, and this proves that the state of Croatia has respected the pensioner's threshold and paid back the interest debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50986	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this closing statement. I hereby conclude the debate and we will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50987	Proposal for a law on the termination of the Pension Fund Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 191. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.The proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Pension Fund, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 100 votes in favour, 2 votes against the delivered conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50988	We now have 2 laws: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils, first reading of P.Z.E. No.187 - Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 185 Why do I read to you both, since this is a similar topic and changes to the Labour Act, and they are very much entering into this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on European Workers' Councils, so my proposal is to argue that these two laws are united, if no one objects? There isn't. Thank you. So we're going to discuss these two bill proposals. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Assembly shall apply. The debate was conducted by the parent committee and the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. He would ask the State Secretary, the respected Majda Buric, to further inform us and further explain these proposals and these two laws. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50989	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here we go again, good evening. The Labour Act, which has been in force since 7.8.2014, transposed by the law on the legal order of the Republic of Croatia in the field of labour legislation. The amendment took place on 6.10.2015, by adopting Directive 2015/1794 of the European Parliament and of the Council which amended, in addition to others, the 3 Directives which are in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, transposed by the Labour Act with a deadline for transposition into national legislation by 10.10.2017. The purpose of that Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council is to ensure, in the context of the European strategic objectives of employment as well as the integrated maritime policy, in a transparent and coherent manner, the protection of the rights of the seafarers and in the matter governing the procedures for notifying and consulting the demonstration of the collective surplus as well as the transfer of the labour contract to the new employer. During the normative procedure itself, it has been found that the general provisions of the Labour Act do not exclude a seaman, i.e. a crew member, but that they really ensure that the same level of rights, as well as other workers, is achieved in accordance with the EU Directive already mentioned in 2015/1794. In addition, the planned achievement of the general normative objective, therefore, of the implementation of that Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council itself, and of the problems identified in the implementation of the law, is an exceptional objective, with the consent of both the social partners and all other stakeholders, which is to enable the implementation and proper application of the legal provisions contained in the labour law institute, co-decision of the working council, i.e., the replacement of the consent of the working council, i.e. the trade union. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour and the Pensions Constitution proposes that the Law amending Article 2 relating to the Law on Labour amend Article 2 in conjunction with the implementation of that Directive and amending Article 151 relating to jurisdiction, in the procedure of replacing consent, in the manner in which it was governed by the Labour Act 2009 and in an appropriate manner amending other provisions which constitute a working legal institute of co-decision. I will bring all these together with the Law on European Workers' Councils, as the debate is united. In addition to the close subject matter I was just talking about, it should be said that during the normative procedure it was found that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils needed to amend Article 2 again in view of the implementation and correct implementation of the name of the directive itself, and to name the new Directives. Article 14 relating to conditions for the work of the negotiating committee and Article 31 relating to the working conditions of the European Workers' Council should also be added to ensure, most importantly, the conditions for facilitating participation in meetings of all members of the Negotiating Committee and of the European Workers' Council, as well as to the members of the seamen and to the use of modern communication channels, information and communication technologies in accordance with the requirements of EU Directive 2015/1794. The consequences resulting from the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils are the fulfilment of the international obligation of the Republic of Croatia to implement the Directive, and to ensure an adequate level of law with the employer at a transnational level, all in line with European standards. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50990	I thank the secretary of state, the respected Majda Buric for these arguments, these two united laws. We have one replica, dear colleague Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50991	Dear Vice-President, you pointed out, you mentioned a few times exactly the status of the seamen as we are, we have a lot of sailors, it is important to highlight this about these amendments to the Labour Act, it is important to point out that the Republic of Croatia is one of the Member States that did not apply the exclusion of the seamen in its legislation and in particular this specific provisions of the law concerning this amendment, which is related to the right of the workers to participate in the decision which, by showing collective surplus and labour rights in the transfer of work contracts to new employers, excludes the seafarer. the worker and the sailor identify themselves and become one. And even though the rights of the seamen are regulated by the Maritime Code and other regulations, I think our seamen have the privilege of always calling on this general provision and this general regulation to do so, so I think that's very important to stress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50992	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for this replica. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you are, the chairman of the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50993	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Labour, Pension and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 20th session of 22 September 2017 discussed the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils and the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act as a working body and in the debate following the opening presentation of the applicant explaining certain needs to introduce certain amendments to our legislation relating to the implementation of Directive 2015/1794 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 2015 in the amendments to Directive 2008/94 E.Z., 2009/38 E.Z., 2002/14 E.Z. and Council Directive 98/59 E.Z. and 2001/23 E.Z. with regard to seafarers or to the modification of certain of our normative acts and legislative acts relating to their employment or employment of employers at a transnational level. The Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions, to reach a conclusion also on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on European Workers' Councils and on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour of P.Z. Number 187 and P.Z. Number 185. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50994	I thank the chairman of the committee, Mr. Gordan Maras, for this explanation. I'm opening a debate united by both laws. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. He's not present, he's losing his right to debate and individual. On behalf of the Club of Representatives GLAS, HSU, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50995	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, okay, today it's okay that we've united this debate, it's similar to the subject but it's not exactly the same if it's possible in the second reading that it's still planned for some more appropriate time and that it's you to try both laws individually, I didn't want to object because there's no point, because we can really do this in the first reading and I don't think there's gonna be any big objections to these two bill proposals and I believe there won't be any amendments to them because they're precise, correct, targeted, so there's no big deal. Finally, sufficient indicator when the amendments and additions of the Labour Act are in line with the social partners, which means employers and trade unions, that means most of the state institutions that are interested, means that we should still approach such laws with a very high level of trust and that we should not doubt such drafts of the law. What I want to say is that now our Labour Act has been strengthened for some directives, so it is not enough for those who want to read the Labour Act as it is written, it is not enough because the framework of the Labour Act has grown significantly because the EU directive is directly embedded in the legal system. Therefore, I am pleased that the sailors, I believe, too, have fought for many years for the recognition of their rights, for the transfer of their duties, whether they worked on domestic boaters or on foreign boaters, if someone suspects that we have not been able to get into the EU, this is certainly evidence that these structures have been paid to enter and apply a common European normative arrangement or practice. Of course, here, with the consent of the social partners, the issue of replacing consent during the resignation of the union commissioner is resolved, so the replacement of consent or union or the working council by court procedure. And we have to say that he's out of the game here and that there will be no more rules on arbitration because consent will be compensated with the judicial authorities. So we don't have any special dilemmas and GLAS, HSU will support the Labour Act both in the first and second readings. As far as the European Workers' Councils are concerned, they are not novelty. So, those companies that bought some solid companies I have some experience with Schott Boral from Pula, a glass factory, former Boris Kidric. They have respected decisions even before we were in the EU to invite our members of the Workers' Council to joint meetings. At least they did it once, at least once a year. So they knew each other, that they were communicating and that it wasn't our company in Pula, it wasn't an isolated island, or that it didn't know what policy the parent company was running. Today I'm saying this 15 years ago, today it all went forward and the possibilities of communication and video conferences and all that and, in essence, it speaks of such conditions for working Councils to say this law that all employers are obliged in all their parts where they have their exposures to so call and employees to ensure the conditions for the Workers' Council, the Central Workers' Council to communicate with all the Workers' Councils in their daughters' companies. If he knew about the fate of Todorovic, I would now tell him that he must ensure it in relation to Mercator, or his daughter in Slovenia. It doesn't have to do so yet if it won't go towards Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I don't know what the fate of the entire Agrokor concert will be, so I won't run with any recommendations. However, I know that our employers will have to do this because so far I have talked about what others have been doing in relation to their exposures in Croatia. However, we now have a new growing information giant who has recently opened its doors in the city of Vodnjan, Pula, which has 40 countries with its own exposures. So he's got his employees. He will surely have to implement this law and make sure that the Workers' Council, regardless of what is not quite the case in the IT industry, is worth some other rules. But if he wants to have long-term and stability, and he hires people for a large part of the time here. But it will also have to do so in other countries, not only Europe, but the world. And I think it will have to implement this law which is also very precise in defining the obligations towards the functioning of the Workers' Councils in let's say in the firms of daughters or in the exposures of the parent company from our country or our exposures to another country of origin. Also, this law is very precise and relatively easy to understand and there is no need to complicate it much, except to say that GLAS and Croatian pensioners will also support it in the first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50996	I thank my esteemed colleague, Silvana Hrelja, for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of IDS, PGS, LRI's esteemed colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50997	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Ms. Buric's esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. As the Proposer explained, the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act amends the general provisions of the law in order to make it clear that the law is in accordance with EU directives on seamen, i.e. that the contents of the general provisions laid down in the Law on Labour indicate that this general regulation applies to seamen as well. The club IDS, PGS and the List of Rivers is certain to support this law. However, we would like to propose something more if it can be completed, but certainly not only through your ministry, but also in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. In fact, the law says "seamen" and it seems to me the rest of them. We don't know who the rest of them are, but I would suggest for these others that you try to include one group of workers that are not covered by this law and are in a subordinate position to the workers of the seamen. My colleague Bacic said that we are a maritime land and that we must be famous for that. However, we are also known for some other professions that also work out a lot, and that's what it's all about. They're sent out to the workers. It may be an unknown term for sent workers, but I will read that definition of the sent worker. It's a worker, i.e. a natural person who performs a job in another country for an employer based in the Republic of Croatia. Such workers of Croatian law discriminate against tax and social treatment in relation to me talking to the seamen again. And that's what I'm going to say is that it's also one of the reasons why young experts are leaving our homeland, and here in this High House we often talk about how to help and prevent young people from moving out, and I'm going to try to explain why. So the Croatian expert is certainly today the export potential of this country and, when sending our experts to work abroad, are these informers as mentioned by counterpart Hrelja, a large centre of Infobip who has in 40 countries of the world its offices. Are they builders, are they workers like Djuro Djakovic? Whether it's engineers, electric engineers or any other sector. We don't have any tax relief in tax and income accounting. That's why I said we needed the Ministry of Finance. So persons who spend their time working outside Croatia for more than 183 days a year should at least be treated as sailors. Namely, a crew member in international navigation who has the usual residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia, if he spends on board an international boat for 183 days and is no longer a taxpayer of income tax on non-permanent work. For other activities whose employees spend the same number of days abroad there are no reliefs. So if we want to imitate ourselves and introduce the EU directives and look up to our neighbouring countries then we will see, I will not list all these examples. But our neighbouring countries of Slovenians, Italians and I will mention Serbs, so for the employee, the pay is defined specifically in Slovenia that he makes when he works in the country and the supplement he makes while he is abroad. So, the extra part that's being realized outside is not being paid for by any contribution, and the basic part in the country is being paid on one scale from 16% to 40%. It's similar in Italy. So over 183 days. On that basis, you pay 40%, to that extra part of zero. In Serbia, they are still going to say this additionally subsidized or stimulated, so that even today many companies that are based in Croatia are thinking, it can be checked with the Croatian Employers' Association about moving their headquarters to that country to get these benefits. They even have a double minimum base and it is paid by Serbs 10 to 15% and that supplement is nothing. Now in Croatia we have our Law on Contributions and there are three possibilities for us. Therefore, the basis on which the employer accounts and pays contributions is determined by a collective contract if the employer is obliged to apply it. A second option is if the collective contract has not been adopted, the pay shall be determined by the Labour Regulation, and if the employer is not obliged to adopt a labour contract under Article 37 of the same law, and that is the maximum wage that the worker would make for the same or similar jobs in the Republic of Croatia established under those acts increased by 20%. And that's not all. So, when that sent worker leaves Croatia if he works in EU countries or European economic space, that means Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland, and in countries where the Republic of Croatia implements a social insurance contract, which is BiH, Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro and Turkey, in that case, does not pay an additional 10% for health insurance. If it goes to some other countries, then it still has to pay 10% of the additional health insurance and it pays normally to the total amount of pay. So, if we take that we have joined the EU, then we are asking the IDS to change the way you tax that salary. So in our case, salaries are subject to taxation in accordance with the Income Tax Act and regardless of whether wages are paid in the Republic of Croatia or the second part outside is paid is equal and is taxed as income from non-performing labour. What I'd like to say. I said, that's why young experts go outside, employers transfer companies to other countries, and I think that through that law and together with the Ministry of Finance, we'd be praying that this might be reflected through this first or second reading, to install it. And that means that the position of the outsourced workers and the tax on their salaries is equal to the provisions prescribed by them as well as for the seamen. That would be the simplest thing for us. Maybe someone will say about the sailors is different because they're at sea, insecure. But believe me, these experts who work in various plants, I don't know if these are thermal power plants, steel in countries like Bangladesh, India, dangerous countries where they're practically like in a concentration camp, and with escorts, they drive to their hotel where they sleep, that they're in worse conditions than the sailors themselves. And what you said to keep mentioning EU standards, I have another very technical proposal to modernise and speed up, to be more efficient in bureaucracy. So when these workers specifically go on an emergency call out for a day, two, three is one certificate that's professionally called A1. So this is proof that contributions are paid in that Member State and that there is no obligation to pay contributions in other Member States. When the employer asks for this form A1 he waits for him between 7 and 15 days. In the countries of Europe it goes to normal applications, and today we have a health and pension development of this system of applications, then it would be good to solve this model so that in practically one day, because it has to bring with it that original documentation into the company that it comes to another country. And maybe in the end it's not about the law specifically, but what bothers us all, and that's what Mr. Hrelja mentioned in his previous performance about hiring a pensioner. We know that under our law there can be a contract to work on those four hours. I think we lack workers in all our activities and really find an opportunity to actively retire if nothing else is available in Istria because of the tourist season, but believe other sectors. And lastly, we are constantly talking about labour shortages, I think now is the time to think about new quotas for workers from other countries because we know that in all our activities when we listen to employers, I don't know, from our Oilman in shipbuilding, there are no welders, locksmiths, metal builders, we're not talking about employees in tourism. Mostly IDS, PGS and LRI will support both bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50998	I thank my esteemed colleague Tully Demetlik. We have one replica. Silvano Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u50999	Dear counterpart Tulio, you have touched on a very current problem throughout the EU. In fact, the problem of the outsourced workers is not quite as simple and this is the point of opposition in the EU countries because one part of the countries wants them to be paid according to standards or to the level of salary that is in the host country, so where, let's say from Croatia is sent out, and one part of the countries claims that their workers, employees of their companies, are uncompetitive if they pay the same, pay them the same pay, as the Austrian pays their workers. So there's a lot of resistance here, the union's views are against it, and we still don't have a clear view in the EU on the level of rights of sent workers. I mean, that's what it's all about. If there's anything new, probably the secretary of state will say, but I'm not aware that something new epochal has happened. And as for this second one, I'm glad that you mentioned the work of the pensioners, I've troubled it as part of the debate on the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and I'm really wondering because in 2014 we had quite a fear that the pensioners would take the jobs of young people, it didn't happen, it's a very limited number, and I don't see why even those who had to go to early retirement and are retired, they couldn't make any extra money because if the pensioners were working, according to Mr. Marić's Tax Law, they had to pay taxes and contributions and if they were working with a contract of action, they also have to pay half of the health and half of the pension contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51000	I thank Mr. Hrelja for the replica. Answer, colleague Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51001	Here's a colleague of the Hrelja, thank you for your replica. But we are in the EU and normally that competitiveness is present. Since in our country tax taxes are much higher than in other countries for such sent workers, then our employers simply cannot be competitive because when they offer on this common world market, simply our workers who do the same work as those you mentioned work for 30% less pay. And what's going on? That this worker who works for a Croatian company today, and at the construction site, I don't know about the company, I don't know about Siemens from Germany, the same job, this one has a job in a country, I'll tell India, 30% higher pay. And what's going on? That our worker quit our company in Croatia, move to Siemens and then normally it's much, much more satisfying. So that competitiveness, I think that in Croatia we have to fight right now to have our companies with our people compete with all these European or global companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51002	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague Demetlik. We move on to the next debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51003	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. The State Secretary herself said in her opening statement that this law was created as a special law on the separation of parts of the labour law and the fact is that two directives from 2008 and 2009 are being amended and that the directive of 6 October 2015 is actually being implemented and is related to the seamen. The strategic objectives of the European Parliament and of the Council are, in fact, the objectives of the employment of an integrated maritime policy in a transparent and coherent way, and that is what the European Parliament and the Council have noticed and have, in fact, adopted this Directive which must be adopted or amended through Article 2. The labour law. Of course, this must be particularly significant, because we have more than 15,000 sailors, not counting on those sailors who are on the offshore companies and their share in the revenues in the Republic of Croatia is certainly huge, some speak up to a billion kuna. It is good, the State Secretary did not stress that this law, the Labour Act and the Law on European Workers' Councils were adopted together with the social partners, which is very important and what Mr Hrelja was actually talking about. But in order not to be bound by this law, since those exhibitors before me have actually spoken about this, I think that Mr Demetlika's proposal can discuss this and that this is very important together with the Ministry of Finance and that, until the second reading, it can actually be talked about whether it can be implemented through this directive or the amendments to the Labour Act. It is also possible to implement the Labour Act and the proper application of the Labour and Labour Cooperation Institute, i.e. to replace the consent of the working councils and trade unions prescribed. The implementation of this law, the amendment of the Labour Act and of the European Workers' Councils will not affect the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ in first reading accepts this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51004	I thank Mr. Babic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51005	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The SDP representative club also supports the draft Law amending the Law on the work of P.Z.E. No. 185th and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils, P.Z.E. 187 where one part of European legislation, or EU directive, is integrated into our legislation, regulates one single policy when it comes to seamen at EU level, as we have heard in the debates so far, is very important. It is also good for the EU, given that other EU countries also have many of them, and some of them are specially expressed and fleets of seamen and people who are employed in that Croatia has the same standard as those countries, i.e. that together at EU level they perform in the markets of the world in the transport of goods. And it is especially important for our 15000 and more families who live out of it, who do, and in some ways it is their daily bread. What we would like to mention in particular, of course, is that the theme of the seamen is not the same as other employees and Mr. Demetlika mentioned one example there. The country should probably think about workers working in certain industries in areas outside the EU because I believe it is not possible to define it differently. However, this needs to be seen as regulated in the EU area, given that many of the EU countries are also competing in these markets, and probably, not likely, but certainly, have solved these topics in a certain way, that our people also have similar ones if possible and not resolved at EU level, perhaps even a better position than possibly workers from some other countries, and that should also be discussed by me until the second reading. And in this first reading absolutely here we agree with these changes and we hope that at the end of these things that have been here since 2015, so they've been through two years, maybe in the future, we'll be interpreting them into our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51006	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for this debate. We have a final word on behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51007	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a short, first of all, thanks for a constructive discussion, and I'm glad we're unanimous on these two laws. What is to say is to thank Mr. Tulio Demetlika in particular. What I have to say about these two, amending and supplementing these two laws is that the changes are targeted and directed exclusively at the EU directives and the problems of the seamen, and the crew members. They're the other ones that someone mentioned who they were. These are the crew members of the ship. In fact, Mr. Demetlika, what I think, here you have mentioned tax reliefs, the Law on Contributions, etc. There is, however, the Ministry of Finance, and I believe that in good communication, it will be an informal or formal meeting with Mr. Minister Zdravko Marić and with our resolute minister, Marko Pavić, that we can certainly communicate well about what you mentioned. Here's another thank you for the constructive debate and I'll see you tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51008	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mrs Majdi Buric, for this closing statement. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on these points when the conditions are met. With this, we've exhausted all the agenda points for today. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 a.m. with a item on the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 170. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the evening! Session adjourned at 21.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51009	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils, first reading, P.Z. No. 187. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 106 votes for, 2 abstentions and 2 votes against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51010	We now have 2 laws: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils, first reading of P.Z.E. No.187 - Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 185 Why do I read to you both, since this is a similar topic and changes to the Labour Act, and they are very much entering into this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on European Workers' Councils, so my proposal is to argue that these two laws are united, if no one objects? There isn't. Thank you. So we're going to discuss these two bill proposals. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Assembly shall apply. The debate was conducted by the parent committee and the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. He would ask the State Secretary, the respected Majda Buric, to further inform us and further explain these proposals and these two laws. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51011	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here we go again, good evening. The Labour Act, which has been in force since 7.8.2014, transposed by the law on the legal order of the Republic of Croatia in the field of labour legislation. The amendment took place on 6.10.2015, by adopting Directive 2015/1794 of the European Parliament and of the Council which amended, in addition to others, the 3 Directives which are in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, transposed by the Labour Act with a deadline for transposition into national legislation by 10.10.2017. The purpose of that Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council is to ensure, in the context of the European strategic objectives of employment as well as the integrated maritime policy, in a transparent and coherent manner, the protection of the rights of the seafarers and in the matter governing the procedures for notifying and consulting the demonstration of the collective surplus as well as the transfer of the labour contract to the new employer. During the normative procedure itself, it has been found that the general provisions of the Labour Act do not exclude a seaman, i.e. a crew member, but that they really ensure that the same level of rights, as well as other workers, is achieved in accordance with the EU Directive already mentioned in 2015/1794. In addition, the planned achievement of the general normative objective, therefore, of the implementation of that Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council itself, and of the problems identified in the implementation of the law, is an exceptional objective, with the consent of both the social partners and all other stakeholders, which is to enable the implementation and proper application of the legal provisions contained in the labour law institute, co-decision of the working council, i.e., the replacement of the consent of the working council, i.e. the trade union. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour and the Pensions Constitution proposes that the Law amending Article 2 relating to the Law on Labour amend Article 2 in conjunction with the implementation of that Directive and amending Article 151 relating to jurisdiction, in the procedure of replacing consent, in the manner in which it was governed by the Labour Act 2009 and in an appropriate manner amending other provisions which constitute a working legal institute of co-decision. I will bring all these together with the Law on European Workers' Councils, as the debate is united. In addition to the close subject matter I was just talking about, it should be said that during the normative procedure it was found that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils needed to amend Article 2 again in view of the implementation and correct implementation of the name of the directive itself, and to name the new Directives. Article 14 relating to conditions for the work of the negotiating committee and Article 31 relating to the working conditions of the European Workers' Council should also be added to ensure, most importantly, the conditions for facilitating participation in meetings of all members of the Negotiating Committee and of the European Workers' Council, as well as to the members of the seamen and to the use of modern communication channels, information and communication technologies in accordance with the requirements of EU Directive 2015/1794. The consequences resulting from the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils are the fulfilment of the international obligation of the Republic of Croatia to implement the Directive, and to ensure an adequate level of law with the employer at a transnational level, all in line with European standards. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51012	I thank the secretary of state, the respected Majda Buric for these arguments, these two united laws. We have one replica, dear colleague Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51013	Dear Vice-President, you pointed out, you mentioned a few times exactly the status of the seamen as we are, we have a lot of sailors, it is important to highlight this about these amendments to the Labour Act, it is important to point out that the Republic of Croatia is one of the Member States that did not apply the exclusion of the seamen in its legislation and in particular this specific provisions of the law concerning this amendment, which is related to the right of the workers to participate in the decision which, by showing collective surplus and labour rights in the transfer of work contracts to new employers, excludes the seafarer. the worker and the sailor identify themselves and become one. And even though the rights of the seamen are regulated by the Maritime Code and other regulations, I think our seamen have the privilege of always calling on this general provision and this general regulation to do so, so I think that's very important to stress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51014	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for this replica. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you are, the chairman of the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51015	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Labour, Pension and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 20th session of 22 September 2017 discussed the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils and the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act as a working body and in the debate following the opening presentation of the applicant explaining certain needs to introduce certain amendments to our legislation relating to the implementation of Directive 2015/1794 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 2015 in the amendments to Directive 2008/94 E.Z., 2009/38 E.Z., 2002/14 E.Z. and Council Directive 98/59 E.Z. and 2001/23 E.Z. with regard to seafarers or to the modification of certain of our normative acts and legislative acts relating to their employment or employment of employers at a transnational level. The Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions, to reach a conclusion also on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on European Workers' Councils and on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour of P.Z. Number 187 and P.Z. Number 185. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51016	I thank the chairman of the committee, Mr. Gordan Maras, for this explanation. I'm opening a debate united by both laws. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. He's not present, he's losing his right to debate and individual. On behalf of the Club of Representatives GLAS, HSU, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51017	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, okay, today it's okay that we've united this debate, it's similar to the subject but it's not exactly the same if it's possible in the second reading that it's still planned for some more appropriate time and that it's you to try both laws individually, I didn't want to object because there's no point, because we can really do this in the first reading and I don't think there's gonna be any big objections to these two bill proposals and I believe there won't be any amendments to them because they're precise, correct, targeted, so there's no big deal. Finally, sufficient indicator when the amendments and additions of the Labour Act are in line with the social partners, which means employers and trade unions, that means most of the state institutions that are interested, means that we should still approach such laws with a very high level of trust and that we should not doubt such drafts of the law. What I want to say is that now our Labour Act has been strengthened for some directives, so it is not enough for those who want to read the Labour Act as it is written, it is not enough because the framework of the Labour Act has grown significantly because the EU directive is directly embedded in the legal system. Therefore, I am pleased that the sailors, I believe, too, have fought for many years for the recognition of their rights, for the transfer of their duties, whether they worked on domestic boaters or on foreign boaters, if someone suspects that we have not been able to get into the EU, this is certainly evidence that these structures have been paid to enter and apply a common European normative arrangement or practice. Of course, here, with the consent of the social partners, the issue of replacing consent during the resignation of the union commissioner is resolved, so the replacement of consent or union or the working council by court procedure. And we have to say that he's out of the game here and that there will be no more rules on arbitration because consent will be compensated with the judicial authorities. So we don't have any special dilemmas and GLAS, HSU will support the Labour Act both in the first and second readings. As far as the European Workers' Councils are concerned, they are not novelty. So, those companies that bought some solid companies I have some experience with Schott Boral from Pula, a glass factory, former Boris Kidric. They have respected decisions even before we were in the EU to invite our members of the Workers' Council to joint meetings. At least they did it once, at least once a year. So they knew each other, that they were communicating and that it wasn't our company in Pula, it wasn't an isolated island, or that it didn't know what policy the parent company was running. Today I'm saying this 15 years ago, today it all went forward and the possibilities of communication and video conferences and all that and, in essence, it speaks of such conditions for working Councils to say this law that all employers are obliged in all their parts where they have their exposures to so call and employees to ensure the conditions for the Workers' Council, the Central Workers' Council to communicate with all the Workers' Councils in their daughters' companies. If he knew about the fate of Todorovic, I would now tell him that he must ensure it in relation to Mercator, or his daughter in Slovenia. It doesn't have to do so yet if it won't go towards Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I don't know what the fate of the entire Agrokor concert will be, so I won't run with any recommendations. However, I know that our employers will have to do this because so far I have talked about what others have been doing in relation to their exposures in Croatia. However, we now have a new growing information giant who has recently opened its doors in the city of Vodnjan, Pula, which has 40 countries with its own exposures. So he's got his employees. He will surely have to implement this law and make sure that the Workers' Council, regardless of what is not quite the case in the IT industry, is worth some other rules. But if he wants to have long-term and stability, and he hires people for a large part of the time here. But it will also have to do so in other countries, not only Europe, but the world. And I think it will have to implement this law which is also very precise in defining the obligations towards the functioning of the Workers' Councils in let's say in the firms of daughters or in the exposures of the parent company from our country or our exposures to another country of origin. Also, this law is very precise and relatively easy to understand and there is no need to complicate it much, except to say that GLAS and Croatian pensioners will also support it in the first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51018	I thank my esteemed colleague, Silvana Hrelja, for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of IDS, PGS, LRI's esteemed colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51019	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Ms. Buric's esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. As the Proposer explained, the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act amends the general provisions of the law in order to make it clear that the law is in accordance with EU directives on seamen, i.e. that the contents of the general provisions laid down in the Law on Labour indicate that this general regulation applies to seamen as well. The club IDS, PGS and the List of Rivers is certain to support this law. However, we would like to propose something more if it can be completed, but certainly not only through your ministry, but also in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. In fact, the law says "seamen" and it seems to me the rest of them. We don't know who the rest of them are, but I would suggest for these others that you try to include one group of workers that are not covered by this law and are in a subordinate position to the workers of the seamen. My colleague Bacic said that we are a maritime land and that we must be famous for that. However, we are also known for some other professions that also work out a lot, and that's what it's all about. They're sent out to the workers. It may be an unknown term for sent workers, but I will read that definition of the sent worker. It's a worker, i.e. a natural person who performs a job in another country for an employer based in the Republic of Croatia. Such workers of Croatian law discriminate against tax and social treatment in relation to me talking to the seamen again. And that's what I'm going to say is that it's also one of the reasons why young experts are leaving our homeland, and here in this High House we often talk about how to help and prevent young people from moving out, and I'm going to try to explain why. So the Croatian expert is certainly today the export potential of this country and, when sending our experts to work abroad, are these informers as mentioned by counterpart Hrelja, a large centre of Infobip who has in 40 countries of the world its offices. Are they builders, are they workers like Djuro Djakovic? Whether it's engineers, electric engineers or any other sector. We don't have any tax relief in tax and income accounting. That's why I said we needed the Ministry of Finance. So persons who spend their time working outside Croatia for more than 183 days a year should at least be treated as sailors. Namely, a crew member in international navigation who has the usual residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia, if he spends on board an international boat for 183 days and is no longer a taxpayer of income tax on non-permanent work. For other activities whose employees spend the same number of days abroad there are no reliefs. So if we want to imitate ourselves and introduce the EU directives and look up to our neighbouring countries then we will see, I will not list all these examples. But our neighbouring countries of Slovenians, Italians and I will mention Serbs, so for the employee, the pay is defined specifically in Slovenia that he makes when he works in the country and the supplement he makes while he is abroad. So, the extra part that's being realized outside is not being paid for by any contribution, and the basic part in the country is being paid on one scale from 16% to 40%. It's similar in Italy. So over 183 days. On that basis, you pay 40%, to that extra part of zero. In Serbia, they are still going to say this additionally subsidized or stimulated, so that even today many companies that are based in Croatia are thinking, it can be checked with the Croatian Employers' Association about moving their headquarters to that country to get these benefits. They even have a double minimum base and it is paid by Serbs 10 to 15% and that supplement is nothing. Now in Croatia we have our Law on Contributions and there are three possibilities for us. Therefore, the basis on which the employer accounts and pays contributions is determined by a collective contract if the employer is obliged to apply it. A second option is if the collective contract has not been adopted, the pay shall be determined by the Labour Regulation, and if the employer is not obliged to adopt a labour contract under Article 37 of the same law, and that is the maximum wage that the worker would make for the same or similar jobs in the Republic of Croatia established under those acts increased by 20%. And that's not all. So, when that sent worker leaves Croatia if he works in EU countries or European economic space, that means Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland, and in countries where the Republic of Croatia implements a social insurance contract, which is BiH, Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro and Turkey, in that case, does not pay an additional 10% for health insurance. If it goes to some other countries, then it still has to pay 10% of the additional health insurance and it pays normally to the total amount of pay. So, if we take that we have joined the EU, then we are asking the IDS to change the way you tax that salary. So in our case, salaries are subject to taxation in accordance with the Income Tax Act and regardless of whether wages are paid in the Republic of Croatia or the second part outside is paid is equal and is taxed as income from non-performing labour. What I'd like to say. I said, that's why young experts go outside, employers transfer companies to other countries, and I think that through that law and together with the Ministry of Finance, we'd be praying that this might be reflected through this first or second reading, to install it. And that means that the position of the outsourced workers and the tax on their salaries is equal to the provisions prescribed by them as well as for the seamen. That would be the simplest thing for us. Maybe someone will say about the sailors is different because they're at sea, insecure. But believe me, these experts who work in various plants, I don't know if these are thermal power plants, steel in countries like Bangladesh, India, dangerous countries where they're practically like in a concentration camp, and with escorts, they drive to their hotel where they sleep, that they're in worse conditions than the sailors themselves. And what you said to keep mentioning EU standards, I have another very technical proposal to modernise and speed up, to be more efficient in bureaucracy. So when these workers specifically go on an emergency call out for a day, two, three is one certificate that's professionally called A1. So this is proof that contributions are paid in that Member State and that there is no obligation to pay contributions in other Member States. When the employer asks for this form A1 he waits for him between 7 and 15 days. In the countries of Europe it goes to normal applications, and today we have a health and pension development of this system of applications, then it would be good to solve this model so that in practically one day, because it has to bring with it that original documentation into the company that it comes to another country. And maybe in the end it's not about the law specifically, but what bothers us all, and that's what Mr. Hrelja mentioned in his previous performance about hiring a pensioner. We know that under our law there can be a contract to work on those four hours. I think we lack workers in all our activities and really find an opportunity to actively retire if nothing else is available in Istria because of the tourist season, but believe other sectors. And lastly, we are constantly talking about labour shortages, I think now is the time to think about new quotas for workers from other countries because we know that in all our activities when we listen to employers, I don't know, from our Oilman in shipbuilding, there are no welders, locksmiths, metal builders, we're not talking about employees in tourism. Mostly IDS, PGS and LRI will support both bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51020	I thank my esteemed colleague Tully Demetlik. We have one replica. Silvano Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51021	Dear counterpart Tulio, you have touched on a very current problem throughout the EU. In fact, the problem of the outsourced workers is not quite as simple and this is the point of opposition in the EU countries because one part of the countries wants them to be paid according to standards or to the level of salary that is in the host country, so where, let's say from Croatia is sent out, and one part of the countries claims that their workers, employees of their companies, are uncompetitive if they pay the same, pay them the same pay, as the Austrian pays their workers. So there's a lot of resistance here, the union's views are against it, and we still don't have a clear view in the EU on the level of rights of sent workers. I mean, that's what it's all about. If there's anything new, probably the secretary of state will say, but I'm not aware that something new epochal has happened. And as for this second one, I'm glad that you mentioned the work of the pensioners, I've troubled it as part of the debate on the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and I'm really wondering because in 2014 we had quite a fear that the pensioners would take the jobs of young people, it didn't happen, it's a very limited number, and I don't see why even those who had to go to early retirement and are retired, they couldn't make any extra money because if the pensioners were working, according to Mr. Marić's Tax Law, they had to pay taxes and contributions and if they were working with a contract of action, they also have to pay half of the health and half of the pension contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51022	I thank Mr. Hrelja for the replica. Answer, colleague Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51023	Here's a colleague of the Hrelja, thank you for your replica. But we are in the EU and normally that competitiveness is present. Since in our country tax taxes are much higher than in other countries for such sent workers, then our employers simply cannot be competitive because when they offer on this common world market, simply our workers who do the same work as those you mentioned work for 30% less pay. And what's going on? That this worker who works for a Croatian company today, and at the construction site, I don't know about the company, I don't know about Siemens from Germany, the same job, this one has a job in a country, I'll tell India, 30% higher pay. And what's going on? That our worker quit our company in Croatia, move to Siemens and then normally it's much, much more satisfying. So that competitiveness, I think that in Croatia we have to fight right now to have our companies with our people compete with all these European or global companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51024	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague Demetlik. We move on to the next debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51025	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. The State Secretary herself said in her opening statement that this law was created as a special law on the separation of parts of the labour law and the fact is that two directives from 2008 and 2009 are being amended and that the directive of 6 October 2015 is actually being implemented and is related to the seamen. The strategic objectives of the European Parliament and of the Council are, in fact, the objectives of the employment of an integrated maritime policy in a transparent and coherent way, and that is what the European Parliament and the Council have noticed and have, in fact, adopted this Directive which must be adopted or amended through Article 2. The labour law. Of course, this must be particularly significant, because we have more than 15,000 sailors, not counting on those sailors who are on the offshore companies and their share in the revenues in the Republic of Croatia is certainly huge, some speak up to a billion kuna. It is good, the State Secretary did not stress that this law, the Labour Act and the Law on European Workers' Councils were adopted together with the social partners, which is very important and what Mr Hrelja was actually talking about. But in order not to be bound by this law, since those exhibitors before me have actually spoken about this, I think that Mr Demetlika's proposal can discuss this and that this is very important together with the Ministry of Finance and that, until the second reading, it can actually be talked about whether it can be implemented through this directive or the amendments to the Labour Act. It is also possible to implement the Labour Act and the proper application of the Labour and Labour Cooperation Institute, i.e. to replace the consent of the working councils and trade unions prescribed. The implementation of this law, the amendment of the Labour Act and of the European Workers' Councils will not affect the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ in first reading accepts this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51026	I thank Mr. Babic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The SDP representative club also supports the draft Law amending the Law on the work of P.Z.E. No. 185th and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils, P.Z.E. 187 where one part of European legislation, or EU directive, is integrated into our legislation, regulates one single policy when it comes to seamen at EU level, as we have heard in the debates so far, is very important. It is also good for the EU, given that other EU countries also have many of them, and some of them are specially expressed and fleets of seamen and people who are employed in that Croatia has the same standard as those countries, i.e. that together at EU level they perform in the markets of the world in the transport of goods. And it is especially important for our 15000 and more families who live out of it, who do, and in some ways it is their daily bread. What we would like to mention in particular, of course, is that the theme of the seamen is not the same as other employees and Mr. Demetlika mentioned one example there. The country should probably think about workers working in certain industries in areas outside the EU because I believe it is not possible to define it differently. However, this needs to be seen as regulated in the EU area, given that many of the EU countries are also competing in these markets, and probably, not likely, but certainly, have solved these topics in a certain way, that our people also have similar ones if possible and not resolved at EU level, perhaps even a better position than possibly workers from some other countries, and that should also be discussed by me until the second reading. And in this first reading absolutely here we agree with these changes and we hope that at the end of these things that have been here since 2015, so they've been through two years, maybe in the future, we'll be interpreting them into our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51028	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for this debate. We have a final word on behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51029	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a short, first of all, thanks for a constructive discussion, and I'm glad we're unanimous on these two laws. What is to say is to thank Mr. Tulio Demetlika in particular. What I have to say about these two, amending and supplementing these two laws is that the changes are targeted and directed exclusively at the EU directives and the problems of the seamen, and the crew members. They're the other ones that someone mentioned who they were. These are the crew members of the ship. In fact, Mr. Demetlika, what I think, here you have mentioned tax reliefs, the Law on Contributions, etc. There is, however, the Ministry of Finance, and I believe that in good communication, it will be an informal or formal meeting with Mr. Minister Zdravko Marić and with our resolute minister, Marko Pavić, that we can certainly communicate well about what you mentioned. Here's another thank you for the constructive debate and I'll see you tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51030	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mrs Majdi Buric, for this closing statement. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on these points when the conditions are met. With this, we've exhausted all the agenda points for today. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 a.m. with a item on the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 170. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the evening! Session adjourned at 21.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-27-0.u51031	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils, first reading, P.Z. No. 187. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 106 votes for, 2 abstentions and 2 votes against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. But before we start on the agenda, let's go check out the break requests. The first is as much as I noticed my colleague Sincic, so Lovrinović, Glasnović, Hrelja, Hajdukovic, let's take the turn.
