ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24385	The esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the council. I am opening the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, Vice-President, Vice-President and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay tribute at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland". - The performance of "Beautiful Our Homeland" – Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I invite you to give a minute of silence to the fallen Croatian defenders, all the civilian victims of the war and all the fallen ones for Croatia. - A minute of silence. - May they have eternal glory and thank you! – Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the 2nd session of the Croatian Parliament have been received at the session. Any objections to the record? Since there are no objections I find that we adopted the minutes of the 2nd session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We're moving on to the session's agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. In the final draft agenda, I included seven new points under regular numbers 2, 5 from 10 to 13 and 28. These are: Report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on held meetings of the European Council in 2016, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 74, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Data, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 71, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No 72, Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2015/757 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on the monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, reporting and verification thereof, and amending Directive 2009/16 EC, first reading, P.Z.E. No 73, Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, Proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2015. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure will be decided on an urgent, draft law for which the Proposer proposes to adopt in an emergency procedure. These are points 5, 10 and 39 from the final draft agenda. I will repeat the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with a final draft of the law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.74, a proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data with the final proposal of the law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z.BR.71 and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.66 Proposer Club of Representatives of the SDP. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24386	Well, I think we could go in a regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24387	Agent Pernar, I would ask you first to define whether or not you have an objection or not, and would you not consider that any of these laws are problematic for you to go into emergency procedures?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24388	All the laws that go into emergency procedures, I think we should go in the regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24389	If there are no other MPs who have an objection, I suggest that they vote on each of these proposals. Are you about to go into emergency procedure? I would ask the MPs to state that the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with the final draft law, P.Z.BR.74, is the first and second reading going into emergency procedure? Who's in? The vote is over. With 82 votes in favour, one abstention and 13 against that bill goes according to emergency procedure. I would ask esteemed MPs and MPs to vote on whether the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Hungary on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z.BR.71, first and second reading goes according to emergency procedure? Who's in? The vote is over. With 103 votes in favour, without abstentions and 2 against that bill, it goes according to emergency procedure. I would also ask esteemed MPs and MPs to vote on whether the draft Law amending the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school with the final draft law, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.66 goes according to emergency procedure? The vote is over. I find that with 94 votes in favour, with no abstentions and 13 against, and that bill also goes through an urgent procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 225(3). The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. On points 5 and 10, we have declared ourselves on the occasion of the emergency vote. Do any of the MPs and MPs have objections to the inclusion of points 2, 11, 12, 13 and 28 of the final draft agenda that did not include the draft agenda that you received with the call for the 3rd session? If there is no objection, I would like to confirm that these points are included in the agenda of the 3rd session. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established with this. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda in an appropriate manner. I suggest that if you agree that I do not read it in full, let me announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda. In accordance with Article 226(2), ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament and of the Council I will propose to the Rules of Procedure a supplement to the agenda of the 3rd session with four new points: 1. Proposal for a concession law, first reading, P.Z.E.BR.75, 2. Report on the Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority, 3. Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2015. Carrier of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, 4. Proposal to launch a trust issue with Pavi Barisic, Minister of Science and Education in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The promoter is 45 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make a valid decision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The rules of procedure of point 4 of the proposed amendment shall be incorporated into the agenda immediately without decision. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 3rd session? Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24391	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking you to take your seats so we can start working. So first, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2). I would like to propose a supplement to the agenda of the 3rd session with 13 new points. 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Procedure of the Case, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 77, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State aid, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 76, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 78, 1. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the seizing of property benefit by criminal act and violation, first reading, P.Z. Number 79, 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, first reading, P.Z. Number 80, 1. Proposal for a law on quality and logistics in health care, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 81, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse, first reading, P.Z. Number 82, 1. Final list of candidates for election of five members of the HRT Programme Council, 1. Proposal for a conclusion on the amendment to the Regulation on the compensation for hydrocarbon research and exploitation, 1. Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2014, 1. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia related to the announced renationalisation of INA and privatisation of 25% of less than one of the shares of HEP, 1. Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of Peđa Grbin, 1. A) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency and B) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum first. I'm determining that we have a quorum of 110 present, so we can make a right decision. If any of the MPs and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law under points 1 and 6 of the proposed supplement, this is to remind the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Procedure of the Case, the Final Proposal for the Law and the Proposal for a Law on Quality and Logistics in Health, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Dear Representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24392	Mr. President, the HDZ Club opposes the inclusion of Bill No 81, so the Proposal for a Law on Quality and Logistics in Health, with the Final Proposal of the Law, is an emergency procedure because the HDZ Club does not see any and there is almost no reason to include this law in the emergency procedure, is it absolutely not at present to solve any problems in the health system, and therefore, moreover, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, in the preparation of certain legal proposals regarding the health system where part of the proposals under this bill will be calculated. So we're opposed to emergency procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24393	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24394	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are opposed to supplementing the agenda for reasons because we have not yet solved the agenda point from the constitutional session. We currently have 70 points in 2017 we discussed 8 bill proposals. You guys fill the agenda with new points every day, so when are we gonna end it when we're doing this? Well, we're not gonna make this till Christmas. So let's first get rid of these points that we've been pulling for six or seven months, and then supplement the agenda. This just doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24395	I'll answer that right away, Comrade Bunjac, we'll have to fill in the Rules of Procedure when we get the proposal. Therefore, we cannot ignore the proposal of either your party, or any other party, or the Government if it comes. We must put it on the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, within a certain time limit, anything else would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24396	Mr. Vice-President, the Club of Representatives of the SDP has agreed that the item under regular number 6 goes into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24397	Thank you very much. So there's no objection to urgency, no objection to the urgency of the law on the validation of the university protocol, and the club agrees to go to first reading. Therefore, we believe that the proposal has been accepted as it has been formulated, noting that this proposal on quality and logistics in health care with the final proposal of the law goes to first reading. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of other points in the sitting agenda, i.e. points 2 to 5, i.e. 7 to 13 of the proposed addition? There isn't. There is! Here you go, dear representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24398	Dear Vice President, I don't know anymore, there is an emergency procedure, there is a regular procedure, to call procedure for point no. 10 Programme Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2014? We are today on 8 February 2017 and will discuss the Programme Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2014. Meanwhile, as far as I know, 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24399	Your remark is, of course, entirely justified, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports has requested this report on several occasions, it has not been sent before. Now we have it and of course we have to put it on the agenda. That's the only answer I can give you. Here you are, dear representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24400	It is also surprising that the Olympic Committee has not been discussed for the 2014 Olympic Committee. And that's how the government at the time worked that they didn't ask the Olympic Committee for a report in 2015, that it wasn't discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24401	If there are no further objections, I will ask you to adopt this proposed agenda. So these points are included in the session agenda. That's what we've established by supplementing the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24402	Now we approach the vote on points. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the third session with 16 new points. 1. Proposal for a law on employment mediation and rights during unemployment with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 86. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 92. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 90. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment Encouragement Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 91. 1. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on Support for Jobs with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 89. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, first reading, P.Z. No. 84. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 85. 1. Proposal for a Law on Comparability of Comparability of Compensation, Transfer of Payment Account and Access to Basic Account, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 83. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 93. 1. Proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation No. 517/2014. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 842/2006. First reading, P.Z.E. No. 88. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Hunting Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 87. 1. Report on the state of nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012. 1. Proposal for a Strategy and action plan for the protection of the nature of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2017 to 2025. 1. Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Advocate Arsen Bauk. 1. Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representative Branimir Bunjc. 1. Proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Fight against Peer Violence, the Proposer of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum, that we can rightly decide. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. These are points first and second proposed additions. First Proposal for a Law on Employment Intervention and Rights in the course of unemployment with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 86. Second Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 92. Article 206(1) is replaced by the following: I hereby establish that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives and advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the laws under points 3, 4 and 5 of the proposed supplement? In the absence of any comments, the proposal for an emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the third session? These are points six to sixteen submitted complements. If there are no objections these points are included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.30 A.M.]] Before we go to the polls, I would like to point out that today a prominent Croatian politician, Marko Veselica, died, who suffered persecution during the Croatian Spring because of his political engagement. He has been a representative at the Croatian Parliament since 1995-2000. Fighter for the interests of the Croatian state and Croatian people. I ask you to pay tribute to the Croatian great for a minute of silence. - A moment of silence, and praise be to him eternal glory.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24407	I am reporting as chairman of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, so it is taking too long to elect new external members. The assessment is that it is said that it will take a long time for all outside members of the working bodies of the Parliament to be elected. However, the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy is a specific working body because outsiders make up the majority and cannot start working until they are elected, and we are witnessing that there are a lot of problems that should be considered by the just national council. I appeal that on the pages of the Selection and Appointing Committee we have seen that 14 candidates have been reported for that body, part of them do not meet the conditions should be selected 6 and I ask you to ask the Committee to convene the session next week and that the National Council finally form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24408	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I see that there is an interest in the break. I would just suggest that before we approve the breaks, we just supplement the agenda, and then before the debate begins on a particular topic, we can continue. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the 1. Proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of People with intellectual difficulties. Adviser of the Health and Social Policy Committee, 1 / 1 Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2016 Carrier of the Croatian Olympic Committee, 1. Report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the European Council held on 9 March 2017 in Brussels, and on informal meetings of the European Council in Valleta, Malta, on 3 February 2017 and in Brussels on 10 March 2017. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make a valid decision. Do any of the MPs and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of these points in the agenda of the 3rd session? If there are no objections these points are included in the session agenda. The completion of the agenda has been established. I would like to inform you just for a moment that point 3 of the supplemental, so the report by the Prime Minister will be held today in the debate at 15.00 hours. Do you have anything? Here you go, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24409	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's to taking advantage of the opportunity when you're here, so let me say a few lines around the agenda. So we completed the agenda on Friday and today and that's how it goes by procedure all the time. And on Friday, the SDP Representatives Club proposed two laws. One law is no. 42 today on the dot, meaning the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, and another law on the approval of the Istanbul Convention. Both laws received unison support from all MPs in the Croatian Parliament because no one objected to enter the emergency procedure. So first and second reading, which means that we should discuss urgently, and you have put them at the end of the agenda of these new laws, among which there are many who are only in the first reading. And I'd like to ask you not to do that kind of voting then if you don't think your laws should be passed in an emergency procedure, then that's not the way they should be accepted. And if you think they should go into emergency procedure, as everyone thinks in the Croatian Parliament, then put them on the agenda adequately. And that is the wish of the SDP's Club of Representatives, namely the laws that regulate the major problems of Croatian society. One is air pollution in Slavonski Brod and the other are women's rights, i.e. the standards that our society should adopt, and I hope, by the adoption of this law, that this will be the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24410	Representative Maras, you, as Parliament's representative, know that there is a procedure before the debate begins at the plenary session. So if the law could be discussed at all, the Committee should have a minimum opinion of the parent committee in the Croatian Parliament and it would be desirable to have the Government's opinion. And that is why he is now temporarily, although voted by an emergency procedure, temporarily put to rest until these two opinions are obtained. At a time when they get, of course, because they're in an emergency procedure, they'll go into procedure faster than other laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24411	Thank you very much for your support, and here I appeal to the presidents of the Committee on Gender Equality and Economy to sort out as soon as possible so that the president can put it on the agenda. Here, Mr. Sincic and Mr. Kosor, please hear the president's request, put it on the agenda so we can discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24412	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24413	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 112. 2. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Nairobi International Convention on the Elimination of Juveniles from 2007 with the Final Proposal for Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 113. 3. Report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education in 2016 Carrier of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt an individual law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. Can we try to see again? Please press to see if we have a quorum? Here, I'm determining that there are a total of 119 of us, so we have a quorum and we can rightly decide. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act under points 1 and 2 of the proposed amendment? These are therefore the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 112. And the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Nairobi International Convention on the Elimination of Juveniles from 2007 with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 113. Dear Representative Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24414	Thank you, Vice President. The HNS and HSU Club notes the urgency of the P.Z. procedure. 112, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes. We also believe that the argument given for the Constitutional Court's ruling is that it can be in two readings because the topic is very demanding, a very extensive team more that is related to the debate that we had regarding the Law on Execution where, which first went in two readings, we believe that this law, our proposal is to go in two readings because they are independently connected, regardless of the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24415	Okay. Then we must vote on urgency. So, who's in favor of this law going by emergency procedure? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm finding 77 in, 7 abstentions and 35 against. The proposal, therefore, was largely accepted to follow the urgent procedure. Any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the inclusion of points three of the proposed amendments in the agenda of the third session? No objections? If not, then this point is included in the session agenda. And by doing so, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have been established to supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24416	Honorable MPs and MPs continue to work. I would ask if this is possible on your part to supplement the agenda first and vote on the points discussed. And if there's a possibility or a desire for a break, we'll do it after the vote. In accordance with Article 226, paragraph 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 3rd session from the 6th new points. First, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities that harm their financial interests with their final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 114. Second, the 2016 report on the work of the 2016 Presentation and Appeals Committee, the applicant of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. Third, a proposal for a decision to appoint a president and 6 members of the Civil Control Council of the Security Intelligence Agency. Proposer of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Fourth, the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of a request for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Mr Branimir Bunjc. Fifth, Report on the Management of the Pension Fund from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2015. Carrier of the Management Board of the Pension Fund. Sixth, Proposal for a Decision on discharge of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make a valid decision. If any of the representatives or advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the context of the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed supplement, this is the proposal for a law confirming the Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities that harm their financial interests with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 114? In the absence of any comments, the proposal for an emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of points 2 to 6 of the proposed addition to the agenda of the 3rd session? If there are no objections and these points are included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. Honorable MPs and MPs continue to work. I know they're interested in taking a break. All I'd ask is that the MPs be patient while we complete the agenda. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods with a Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 117. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 118. 1. Proposal for a law on the procedure of extraordinary management in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia with a final proposal for law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 116. 1. Proposal for a law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, first reading, P.Z. No. 115th Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. No. 11. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. 1. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the assistant attorney for the children. Proposer: Advocate for Children. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches of Article 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that there is a quorum and that we can rightly decide. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is the point of one proposed addition to the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods with the final draft law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 117. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under points 2 and 3 of the proposed amendment? In the absence of any comments, the proposal for an emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. Be my guest, Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24418	Thank you, Mr. President. You didn't notice I raised my hand, maybe not high enough. There is an objection to the urgency of the law procedure under regular number 2 and 3. I'm looking for a vote. [[The President's intrusion: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24419	Can you just give me a reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24420	So first of all, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of a conviction of criminal record and rehabilitation is that we believe there is no need for urgency. Also under regular number three. Proposal for a law on the procedure of extraordinary management in companies. We also believe that given the emerging situation about the company that is being passed by law and what will follow, we believe that two readings can be conducted. That's one reason. Other reasons why the bill that we're talking about, I think it's inconclusive and incomprehensible to a greater number of those he's going to refer to. And for that reason, I don't think there's any need for an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24421	I would ask esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote to see if the two drafts of the law are included in the emergency procedure. First of all, for the draft law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation with the final draft of the law. Please vote for an emergency procedure? The vote is over. I find that with most votes 78 for, without abstentions and with 20 against that bill, it is an urgent procedure. In addition, the next Proposal for a Law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, the Final Proposal of the Law, was also made that perhaps it should not be followed by an urgent procedure. I therefore ask the honourable MPs and MPs to vote on whether they are in favour of the urgent procedure of the proposed law. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 78 for, 1 abstention and 17 against that bill are also going through an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 3rd session, these are points 4, 5 and 6 of the proposed additions? If there are no objections these points are included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. If we're done with this topic, we're going to vote first on the agenda. I would pray that, I would ask my esteemed colleagues, MPs, that on this subject, since the debate on this subject is not over, it will continue after the vote, you will remain. I'd like to ask the representative of the bush if I don't give you a heads-up. So I would like to ask the esteemed MPs and MPs, it is very nice to see you in this number as Mr Maras said, I would like you to really stay as you are present after the vote, so here is a clear message for the Croatian public, stay in this place, participate in the debate and see that you have a lot to say. And now I'd like to move on to the vote. It's primarily to supplement the agenda first. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of I would like to ask the appreciation of MPs and MPs since we are supplementing the agenda with the 42nd point not to read them, you received them during the bench session. Is there a need to read? Thank you. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that first of all, the proposal to make a single law, MP Maras, is your choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24423	I apologize, Mr. President, it'll only take 30 seconds. I also prayed in my debate and now I ask you once again and I will remind you that you have promised to put the Law on the market of oil products on the agenda because of the problems of the Bosnian Ship, i.e. Slavonski Brod and our citizens in Slavonski Brod. It's been more than a month, for 40 days, the government hasn't given, the government has given an opinion, I'm sorry. Here's Mr. Kosor now I see, I haven't seen him in months here. He's the chairman of the Committee on Economy. I would ask him to call the board to put the law on the table, to finally put the law on the agenda to solve Slavonski Brod's problem. Thank you. [[Adversity President: Representative Maras!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24424	Thank you. If we're gonna talk about promises, please transcript, phonogram, whatever I promised. What I have promised all your proposals will be put into debate, unlike the previous Assembly's calls, during this assembly of laws and the draft laws of opposition are being debated. And I would ask you to consider that as one of the great democratic advances of this called by the Parliament. Representative Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24425	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, when the Parliament was established, you promised us that the session of the Parliament would be held every month. Here we are at the end of April and lasts the third session that has been going on for three and a half months. Can you explain why we don't have a regular session course like you announced, because that means first of all that MPs can't face the Prime Minister. We'd like to see each other a little more often, not for these sessions to last an entire semester. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24426	Agent Richembergh, thank you for asking, for the opportunity to answer. I don't like to talk about facing, I like to talk about opportunities, you're right in the other part. Chances will be right after the local elections. At that point he's going with a new session so you'll have a chance to hang out with the Prime Minister, or with the ministers. And as for before we go any further, let's really finish with both the addition and the vote, as for the occasion, since we have this number of points and since this assembly has doubled both the working time and the laws. For this reason, more sessions have been extended. Remember the constitutive session and pace that took place during the constitutive session that has never happened before. We've increased both the number of hours and the number of bills processed. I would beg in a certain way to respect what we've all done together. And also for the first time in the Croatian Parliament after 15 years we gave a detailed calendar of activities of the Croatian Parliament for a long period. And I really hope that we will soon come to practice that the session of the Parliament lasts for a month, and that then we have the opportunity to have a more frequent current hour. In previous Parliament meetings, and even in yours when you were in office, the assembly sessions lasted half a year. But here, I'd like to ask esteemed MPs if it's really possible that we end up with... Then get back to me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay? Representative Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24427	I'm not Hajdukovic, Mr. President. I'm Djujic. It's all right. [[The President's intrusion: Excuse me.]] Speaking of a detailed session plan, we are now supplementing the agenda with 42 new points and on the agenda since the beginning of this session we have a report on the programming, programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2014, 2015 and 2016. I'm interested in telling us exactly when we're going to discuss this because I'm interested in who's protecting the riot in Croatian sports and who's not going to discuss it and why we haven't talked about it until today. And it is a shame that we have had three years of unsettled reports for four months, and we have a catastrophic situation in Croatian sport. Here I believe that you as president will speed it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24428	Thank you for that opportunity. I would ask the MPs to refrain from further comments, I will answer that question, then I would really ask that we continue our work. As regards the 2014 report, it comes in 2015. Question of what the assembly of the Croatian Parliament was doing in 2015. Then what did the 2016 radio call do? And as far as this is concerned, we are going to speed up with the procedure and all reports that stand forward to propose to the representatives or presidents of the club MPs simply to link the reports and thus manage to reach the backlogs of the previous Assembly. Thank you. And now I'd like to ask that we really continue our work. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum, and that we can make a valid decision. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under points 1 to 11 of the proposed amendment? Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24429	Thank you, Mr. President. We have an objection to regular number 10. P.Z. No. Because we believe that, that the matter proposed by these amendments to the law should not go into emergency procedures because the number of people to be admitted for the purpose of attracting European money can be realised in another way, and we also think that the substance to be desired is, in this part of the law, an amendment and the addition of the law is too complex to go into emergency procedures, which is more so than we agree with certain amendments. And that's why we propose two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24430	Miro Šimić, MP. Oh, no? If there were no other objections then I would... Agent Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24431	I just have one quick question. Why, as President of the Parliament, you allow them to come into the process of laws like law number three, where the name of a foreign state is listed in a foreign language, as if we don't know it's called the Coast of Whiteness.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24432	Thanks for the suggestion. If there are no other objections to the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. Then I am voting for all parliamentary MPs in order to apply an emergency procedure to the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on State officials with the final proposal for a law when the law is passed? Please vote. The vote is over. Most of the votes were accepted for the proposed law to be followed by an urgent procedure. All other draft laws referred to in the urgent procedure, since there were no objections, go further by emergency procedure. I would like to stress that, on the basis of Article 125. The Rules of Procedure of a proposal to raise the issue of trust to the Prime Minister, to the individual member or to the Government as a whole shall immediately enter into the agenda without decision. This applies to point 42 of the proposed supplement. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the third session? These are points 12 to 41 of the proposed supplement. If there are no objections, these items shall be included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the addition of the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 3rd session with seven new points. 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 139, 1. Proposal for a law on international private law, first reading, P.Z. Number 141, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 140, 1. Final proposal of the Explosive Substances Act, production and transport of weapons, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 54, 1. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2016, Carrier: HAZU, 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. Number 138, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-HSU, 1. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Proposers: 79 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into clubs. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. Since we don't have a quorum then we won't decide now on the agenda but at the moment when the quorum is defined. The first item of the agenda announced last week is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive Papers and Archives. Agent Pernar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24435	Dear Mr. President, if you look at the official pages of the Croatian Parliament, this law you now propose as well as those laws that were announced for discussion later in the day did not come to the opinion of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. In view of the fact that Croatia, as you have just said, is also an extraordinary political situation, I think it is completely inappropriate to conduct a debate on these laws and to pretend like nothing is happening. For this reason, I ask you to postpone the debate on these laws until we discuss points that are priority, such as Mr Marić's recall and only after the conditions have been met in accordance with the Rules of Procedure continue to work on these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24436	Mr Grbin, the terms and conditions of the Rules of Procedure, since the debate on this point does not require the opinion of the parent committee. On the other hand, the parent board has already held one, the other will be sitting in the meantime, so that the opinion of the parent committees will be obtained during this debate. In order to reduce time and allow the law that I consider extremely important for Croatia to be discussed, I will start with the debate, and in the meantime you will get opinions, so that all conditions will be met. Representative Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24437	Thank you very much, President. So, not going into business rules at all whether the bodies talked or not, do you really think now is the time to discuss the State Archives of the past and the Committees of the Past? Do you really think in today's situation it's a top topic that interests Croatian citizens and the top topic that should be in front of us today? That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24438	Thank you. Representative Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24439	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I asked you on behalf of 79 MPs to read when you're going to put an end to your vote resolution. It's the least you should do and say exactly when and in what way you think to put the vote point. As for the government's trust, it's not questionable. No one's even asking for the government's trust. We'll see if the government has confidence the moment it proposes three ministers and an addition of ministers. At that point, we will also see it when we propose to elect a new President of the Parliament whether we have the necessary majority that is provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, until then, you must put an end to the agenda, a vote on your trust, or your resolution. Or if you won't, I'm asking on behalf of us 79, so most of the MPs to tell us when we'll discuss your trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24440	Representative Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24441	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. Mr. Bacic, you don't have a majority. Your prime minister is as prime minister as I am. Here I am prime minister. What difference does it make? Well, he doesn't have most. It doesn't matter. You must prove that you have a majority in Parliament that you do not have. [[I'd like to beg.]] And stop talking, so you'll do something, you usurp power. Today you rule the Republic of Croatia without the necessary parliamentary majority and please make it loud and clear. And another thing that is true, Mr. Petrov, we really don't need to discuss archival material right now because I believe that 99% of Croatian citizens expect us to solve this country's problems. And on the other hand, I'm asking you, since there really are 79 signatures for your shift to take a turn so that the situation can finally begin to resolve today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24442	Thank you. Representative Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24443	President-in-Office of the Parliament, so what is obvious and what we have realized is that there is no new parliamentary majority at this time. It is therefore extremely important to discuss the issue of trust with the Minister of Finance, but it is extremely important that today's session of the Parliament is not burdened with this point, the point of opening state archives. The SDP has given full authority to the SKH archives to the State Archives. So, we've given Bianca consent that the State Archives decides which part of the archive building can go out or can't. So we're completely out of sight. As we do not want to keep the HDZ lottery in this political instability and crisis in which Croatia has brought Croatia for the second time in the last year and a half, so we do not want to participate in the pre-election campaign of the Most in Parliament by discussing archives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24444	Thank you. Representative Bulj. And I'd really like you to answer him and we can keep working.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24445	Mr. President, on behalf of the club MOST, we believe that archives are a very important point and we will say why, because many of those who have brought the economic situation, many who are now calling for a good move by the newspaper Plenkovic who does not have a majority and cannot prove it are safely in these archives that managed systems through UDBA through other services. This is the truth that we must not stop and the Croatian public should be discussed about these people and it should be found out who they brought, once they gave to one man the entire economic system. They're your gentlemen in the archives. They were strong in the Alliance of Communists, and they were even stronger after 25 years So we insist that the archives be opened and let the public know the truth. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24446	Thank you. I'll just answer the questions briefly, then we can keep working. I think it'll be enough for the colleagues to share the addition of the agenda. I would ask esteemed MPs not to diminish their own importance. So, the Croatian Parliament is an advanced legislative body regardless of who is in the government. The government, if it wants to exist, should then come here to this institution and seek trust, or 76 votes. Until then, the Croatian Parliament should guarantee the stability of the state. As for the impeachment point of President-in-Office of the Parliament, the moment when he will come because the political crisis was caused at the moment when three ministers were replaced and without a debate at all in the Croatian Parliament, I believe that the government, as the first time came and requested the trust of 76 parliamentary deputies, should show that this trust exists. They will show it at the first moment, the moment when it will be voted on by Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. At that point, if the government has 76 signatures, the first next item is the resolution, i.e. the debate on the impeachment of President-in-Office. I'd like to pray, I'll just continue, the next item is the addition of the agenda, Commissioner Bačić, you've been given additional documents. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shall apply. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 3rd session with eight new points, since in the meantime it has arrived at the procedure and an additional point and I will read them once more. 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 139, 1. Proposal for a law on international private law, first reading, P.Z. Number 141, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 140, 1. Final proposal of the Explosive Substances Act, production and transport of weapons, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 54, 1. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2016, Carrier: HAZU, 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. Number 138, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-HSU, 1. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Proposers: 79 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, 1. Proposal for a discharge of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Proposer: SDP representative club. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum, and that we can make a valid decision. 1. If any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed supplement. Point 1 Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 139? We're continuing with the point of archives. The first point is Final Representative of the coat of arms. [[Bukarica raid: We have not completed the agenda.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24448	Dear Mr. Petrov, I'm going to repeat one more time what I said about an hour ago. No business assumptions have been met to discuss this. It's completely unacceptable. You can tell me that the committees have been very clear about this. Before answering the word, I once again checked the official pages of the Croatian Parliament, the official record of the Croatian Parliament, there are no reports of the home working bodies. It is totally unacceptable to discuss a single item of the agenda without having previously been shown by the parent board and afterwards the Committee on Law to assess whether any, any draft law on which we will discuss is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and with EU law. Without that, we can't take part in this debate about this wheel, and we can't take part in your soul for as long as it's pre-election or something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24449	Representative Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24450	Mr. President, I've asked you to... conditions to supplement the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we said this morning when you suggested supplementing the agenda, that when the conditions were met. The terms are now met. I'm asking you to supplement the agenda and then you can go after that. As for us at the Croatian Democratic Community Club, you did not answer for the Bureau session. I've asked you that a few times already. I ask you to answer me, me and the Croatian Democratic Community club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24451	Then we'll do it in a row. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 3rd session with 8 new points: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 139. 1. Proposal for a law on international private law, first reading, P.Z. No. 141. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 140. 1. Final draft law on explosive substances, and production and transport of weapons, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 54. 1. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2016. Carrier: Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 138. Proposer: Club of HNS and HSU Representatives. 1. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Croatian Parliament. Proposers: 79 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. 1. Proposal for a discharge of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Proposer: SDP representative club. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please re-engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum, and that we can make a valid decision. Any of the representatives and advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed supplement? This is the proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 139. In the absence of any comments, the proposal for an emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. If any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the third session. These are the points from 2 to 8 of the proposed supplement. If there are no objections, these points are also included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have thus established an addition to the agenda. We're going back to work. I'm just going to point out right now for all those who won't participate in the debate on this point, we're not going to be there tomorrow with a point on the debate of the law on, or on the trust of the Minister of Finance. Representative Bačić, please. I'd like an esteemed representative to be patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24452	I'm asking you for the fifth time today to say will the Bureau session be held or won't? Tell us clearly that we know how we will participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24453	What I can say, Mr. Bačić, I will respect, absolutely all the articles of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and therefore I will determine myself. At this point we have the most important thing after we have to do the law that I proposed a week ago, which you didn't manifest yourself at any point that it was controversial to you, the law on archives at the moment I proposed it, you didn't show that it wasn't responding to you in the debate, and that's why it's now reading. I will, regardless of what here and the representative of Bunjac warned, we are finally after six months and urging parliamentary deputies to implement the regular procedure have finally come to the opportunity to discuss both HRT and the CNB, and today this is what is being avoided. But regardless, what is the most important topic is the proposal to raise the issue of trust with Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At that moment, if there are 76 hands in the assembly benches that will be supported by the finance minister, at that point you will have a session of the presidency and my point. I'd like to ask representative Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24454	Dear Mr. Petrov, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I wasn't going to answer, but let me, although the protocol is actually not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure here, we obviously have a problem with the elemental logic here. Mr. Petrov, if 79 MPs have signed a request for a vote of confidence, and you are ignoring it, then it is simply incomprehensible that this House can continue to work. Whether the others, Minister Maric or the new president vote today or tomorrow, these points have to come to order, I am not a lawyer, I am guided by the elementary logic, let's do it first. I can't get the impression that you want to deal with this further with your coalition partner yesterday in order to spend perhaps extra hygiene, but I call on the parliamentary representatives who are here to respect the elemental logic. If the President of the Parliament still doesn't accept the vote of confidence, I suggest we leave the Parliament and let whoever thinks they should... go on like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24455	My colleague Lovrinović, I would suggest to you, given the time spent in Parliament, that you study the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution in detail, that is number one. And number two, HDZ colleagues have managed for a long time since the Manolic case occurred, have had countless opportunities so far to change anything they wanted in the Rules of Procedure. Apparently, this is how the Rules of Procedure responded to them, so I'm going to work towards that Rules of Procedure they made.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u24456	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. Both ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of this 3rd session with three new points. 1. Decision of the President of the Croatian Parliament, 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of President of the Croatian Parliament, 3. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to ask you to engage to check the quorum. I say we have a quorum, a total of 77 present. They seem to have more people in the hall, but I guess optics aren't right. But I'm determining that we have a quorum, so we can make a right decision. Do any of the MPs and MPs have objections to the proposed addition of the agenda of the 3rd session? There isn't. Thank you very much. If there are no objections these points are included in the session agenda. By doing so, ladies and gentlemen, MPs have been established on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25619	If you agree, then we will begin by asking a question to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Articles 132 to 139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line for asking questions is MP Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25620	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, respected members of the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, for asking the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Mrs. Žalac. A few days ago in the media, we had the opportunity to read about how you intend to establish a Council for the Slavonia project at the government level, with this Council, you intend to strengthen this project so that we can withdraw 2 and a half billion euros from the European Union funds, which is certainly commendable and that Slavonia deserves. But I'm asking you for assisted areas, so as Minister and your ministry, you intend to take action to pay operational attention to the assisted areas. Because, as we know without the help of the state, these assisted areas will not be able to develop evenly, and without the development of assisted areas there is no even development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25621	I thank Representative Milosevic. Minister Gabriela Zhaozac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25622	Your Honor, Your Honor, I thank you for this matter. In our Ministry of Regional Development, we plan to open up the Administration for Supported Areas as soon as the Regulation on Authorities in the Management and Control System is passed, which is practically related to the adoption of a Regulation establishing a final and systematicisation within our ministry. This will certainly give extra attention to the 264 units of local self-government belonging to the first and second groups according to the current development index, which will certainly grow to an even larger number with the new development index. I must say that half of the Republic of Croatia, half of the territory of the Republic of Croatia actually belongs to assisted areas and I believe that we should pay particular attention to these areas. What I can certainly say here is that in the Government's 2016 mandate, the 20th in Chapter VIII. concerning the even development of all parts of Croatia, we have foreseen the adoption of the Law on Supported Areas, which will also determine the sublegal acts and programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for assisted areas. What was actually not good was that within the Regional Development Act, only one chapter was assisted areas. We believe that we should single this out in a separate Law on Supported Areas and thus give it to the essential units of local, regional self-government from these parts of Croatia. I would also like to highlight here the part relating to the project Slavonia in part, as well as what we have announced we are going with a proposal to the Government to set up a Council for the Slavonia Project which will certainly be one engine, a driver at the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and monitoring the actual implementation of the project itself, which primarily generates funds from European funds, from current operational programmes but also other programmes of ministries that are related to the development of these parts. I also have to tell you that the part relating to this law that will be in the third quarter is safe in the Croatian Parliament also applies to the replacement of the law on areas of special state care which has already gone into six amendments and additions and we believe that this law will ultimately bring some sort of solution to the benefit of all citizens in rural parts of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25623	Thank you. Representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25624	Dear Minister, I thank you for your very comprehensive response. I don't think just forming a management for assisted areas is going to solve their problems, but I think it's a good step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25625	Thank you, Representative Milosevic. Representative Davor Bernardic is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25626	Dear President of the Parliament, I refer my question to the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, I demand a clear unequivocal and meaningful answer. Do you intend to keep your promise on Christmas Eve and bring the state to the purchase of INA shares from MOL which has done her a lot of damage so far? Can you guarantee that you will keep that promise today and here? Tell the Croatian public and tell us a clear plan of how you intend to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25627	Thank you. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25628	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleague Bernardić, esteemed fellow MPs and MPs. I welcome you to another current morning. Croatia has several strategic companies. I think we are all in Croatian political life, in public consent that INA is one of them. The INA story over the past 15 years has been highly complex and has brought a number of political, legal, economic, so we can say both social and problem issues and open issues. The government has been dealing with INA since the first day of its term of office. As you remember after many years we held a meeting with the INA Administration, held consultations with Croatian representatives at the Supervisory Board, with Croatian representatives of the INA Administration, with representatives of INA workers. We want to reach a broad political consensus on the purchase of MOL shares in the INA, following the judgment of the arbitration court in the framework of the Unital in Geneva. I think it's good for the Croatian economy, I think it's good for the INA, I think it's good for the energy security and supply of Croatia. When we announced it at the end of last year, we didn't say it because it was a decision made by ad hoc. It was an initial idea since the first debate within the government and a debate between the partners who make up this government. We believe that, politically, following a series of open issues that we have with the Hungarian side and MOL, this is the best solution and for interstate relations between Croatia and Hungary, Hungary, which is our neighbouring and friendly state. We believe that this is good for the Croatian economy and we think it is good for the functioning of the INA as a vertically integrated company that has also given great pain in Homeland work, which must also have gas and oil reserves in its system, which must also have refineries that function and which must have a high quality retail chain. That's why we've been thinking about a model that would be best suited to generate funds to buy these shares without creating a new public debt. Of everything we've heard in the public debate in recent weeks, I've heard no better, more efficient model without creating public debt, I haven't heard from the idea, the initial public offering 25% minus one share of HEP. I am saying this because those who know corporate governance, who know the Company Act, know that this is exactly how the Croatian State as owner, 100% owner of HEP, and with 75% plus one share retains all key rights in HEP management, without any sale of national wealth as it could often be heard in the past days. On the contrary, this would allow us to meet more corporate governance standards for this other strategic company, which is profitable today, which is quality and which could thus help buy MOL's shares in INA. It's an idea, I think we can talk about it, I think this government is open to dialogue with all the actors, that we're willing to listen to other suggestions, but from everything I've heard in both professional and political debate, this seems to us, in the name of the government at the moment, the most appropriate model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25629	Representative Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25630	Your Honor, I'm afraid there has been no public debate regarding this proposal that you made. I'm afraid that the idea you don't really want to share with the Croatian public until the end about this INA buy-in model doesn't hold water. So for the money you can get from selling a quarter of HEP you can't buy half of INA, it's clear to everyone. But if you still believe you can do this then you know something more than we do from the entire Croatian public and we can rightly suspect that there may be another secret plan of HDZ politicians and Croatian Prime Ministers with Hungarians, especially because you announced and resold INA to a new strategic partner after this sale of INA. And when you resell it to the INA, and for that money, you buy it. Sell HEP to buy INA then it has its consequences. What can and must be said that HEP is definitely not ready for sale at this time, so it will take at least two years for HEP to be ready for IPO, but HEP also has three billion kunas of capital that can be invested in the acquisitions and in the region, which can be invested in improving business and HEP does not need privatisation, HEP needs responsible and capable management. And we won't let you take over INA's back the value of HEP, and that way, if it's INA reselling because if you're reselling INA, then de facto that money from HEP with it is patching up the state budget that we warned last year that it was too high. It's too high, we left the order, it's a cutdown deficit, Croatia that's growing, and now, in this way, by selling HEP, and by reselling INA de facto, that money from HEP would go directly to the state budget. So instead of building some secret plans for the sale of HEP and for the purchase of INA I invite you to discuss it and to discuss it important [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] National issues consult the opposition. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] The first opportunity is tomorrow... /The speakers speak at the same time. /... a professional debate about INA and about Croatian energy independence and I would like someone from the government to join the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25631	Representative Bernardić, please, we must stick to the order. Representative Zeljko Lackovic, the next representative who wants to refer a question to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25632	Thank you, Mr. President. So I will refer the question to the Prime Minister, and the question is on the trail of these earlier questions, will this Croatian government also implement Hungarian policy towards INA? We will recall that Racan's government sold INA as a strategic partner to MOL who was three times smaller and with four times smaller reserves to develop INA. It was ignored both Gazprom and OMV independently... or how many million kuna differences, then we know that the impact in INA was resolved in a way that the state wanted to resolve its share over 50% in any way, so it was given to defenders and all employees to bring that share down below 50% in order to finally sign extremely harmful contracts for several million Kuna Sanader and Polancec. Later the policy continues and Prime Minister Kosor and Finance Minister Schuker who also sign secret contracts, if they sign something secret then they must answer for it because the Croatian public was not familiar with the content of these contracts and these contracts represent high treason for the Republic of Croatia. I believe that Croatian interests can only be sold but cannot be redeemed. And I'm amazed at the fact, and I'm asking you, how is it possible that, at a time when there are powerful verdicts that have been lifted by decisions of the Constitutional Court that are not actually a court, when you have a charge against Hernadia, you announce that you're going to buy the MOL stake in INA in that way as if you're sending a message to the judiciary that you don't have to do your job? And when you ask for a model then I ask you that where is the model of the functioning of the state's justice and the decision-making and judgment for all those involved in malfeasance and high treason, the priority and number one point that you have to do before you say you're going to buy something and at what cost you're going to buy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25633	Thank you, Agent Lackovic. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25634	Thank you very much. So you see this document right here, you know what this is? This is a product made at the time of the government of Kukuriku coalition by Morgan Stanley and Sberbank and Uni Credit. You know who was the subject of this IPO HEP study made two years ago? So much for the amount of time it takes to make IPO HEP. You know fellow Lackovic that in each contract there are two essential elements, one is the subject and the other is the price. In such a complex transaction as the purchase of MOL's stake in INA. This job is not negotiated through the media, this job is not negotiated to be all public and transparent, this job is negotiated with the help of the most professional, professional consultants who are specialists in this area and who will watch a thorough analysis of the value of INA today and the value of the share of Hungarian and MOL shares in INA. When this is done in parallel with the analysis of the value of HEP, which at the moment is an extremely profitable company, which also has profit, which also has the means to which the opposition leader spoke, then we can, through consultations with those experts, get to the best and financial and legal experts what you are talking about. What's important and I think it's been quite clear in the past few weeks, which is that there is a will by the Hungarian side, by MOL to sell its shares. And it's that important element and the prerequisite of all these discussions and all the decisions. Without that fact, I assure you that neither this or any other government of the Republic of Croatia would go with such strategic political decisions that we are talking about today. That's the important and the main element. I firmly believe that we can find political consensus in the country through dialogue, through debate, because of all the voices that are heard, at least when it comes to parliamentary parties very few who oppose the return of INA to Croatian hands. I didn't hear that, and I think we can all stop behind that. And this is the topic, the topic of the Croatian future, the Croatian economy on which we can and must build a consensus. The government is open to this, to dialogue with all parties and the opposition parties. About who and what role he played in the privatisation process of INA from 2003 to 2009 is a story in which there are many responsible. At least I hold my government responsible. This is the government that's here to solve problems. They will be dealt with in a transparent manner both in the spirit of agreement and with partners within the parliamentary majority and with opposition parties. And our ambition is to have two strong energy companies that are well managed according to the highest corporate standards and that will also ensure energy independence and energy supply of the Republic of Croatia and in terms of oil, and in terms of gas, heat or electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25635	Thank you, Prime Minister. Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25636	... Respect for your arguments, with all of you wanting INA to come back into Croatian hands, creates the impression that the whole operation Saving the soldiers of Ryan or returning INA to Croatian hands is actually a primary interest, it has to move with the privatisation of HEP. [[Specially enabled.]] So by my judgment, you have to rely on the Croatian judiciary, you have such harmful gas business contracts that are signed in secret, which have an entire region of bilogor and sub-level swimming pool that produces 2/3 hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia, the Podravina that produces 80% of all gas in the Republic destroyed. For 10 years, INA did not pay either MOL 3 or 5% of the ore rent while it would pay in Hungary and 60% after payment. On the other hand, this contract has created a great commitment for the Republic of Croatia. The judicial authorities in the Republic of Croatia did not deal with the case, but the international arbitration authorities did, although they should have reacted to the Croatian judicial authorities. We would very much like to have bilingual panels in Podravina with Hungarian inscriptions but also receive rent paid by MOL in Hungary 60%. This way there's not even a study for a sub-level highway, or anything you talked about in your justice, and it's exactly my end that's been cut off in such harmful gas contracts. And give between you and the solution that when you return the INA back to what was once finally cut off in its development and how you will solve the Sisak refinery issue in how much MOL or its share does not buy someone really strong who can develop all of our and production potentials and give us energy security. You won't be able to handle it this way with HEP, and those who assure you that they have no good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25637	Thank you, Agent Lackovic. Representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25638	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, and here is whenever we talk to a certain economist, then he says that bureaucracy and excessive administration of cancer is the whole situation in the economy. So on the trail, the government adopted an action plan for administrative discharge. The plan announces the establishment, so I apologize for the question to the honourable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs. Dalic. Therefore, the plan announces the establishment of companies without excessive administration, so by electronic means, without seals, without notebooks. I ask you until we can plan such a solution because our entrepreneurs, or businessmen, have been waiting for a quick service without paper for a long time, as I said without unnecessary administration. And can we expect our entrepreneurs to get all business information in one place through a unique contact point instead of wandering among institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25639	Thank you, Agent Mikulic. Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25640	Thank you very much. Well, you're right, MP Mikulić, because the issue of excessive normity, excessive administration and excessive costs that need to be done in order to meet various administrative obligations represents a significant burden for entrepreneurs and reduces the competitiveness of our economy. Because meeting excessive, pretentious and excessive obligations in many parts of our legislation causes direct costs and also wastes the time again. As a result, this action plan is a first step towards reducing administrative burdens, reducing unnecessary costs, while maintaining all standards and quality of business and the quality of meeting the social responsibility of entrepreneurs. I would therefore like to point out at the outset that 104 measures taken by this action plan do not eliminate and eliminate any standard, not a single obligation relating to public interest and business rules, but the way in which these commitments are met by this action plan wants to make it cheaper and simpler. The action therefore addresses 7 areas of which one is the insurance of the full electronic opening of companies which d.o.o. which is simple d.o.o. The action plan also includes simplifications in the field of work protection, sanitary and technical conditions, trade and liberalisation of personal services. We've assessed the financial effects of this plan using so-called. The standard cost method that is standardly applied in the countries of the European Union and based on the method used and its systematic application in these 7 areas has been assessed that the total discharge from the simplifications that this plan brings will move around a billion and a half kuna at the annual level. As regards the specific electronic business and the possibility of setting up a company by electronic means, the aim is to ensure, by the end of this year, technical and other assumptions that the company can be created fully electronic without paper, without public records, without markings and without stamps. The Law on Administrative Taxes already passed allows all administrative fees to be paid electronically without having to stick to those stamps and they are recorded, notes that are well known to us. Accordingly, the Action Plan is further developing and reviving this. I therefore expect that, in particular in the service sector, it will also be possible to electronically secure the opening and launch of the business through a single contact point at which all information will be available and through which the whole business will be able to be done. A single contact point is already in place and already operates in the Ministry of Economy, in a similar way as in other EU countries. So this year will also take a number of further steps in this direction, towards simplifying business, reducing costs, improving the business climate as you know Government's main objectives. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25641	Thank you. Representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25642	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, thank you very much. I'm pleased with this forceful and detailed answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25643	I thank Representative Mikulic. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25644	Thank you very much. It's a matter of internal affairs. Just these days, the Italian Senate ratified an agreement between Italy and Croatia on cross-border co-operation between the Croatian and Italian police. This agreement is bilateral between the two countries that have so much in common, including common problems. Last month in Rome, in the Italian Parliament, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the second treaty which is also the product of something that Croatia and Italy have in common - minorities, a contract to protect national minorities. Because when it comes to minorities, everything flows slowly. It took ten years for him to get his first results. There were several important results, for example bilingual on the ipilon, etc. But one of the results was that, in the police administrations, the word of the coastal-goran and Istrians was set up by tents in Italian. So counters for the Italian minority's needs where you could turn in Italian and get an Italian response in Italian. This was in line with Article 3 of the Treaty, which states that the rights of the Italian minority are extended where the Italian minority and the state administration live. In short, those counters are gone today. My countrymen tell me they're coming to the police department, but those counters are gone. They caused a sense of tolerance and security in my national minority, so I find it a huge failure that these counters are no longer available, and besides, they were one of the rights under which they were not allowed to go. So I'm asking, there's no Home Secretary, so I'm asking the Prime Minister why this happened?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25645	I'd like to thank Agent Radina. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25646	Thank you, colleague Radin. We will, of course, ask the Minister of the Interior to brief you in detail and in writing on this subject. But in Croatia, as you know, the basis of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities and the Law on the Personal ID of the Ministry of Interior issues all documents in the languages of members of national minorities. According to the data available to me, nearly three thousand such documents were available during 2016. What I also know is that the requirements for managing administrative procedures in the language of national minorities are almost gone, if they were to be dealt with for sure. This particular question that you said about whether there are concrete counters in the Rijeka Police Stations will be checked and we will answer you. I understand the symbolism, but in specific cases what I am known as the Prime Minister, there have been no more serious problems so far in issuing ID cards or other documents in the languages of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25647	Thank you. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25648	Yeah, no problem. You say well, Mr. Prime Minister, but this isn't about problems. It's like you also said about a particular symbolism. I also don't think it's happened since you're prime minister. I think it happened a little earlier, but we still have to deal with it to get rid of it. If there is one national minority that e.g. For the sake of bilingual card, and there are other national minorities, it is the Italian National Minority. Almost all Italians are working bilingual cards, working on this counter. It is not about whether the Italians know or do not know Croatian, I think all Italians know Croatian in Croatia. The problem is that such symbolic places show something that is very important and that is true for other national minorities when it comes to bilingualism. These counters, those bilingual streets, those bilingual names mean Italians, my dear Italians from Croatia, you're home, which is why it's written in Italian, because it's your home. So I'd like to ask Mr. Prime Minister to, along with the Home Secretary, ask him to answer me in writing. And as for the law, all laws on the rights of national minorities and constitutional law, of course, which is among other things organic law, one ratified contract in this case between Croatia and Italy on national minorities. You know that its meaning, its significance is superior to the laws, and what I told you those counters were established on the basis of that contract, so I would ask you to solve that little but big problem as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25649	Representative Veljko Kajtazi wants to ask the government a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25650	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. My representative question is precisely the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Mr. Lovri Kuštević. Dear Minister Kustevic, the government led by Prime Minister Plenkovic received the support of all representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament, including mine, and it is not questionable. The Prime Minister has given full support to the implementation of the National Strategy for Roma in co-operation with the MP of the Roma national minority. In the state budget, there is an item within your portfolio that reads a spatial arrangement of an area inhabited by Roma in the amount of 100 thousand kuna. Half of this amount was sent to the Municipality of Pribislavec in 2016, where there are very many Roma. For this reason, in cooperation with my associates, I have decided that the best amount of 100 thousand kuna is directed to the Municipality of Pribislavec. However, the amount of 50 thousand kuna from these funds was referred by the State Secretary, Ms Dunja Magash, to the information I have available in Vrpolje Municipality without Roma. My question to you, why did your portfolio in line with the government's commitment not respect the opinion of the parliamentary representative of the Roma national minority and his associates in this decision? Secondly, why did your co-workers send money to the Roma-populated municipality of Vrpolje in which there are only two Roma in the 2001 census and no Roma in the last 2011 list? Is this done with the intention to abuse money intended for the Roma community in order to satisfy other interests And who's going to answer for it? [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25651	Thank you, Agent Katazia. Minister Lovro Kuščević.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25652	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Mr. Katazi, thank you for asking. In fact, you have well concluded that at the end of the financial year 2016, there are 100 thousand kunas left to edit Roma settlements. And here it is, unfortunately, because of the intruding of the mayors and the captains who didn't report to our ministry, and yet thanks to your initiative, which I commend this way, we have come into contact with municipalities that have Roma settlements within their territory. One of these was the Municipality of Pribislavec which you recommended and where we tried to transfer these 100,000 kunas to them. Unfortunately, however, they didn't have proper documentation, so the documentation that can be covered by this program and with all the harmonisation of the documentation, we were in a lot of contact with our secretary of state, we were able to find a way to give them 50 thousand kuna anyway, so they had 50 thousand kuna to justify the funds. The second amount of 50 thousand kuna that is left we have directed to Vrpolje Municipality and here let me read about how and for whom, just for a moment, the Vrpolje Municipality and for which projects. Here's a coincidence I have that file on my e-mail, so I'll read it to you. Thank you. I have two minutes left for a chat on the phone, so Vrpolje Municipality, the program of the arrangement of the Roma settlement Perkovačka in Vrpolje is delivered among other activities of the Vrpolje Municipality, which are related to the arrangement of the Roma settlement Prekovci in Vrpolje, etc. etc. We did our best to spend these funds as well as this government and my ministry, of course, to support this programme, so we predicted the funds this year. And here's my commendation for your cooperation. I ask you to cooperate and especially to activate mayors and mayors in order to report to our competitions in time, so that we really spend all our resources in time. So these 50 grand and these 50 are actually spent in accordance with decisions and in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25653	I thank Minister Kuštević. Representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25654	I must say that I am partially satisfied with the response given and yet I stress that there are no members of the Roma national minority listed in the 2011 census in Vrpolje municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25655	Thank you, Agent Katazia. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25656	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Plenkovic, and I don't think it's too difficult for him to answer that question. On Christmas Eve you decided to buy INA, which was welcomed in public with principled support but also with respect to the experience the Croatian public has with HDZ and its negotiating teams. And a few days later, you decided to sell possible to the foreigners of HEP, a company that won a profit in 2015 of 2 billion kuna. This is how you present in the future the 5 hundred million kuna created by the company built by all Croatian citizens over the past decades. Don't answer me now please in a way that is still ours if we sell only 25% because that way I understand that you can sell both the National Park to Krk and Brijuni and the Croatian Road not in the concession, but you can sell them 25%. So that's the same thing for me. Sell HEP 25% or sell Brijuni National Park. And that's what you do. Although citizens about this model want a referendum you do not want, although citizens do not want this type of privatisation of HEP you want, although citizens do not want HDZ to privatise again the most valuable Croatian company you want, although in the campaign you did not talk about the privatisation of HEP you did not want it now you want it. Since you already have such a great desire to sell HEP, you are probably very well directed. How much is the Hungarian stake in the INA and what is 25% of the shares in HEP worth? Or as former Prime Minister Sanader said, this is another Grosse Spiele.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25657	Thank you. Representative, thank you, Agent Maras. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25658	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. Were you a member of the government when it was prepping for the IPO HEP? Do you remember maybe? I think so. I don't remember then dramatic appeals from your side that we need a referendum, that we're going to sell out a national fortune, that it's terrible, that it's terrible. So let's try to rationalise this debate, and we can only rationalise it if we reach a political agreement, I appeal to a consensus on the return of INA to Croatian hands and on a policy and model that would not create a new public debt. If your government was working on a document that I just showed with the aim of HEP's initial public offering, don't you think it would be logical for another government in the new context of political circumstances to use this study and some positive aspects of it so that an initial public offer that will generate a capital market in the Republic of Croatia, which will create a positive economic and financial atmosphere and climate if you want to interest institutional investors in energy companies and HEP is certainly an attractive energy company for institutional investors. To speak this publicly about the price of a company whose shares are listed on the stock exchanges you know and you yourself were the Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts that it is not particularly wise to do so. Therefore, I will stick to what is important, and it is important that this model that we are talking about in our conviction is the most appropriate and most prepared part thanks to and the work of your government, that we are open to discussions on other models, that we do not want to sell out national wealth, that the referendum on this topic is not necessary, we live as far as I know in representative democracy, the Croatian Parliament has powers, the Croatian Government has powers, the Constitution of Article 52 is clear, everything that concerns natural wealth closer can be regulated by laws. If there is a need for "additional fuses" we can also discuss this. I trust myself. I don't have any, any, or the smallest innuendos that could be brought down to what you're insinuating. I trust both colleagues and colleagues in this government, I trust this Croatian Parliament and you as an agent who will vote on the laws that will come here. I have confidence in Croatian institutions, I'm not afraid to make decisions, though I think we should reach a consensus on them that you have a chance to make your contribution. If you fellow Maras or SDP tomorrow on a round table find a better, more efficient, more quality, safer, more favourable financial solution why not. Give a suggestion, be quite precise here. Here's the government. It's a model that'll solve the problem. INA is in our hands, HEP with 100% ownership of the Croatian state. If you have that solution give it, I will very much listen to it, analyze it, consider it. But what I want to tell you at this point is that we want this process to be conducted in a transparent manner, that it is run in parallel and that it is guided in a broader political consensus in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25659	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25660	Thank you very much, Mr. Plenkovic. I know you believe yourself, he trusted himself and Sanader, he believed the same thing in HDZ deputies, he believed in the HDZ presidency. He got the support of the HDZ presidency and you see how it ended. When there's no transparency, when there's no debate, when we don't know how much it costs, what intentions are behind it, then it's hard to gain trust especially if you've already fallen for both Sanader and Karamark twice. Now 8 months later, you would expect absolutely everyone in Croatia to believe you and think that this will be the most transparent process and privatisation in Croatia's history. What would you do that for? Ask yourself that question. What would Croatian citizens believe you for? Just because you're a good guy from Zagreb? For what? There is no such thing as to say the elemental trust that HDZ and the HDZ government have on this, and it is good in this situation that the coalition partner is reserved according to your announcements because it guarantees that at least some debate will be held. If HDZ were alone, it would probably have already been sold and who knows what kind of consultant a la Petrovic would have done it. On that side, I'll tell you one more time we'll insist on the referendum, or I'll insist, excuse me. The party will make its decisions. I'll fight for the referendum. They want citizens to decide on this, I want there to be no sign of equality for you between Krka, Brijuni and HEP to sell 25% of HEP is the same as selling 25% of Brijuni or 25% of Krka or 25% of Kornati. And on this side Croatian citizens must have a decision ahead of them and they must make it. Don't get around this. To play Sanader, I beg you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Act responsibly. Don't think your solutions are the only possible option.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25661	Thank you, Agent Maras. Representative Maras, thank you. The next representative who wants to ask the question is Representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25662	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to address the question to Mr. Tommy Bear. Do you, or the Croatian Defence Ministry, plan to protect the health of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War after a successful, successful project of preventive systematic examinations continues in the following year and years. In fact, it is known that the problem is not only that many defenders suffer from PTSD or only in frequent suicides, so we know that since the Homeland War it reached out and raised the hand of nearly 3,000 Croatian defenders more often than that they suffer from a whole series of other diseases, including malignant ones, and that earlier they die from the rest of the population. So, those who created a free, independent, democratic Croatian state, who are heroes and the pride of our society, had to, unfortunately, to face an unwarranted feeling of marginalisation during a very long period of time, with the feeling that they are a burden to society, with unwarranted accusations that they are privileged caste with high pensions that they spend on bookies and so forth. We know what we've been listening to, and without a doubt it's the same effect on their psychophysical health, not just war casualties. Therefore, you intend to continue with a programme of preventive protection of the health of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25663	Thank you, Vice President Reiner. Minister Tomislav Bear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25664	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr. Reiner, thank you for this matter. Namely, health belongs to the first order of priorities of the Croatian Defence Ministry. According to data obtained from the survey, conducted in collaboration with the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the University of Zagreb Medical Faculty, 41.38% were hospitalized from 1998 to 2011, and the average age in hospitalisation was 43.8 years. 24249 defenders died in the death of Croatian defenders between 1998 and 2010. This data should also be provided with information on 17287 Croatian defenders who died in the period from 2010 to 2016. In 2016 alone, 3223 Croatian defenders died. So, total since '98. end of 2016 44759 Croatian defenders died. In 2016, the Croatian Defence Ministry paid special attention to the protection and preservation of the health of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. Next mentioned in 2016 we implemented a pilot project in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. Data obtained from preventive systematic examinations will enable the identification of key diseases from which Croatian defenders improve, and also direct us to regularly organise targeted preventive systematic examinations and cooperation with doctors and specialists within the healthcare system in the next period. During 2017 we start conducting systematic inspections in the area of all counties in the Republic of Croatia. The priority will be members of the fighting sector which participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia for more than 1,500 days, which is in the Republic of Croatia 32.816 on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. The funds for the implementation of this programme are secured at the position of the Croatian Defence Ministry for 2017 totalling 26 million and 202 thousand kuna. The start of the systematic examinations is expected at the end of January 2017 when we will sign all necessary contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25665	I thank Minister Bear. Vice President Reiner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25666	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Bear, I am pleased that in what you have now said you will continue to carry out preventive checks specifically pointed out that those who have long been in the fighting sector will have the advantage. I also ask that special attention be paid to the volunteers of the Homeland War. In fact, you as well as the general public know very well that unfortunately with that famous list of defenders, in fact disappeared, the officially missing category of volunteers of the Homeland War, and the volunteers of the Homeland War are exactly the people who, as the first name says, were not mobilized, every honour and all those who were later mobilized, who were also defending Croatia, but in those first days they were volunteers, who were unfortunately completely wiped out from the concept of even the list of defenders and that concept was gone. I think we need to get him back, and I'm asking you to pay particular attention to what you're planning to do to the volunteers of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25667	Thank you. Representative Mato Čičak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25668	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, respected ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We witness daily unexplainable phenomena related to companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. You too, Minister Marić, while acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, often warned about the State Audit reports regarding the business of the same. I will mention, for example, the findings of the State Audit for the People's Newspaper d.o.o. who have been given an unfavourable opinion. The unusual work contracts with even more unusual contract annexes, generous bonuses, life insurance, generous severances are just some of the benefits that many members of public business administrations have, while business results are not something they can boast. We see that the first changes proposed by the government of Mr Plenkovic have led to some public attention, so I am interested in the respected Minister Marić what do you think you are doing to make RS-owned companies more effective, and that no such incident situations occur in certain public companies that are eventually turned out to be unknown in the government? How is it possible to negotiate multimillion-dollar amounts without the owner knowing anything about it? Also in the media are speculation that a criminal procedure has been conducted against the proposed president of the Croatian lottery administration. Minister, is that correct?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25669	I'd like to thank Agent Chick. Representative Gordan Maras, Goran Maric. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25670	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed representative Čičak, the state of business owned by the Republic of Croatia, cannot be marked by black-white optics. There are also good examples, but there are also unacceptable, unfortunately both vandal and projected harmful to this by many findings of the State Audit. The criterion is clearly, business and economically sound, reasonable criteria. We had no clear responsibility, no management, no board of directors. Now these criteria are justified through members and selecting members of supervisory boards and administrations, the state sends a clear message of what it wants from companies. So far, no member of the board of directors and supervisory board has been appointed through a public tender even though it was a legal obligation. Now the criteria are different. The responsibility of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board will be unequivocal and clear. Here today is the meeting of the Supervisory Board in a company because the management and supervisory board have prepared a decision on the recapitalisation of that company without the general knowledge of the respective ministries, or owners, and let alone the request for consent. We think this kind of behavior is unacceptable. As for the contract with the board members, you asked, at this very moment these days there is an analysis at the Ministry of State Assets of all the contracts that members of the boards of commercial societies have and that first analysis shows such charm, inequality, so many inexplicable content in these contracts, various benefits, insurance. I must admit that in some contracts even using algorithmic tables wouldn't help to reach the level of pay of members of those administrations. On these terms and conditions, and on those contracts, the respective ministries and owners almost had no knowledge. Even at times, not all members of the Supervisory Board are familiar with the content of contracts held by members of the Board of Supervisors, but only the chairman of the Supervisory Board. The standardisation process is now being introduced in the process of work and decision-making. Every three months, all companies will have to submit reports on the implementation of the business plan and the report on the state and business of the company, not only in the supervisory committees but also in the relevant ministries. So far, the owner has actually been moved away from social conditions and has only been involved when difficulties arise to such circumstances that it cannot be without the owner further and when it needs help. I think that standardisation in a technical sense will help these societies to be more efficient, more competitive and that we will succeed in removing the mantra so that the state cannot be a good owner because the state is a very good owner in regulated Western countries and such qualifications and prejudices of apriorism neither in a market-based European country does exist. There's private property sacred, but it's no more sacred than state property. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] And we will do everything to make private property sacred in Croatia but not more sacred than state property. [[The incursion president: Thank you Minister.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25671	Thank you. Representative Chichak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25672	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your answer. It is clear from everything that so far there have been insufficient concerns about the business of public enterprises from a quality aspect and that quantitative features such as how many party officials can be placed in this or that company? For example, we had an ex-Croatian lottery that included former members of the SDP's main board and former SDP's europarliamentary. No wonder there are a number of shift attacks in that public enterprise. When we see that there are extremely strong interests in retaining syncour and that the company is managed not by who knows who the job is, but by who's more in the party hierarchy by some of the former ruling coalition's parties. It is no secret that the Croatian lottery served the SDP and the National Journal of the HNS to accommodate their responsible members until some of them even met the prescribed conditions. I am optimistic, Minister Marić, when I hear your announcements about the introduction of standardisation in the way public enterprises are handled and managed, delivery of quarterly reports, insight into everything that happens in companies in a way that manages them with the attention of a good owner and not evil stepmothers. This is what Croatia needs now, and I am sure that the way it manages in public enterprises will change significantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25673	Thank you, Agent Chick. Representative Sabina Vosovac wants to refer a question to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25674	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, you will agree with me that all Croatian citizens must meet their agreed obligations in due time, regardless of the teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors, nurses, social workers, cultural workers, pensioners, employees, unemployed for all the same rights. What I'm interested in is why do you think the same rights of enforcement of contractual obligations should not apply to the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Why I ask you this, a year and a half has passed more precisely since January 2016 that all conditions for increasing the base of pay for public sector employees have been met. On January 26th, the agreement expires in a matter of days. The government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of its Karamarkova, has continued to ignore it completely, I will not say the demands of the public service union but the commitments made, the commitments taken by the Government of Ivo Sanader and the commitments made by the Government of Jadranka Kosor. My question to you is, are you aware of the consequences of the RS budget but also of the standard of public service employees if you continue to ignore their demands? And until when do you actually intend to ignore the demands of teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors, nurses, social workers, cultural employees in their demands to just pay them what they belong to? How long do you intend to humiliate them in such a way that they have to pray for them to meet their contractual obligations?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25675	Thank you very much. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25676	Thank you very much, Vice President Reiner. Dear colleagues, this government appointed its representatives to the Economic and Social Council in the first session of its duties, we believe that social dialogue is one of the most important aspects of the government's work in terms of inclusiveness, in terms of consultation and trade unions and employers. We had very little time until the end of last calendar year, but during that period we managed to make a few important and important steps, in my deep conviction. I'll just list some. We increased the minimum wage more than the Kukuriku government cumulatively from 2012 to 2015. We paid the Christmas bonus without budget rebalancing, we reached an agreement with the Government's government's unions on a unilateral decision to put unions and public service employees in the same position as those in the state services with an increase in wages of 2% of January 1st this year. The dialogue we led with the unions, co-ordinated by the Minister of Labour and Pension System, Coric, is one of our priority, fundamental goals and we will continue with the Public Service Trade Unions. We have a lot of respect for everyone who works in health care, for everyone who works in science, who works in education, education. So we also offered a solution that, in our opinion, was an excellent, correct gesture towards the public service unions. At this stage, we have not reached an agreement, and yesterday I spoke to one of the leaders of those trade unions, we will continue this dialogue, we will continue this conversation, we will seek a solution that will be fiscally sustainable and that will seek to reach that agreement that is realistic at this point. There are a lot of issues, and that's what we talked about at the beginning of the current morning that welcomed this government. And this is one of those. We deal with it transparently, openly with listening to signals coming from union representatives. I believe that this dialogue will ultimately lead to a compromise and a solution that will be quality and good and that will avoid, among other things, some announced court proceedings. This is the goal that we are pursuing, this is the task that as our head negotiator has our minister of labour and pension system and we will persist and I believe we will come up with a solution that will satisfy a number of public sector employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25677	Thank you. Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25678	Mr. Prime Minister, things are pretty clear. You don't want to. He's got money in his budget. 20 days ago we adopted in this Croatian Parliament the budget, you boasted, the revenue side, optimism, perspective. However, in this perspective you do not see teachers, teachers, health care workers, social care employees, or culture as one of your priorities, and you need to speak out loud and plainly. Because it'll just be verbalizing what you're doing. You're going to put the state in a position where these people who carry the system, especially when I think about employees in schools who do an extremely responsible job, who are responsible for our future, are actually looking for justice in court. They've already announced the initiation of the lawsuit and you're aware of how the legal system in the state works here has no exceptions. They'll definitely get those lawsuits, and that'll cost the Republic of Croatia 5 billion kuna because you decided to do it. It'll cost her more than you've fulfilled your obligations to those people. And I'm just going to remind you of the HDZ programme, on page 18 of the HDZ programme with which you went to the elections beautifully says that one of the promises you promise to repair the teacher's material and social status and better working conditions and higher salaries for teachers and teachers. You failed your first test. Indeed, it is trustworthy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25679	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25680	I would like to thank the well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I've got a question for the Minister of Culture, Nina Oblisen Koržinek. Dear Ministers and in political, programming documents, but also in your performances, you have repeatedly highlighted the importance of two pillars of culture, culture as a national cultural identity, the need to preserve national, cultural identity in European integrations, but you have also highlighted the contribution that culture can and should have for the Croatian economy. Several times, it has been underlined that the EU funds intend to finance a large part of the programmes leading towards achieving these two objectives and that the funds will also be used to realise the necessary and necessary cultural infrastructure as well as to realise those programmes that will allow greater participation of citizens in particular young people, not only in major Croatian urban centres, but also throughout the Republic of Croatia, especially in those parts that have suffered major damage and human and material damage during the Homeland War period. I'm interested in a respected minister to specifically respond to what steps are being taken in this direction in order to realise these goals that you have set several times already?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25681	The Honorable Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25682	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, dear colleague Mesic, as you said yourself, we are actually observing government activities at two levels. As you know, a very high-quality meeting was held with all Croatian mayors in December, the entire government and mayors, and the meeting was agreed and discussed among other things how to improve co-ordination in the planning of cultural development. So we will establish a much better planning system compared to the counties, cities and municipalities, and in order to encourage all those at local level to better prepare projects to finance primarily from the European Structural Funds in order to restore and protect cultural heritage. Perhaps we should mention here last week in Vukovar we marked the end of a major project of the Vukovar-Vučedo-Ilock heritage restoration where it is shown, ten years of the project, how investment in cultural infrastructure can create preconditions for more uniform cultural development, for valorizing cultural heritage and putting into function in the first order of tourism development. The project was launched during the government in 2006, has been successfully continued in all subsequent governments, and will continue in this government through a project to develop the Archaeological Park in the Vucedol area that will continue to enrich the cultural offer. But that's only one part of it, so one part of where culture is placed as a function of economic development, the creation of new jobs not only directly in culture but also in all those activities that culture monitors. On the other hand, however, the second priority is equally important even cultural development in terms of the availability of culture to all citizens. And we are particularly looking at sensitive categories, so especially young people, and in this sense, a tender from the European Social Fund is now being launched where 18 million kunas are provided for funding cultural activities and participation in cultural life for young people with special emphasis on border areas, in areas where cultural life is lacking. And it is also planned by the end of the year to call a public call also from the European Social Fund for Citizens 54 Plus. In parallel with this and in the budget of the Ministry of Culture for this year we have opened a special entry to encourage participation in culture where we will spend somewhere before summer the first pilot project to see what activities are needed in Croatian cities and municipalities to be supported by the Ministry of Culture, and so that all citizens can participate in cultural life.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25683	Dear Representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25684	Dear Minister, I thank you for your reply. I think it is also necessary to continue to insist on such concrete measures, to point out in some ways, perhaps not enough known fact in Croatian society that culture can contribute practically up to 5% of GDP in certain countries, that this is the goal that can be achieved precisely by these programmes that you have now stated in your concrete response. And finally, by involving citizens over 54 years old or young artists, the creation and development and preservation of, of course, national cultural identity that should be ours and some thought of leadership in the decades to come. I am particularly pleased that you mentioned that you are bringing to an end the large project Ilock-Vukovar-Vučedol, which cost hundreds of millions of kunas, where the Republic of Croatia's special protection service has contributed greatly to the relativization of both Vukovar and Croatia's Podunavlje and to the return of that cultural glow that the generations of Croatian citizens have created throughout the centuries. And finally, I am sure that this project of the Vucedol Archaeological Park, which you have announced, will contribute to tourism development, and therefore also to economic recovery, is about a fascinating archaeological culture that is now being spread across 12 countries of Europe, and that we have its starting point, its foundation here in the Croatian Podunavlje so that this project will certainly get its international valorisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25685	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25686	Thank you very much. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished members of the government. I ask my question to the Minister of Health, Mr Milan Kujundzic. Mr Kujundzic is my obligation as a representative from Slavonia and Baranja to ask you how we will solve the problem with KB Osijek in view of the long-standing problem of the only hospital that treats a large part of the residents of Osijek-Baranja County, but also of the entire Eastern Croatia. As minister two weeks ago, you visited the Institute of ophthalmology of the Osijek Hospital, which has millions of damages after the storms that hit Slavonia and Baranja. And also last year in June the damage was from a heavy storm somewhere around five million kunas in the Gynecology of Osijek Hospital. I ask you, Mr. Minister, since the Osijek Hospital has succeeded thanks to your ministry, thanks to your predecessor, and also to the announcements of former Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Mr. Tolusic, that some of the funds from the EU's 30 million kuna energy reconstruction funds for emergency medical aid and 50 million kuna for the new Department of Surgery of Osijek, however, the old deroute buildings that have been present for more than 130 years have been able to pay off these modern health solutions and appliances, if we have suffered damage here two weeks ago from these very modern appliances, so the Osijek Hospital had to cancel 15 operations that day, so I'm interested in Mr. Ministers how the Ministry of Health, but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans to solve the burning problem of KB Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25687	Thank you. Dear Minister Milan Kujundzic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25688	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow Salapic, thank you very much for your inquiry. Unfortunately, not only in Osijek, but because of the longevity of the Croatian hospitals and equipment in them, we have had the last months of several serious haematarias including these two in Osijek, they were in Split and Rijeka, which were rapidly rescheduled as this last one that happened in Osijek. The truth is that the building where the ophthalmology Institute is located is about 120 years old and such haiaries can be expected. I and this occasion use to commend the staff of the entire KBC Osijek and the Institute of ophthalmology for the rapid shift and protection of equipment on the one hand and more importantly for the organisation that there is no delay in watching operations because it continued operations in other operating halls primarily on the island. And for some of the operations that I can't do right now, the operations in Zagreb are agreed. It is also important to touch the issue that sometimes raises the question of how much it makes sense to invest in buildings that have been exhausted, but with respect to Osijek, what will be done with the united emergency reception, the daily hospital and the addition of surgery is something that is absolutely justified for which the funds are prepared and which will soon start performing as in other hospitals throughout Croatia. And what remains of the message to us today for all living Croats is to try to think long-term how to build new hospitals especially in certain environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25689	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25690	Thank you very much, Minister. I expected your answer this way. I call on you and the President of the Croatian Government, but also Minister Žalac, since so far the hospitals have not used funds from the Energy Reconstruction Funds and also what happened in Osijek, and this is a warning for all of us who live there because of the very conditions of work in Osijek hospital have left us so far in the short time of 30 top doctors who in the EU countries, which in other cities outside of eastern Croatia. Well, then if we don't secure the working conditions for the doctors, but the patients and the citizens who live there, we're gonna have a big problem. I share that concern with you, and I hope that soon we will all succeed together and the Croatian Government will solve this burning problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25691	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by a respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25692	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of State Property, a very respected colleague, Maric. Dear Ministers, not only as a parliamentary representative but as a scientist, you have built your career on a very reasoned criticism of the privatisation that was conducted in the Republic of Croatia. You were particularly active in this regard last year somewhere in May, I think everyone will remember your statements that for certain decisions of the then government taken at the phone session not only to raise their hands, but to order the Government to remove its hands from Podravka. Now, why am I asking you this? As a parliamentary representative and as a scientist, you kept talking about the privatisations that took place in the Republic of Croatia and the activities of the Government, but today you are the Minister of State Property, today you are in charge of managing state property, today you are in charge of privatisation. And now, at the moment in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps the largest individual case of privatisation in the past 25 years has not heard or heard a voice from you resolute minister. Well, now that you're not responding to journalist's questions, when you're not responding to requests asked under the Law on Access to Information, then I believe that you'll answer me as a parliamentary representative at the current morning to an extremely simple question, and the question for you, dear ministers, is: Do you support the privatisation of HEP for nationalisation of INA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25693	Thank you. The respected Minister Goran Maric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25694	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed representative of the coat of arms first had a small correction, it was the case of Končar when the shares of Končar were sold at a telephone session then I said here that I would never raise my hand for such a way of selling because of the speed and methodology and because it could achieve a significantly higher price and benefit for the Republic of Croatia. As far as INA and HEP are concerned, I must first tell you that INA has always been an economic giant and business subject of strategic importance. Such economic centres of power require competence, expertise and responsibility, responsibility to the company first, responsibility to the workers, responsibility to everyone in the business system and ultimately responsibility to the state. Unfortunately, in INA and INA, juvenile individuals and groups performed exercises of projected damage. And as a consequence, INA has been traumatized not only since 2003 but also significantly more than 25 years. Economic legality, fundamental postulates even reason, business standards have become undesirable when it comes to INA for a long time. But that's not surprising when 13 years ago all management rights and the decision-making process were given to a shareholder who had only 25% plus 1 share at the time. If this adds to the policies of the same and the same even individuals or groups that retain 30% in another strategic society but deny the rights of any decision and influence on the decision-making process in the company then we are talking about the absence of different criteria. The government of the Republic of Croatia has been moving away from the INA. This government did not give up on INA, did not give up on the INA, and that was unequivocally confirmed by the Prime Minister. And the Prime Minister should not be translated from Croatian to Croatian. And my political position on INA is well known, my view of the need and necessity of the reoccupancy of INA shares is also known as HEP. Always all decisions in HEP and HEP and all decision-making processes should be in the hands of the state and the state must always make decisions on its own and on its own. But I support the inclusion of HEP and other business entities in the process of reoccurring INA. But I must warn you as Minister of State Property, which also includes a number of companies and those listed on the stock exchange, on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, that we must worry about several important details – about the information we give to shareholders. On privileged information, on the provision of privileged information, as well as on persons addressed. Any comment I make on this could be misleading to the investment community and all information relating to the capital markets is exclusively on the HANFA regulatory body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25695	Thank you. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25696	Dear Mr. Minister, my question was clear that it couldn't have been clearer. And the question was: do you support the privatisation of HEP for nationalisation of INA? Since it was a proposal tabled by the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister sitting next to him, you could and should have answered that question only with yes or no. You still gave me back one litany on the wrong way to manage INA. However, from your avoidance of a clear answer, I will draw the conclusion that you obviously intend to implement the Prime Minister's decision, that you obviously intend to do whatever it takes to privatise HEP, a strategic company owned by the Republic of Croatia and that you are obviously doing something that you would judge as a minister. And an example is the May 2016 decision you attacked. It wasn't just a decision to privatise Koncar's respected counterpart, Maric. It was a decision removing the status of strategic companies both to ACI and Croatia Airlines and Podravci. It took the government then three months to make that decision at the phone session. From here on out of this room, you've brought fire to that decision that neither of us would be ashamed of. This government is here now, and you've been sitting in it for three months, but that wasn't enough for you, that decision you spit on your colleague Maric, spit out, which you said was disastrously fixed. Now that speaks of how credible you are and how credibility all of you are together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25697	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25698	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honorable Prime Minister and Minister in the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Krstic. In recent years, the defence budget has been reduced by nearly 1.4 billion kuna, while at the same time before our Armed Forces, Croatia's military year-on-year demands are being raised. Of course, the decline of the standard of life of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers is too clear, and we cannot even talk about quality training, modernization and equipment of the Armed Forces under such conditions. In the past, unfortunately, the Armed Forces have spoken in the context of the burden of society, the need for its reduction, the reduction of defence funds, and we have reached the lowest possible levels. The victorious Croatian army has not earned it, and as a state we must take care of our safety, we must take care of the protection of our borders, the protection of our sea and airspace. So we must no longer allow Croatia to hang a sword over its head. We all know where we were in '91. years and what we've been through. From the lesson and guidance set out in this, we need to take care of them. As a responsible government, you have increased the defence budget for this year that we discussed in December in this House of Commons. We are aware that therefore our Armed Forces must respond to new trends and security challenges, develop new abilities and contribute to collective security. But in the context of their ability to help with floods, fires, search and rescue. We've had opportunities for respected ministers to hear your statements that in 2017, in the focus of the defence system, they'll be exactly man, soldier, officer and officer, his standard, Better living conditions in the barracks. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] In view of this, we ask you to introduce us to your plans and suggestions that you will take in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25699	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Damir Krsticevic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25700	Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Honorable Representative, thank you very much for your question. As you know, this government, Plenkovic's government, after years of cutting the defence budget of almost a billion and 400 million kuna in the last eight years, has stopped the collapse of the defence budget. We have an increase, we have an increase of 8%. That's about 350 million kuna. That's still far away, the current budget is 1.23 gross social product. That is far from the recommended 2% we have committed to NATO. As we see the security situation in our environment coming together, we have new threats and new risks, therefore as a responsible government, as a responsible state, we must take care of our own safety. For me, for us to invest in defense, investing in security is not a cost, it is an investment, because as you said this year in 2017 we want to be a year of soldiers, soldiers, officers and officers in armed forces. We want better conditions for our soldiers in our barracks, we want to focus on the man. It is man who makes a difference both in the Homeland War and today and what is most important we want to restore dignity to the Croatian soldier. These years, a lot of Croatian soldiers have been taken from him, taken from him overtime, taken from him a field supplement, taken from him a command supplement, and even that diet someone has made a diet that is different that a soldier has one diet, an officer of another, an officer of the third, so that since 1.1 we have introduced one meal for one meal that is equal to that in the Homeland War, and so it should be done today that the soldier is ready to perform the task. Another very important thing, it's the development of abilities that are also very important, we want to develop the new abilities that we need to deal with these threats. The third very important thing is the operational schedule of our army. I don't know why in the last few years the army has gone from some space to which it invested from Varazdin, Sinj, Sibenik has gone to worse conditions, and now it's our job to analyze because there's no point in a man from Varazdin leaving for Petrinja, from Imotski to go to Knin or Benkovac or a lot of Slavs to be in Knin, let's set up this operational schedule a little bit that he's in the function of carrying out his assignment, we're going with the army to Vukovar. You know that it is in the function that these Slavons are closer, and on the other hand it is in the function of our security, and that is also a concrete contribution to our Vukovar economic development. What is lastly very important is our budget, apart from security, we want to direct it to the Croatian military industry. Here I am now 30. I will sign a contract worth more than 250 million kunas with Croatian companies in support of the Croatian product to be in our armed forces but to support our industry as a whole. All in all, the Croatian army is a brand, the Croatian army will carry out all its tasks set before it. And what is most important to us in everything in the function of monitoring the overall situation and I say once again, Croatia is a safe country and what is most important NATO is our obligation and I say that Croatia will never endanger again. Thank you all for supporting the larger budget of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25701	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25702	Thank you, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense. I'm very pleased with your answer. I see that you are applying a complete strategy of restoring and strengthening the armed forces, not only to improve the living conditions of Croatian soldiers but also to renewing the technique, so what has been ignored in the past period. And what you mentioned yourself through the task force schedule, I am very pleased that one of the Croatian troops will be found in our city's hero city of Vukovar. And also giving names to certain halls in the Ministry of Defence, and as far as I hear all the military in Croatia by the names of war heroes, the people who led us in the Homeland War, from War Minister Gojko Šushko via General Janko Bobetka, Zvonimira Crvenka hero Blaga Zadre, are the guarantee that we will also return pride and dignity to the Croatian soldier and will develop our armed forces on the basis of the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25703	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25704	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. With an action plan to disburse the economy, you plan to save a billion and a half kuna from protecting the work of a billion and 200 million, so 80% of the total amount. Looking at your action plan, you can see that he's high and that a lot of those things you're thinking about saving and those millions you're thinking about saving are really not real and they're not the ones who should be answering the truth. But what you will save, you will save on the health of the workers. There are no savings and there will be none, and I can say that this plan is contrary to EU policy. While today the EU's policy is aimed at strengthening the protection of workers' health and safety at work, you as a person who strongly advocates pro-European policy in Croatia are implementing the opposite. Instead of hitting other segments of unnecessary administration, the government decided to take a scalpel to a system that deals with people, their health and safety, and directly and safely to the citizens because you lower health and sanitary standards. Mr. Prime Minister, please give the Croatian workers a clear and public answer whether this government will insist on austerity measures that directly pose a risk to the health and safety of workers at the workplace and will you, if you insist on the proposed policy of savings on workers in Croatia, be personally responsible for increasing deaths, injuries to the work and permanent damage to workers' health due to the reduction of labour protection for most workers in the Republic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25705	Thank you. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25706	Thank you very much. Comrade Mrssic, don't be so dramatic... mortality at work due to measures aimed at dissipating the Croatian economy. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We have said that the government's priority after the tax reform has been passed, following the new Public Procurement Act will be further concrete measures that will facilitate business freedom and entrepreneurship of all those bold people who engage in business ventures. That is why this plan that we adopted in the Government, which has 104 measures and which should bring savings of 1.5 billion kuna, comes upon a very high-quality and well-percepted and well understood clear definition of the government by those who face numerous charges each day and for whom they rarely see no concrete benefit. You noticed and in the debate over the past few weeks, and you noticed that the key principle of protection at work was the principle of proportionality, the principle of proportionality. I think you'll agree that it's not the same to worry about the protection of the work, for example in the construction sector or in some society, some company, some institution where the job is related to offices. On that side, it is through this principle that goes for quality and further savings. When it comes to hygiene standards, public health standards, all we're talking about in this plan is in accordance with international standards. There is no backward step that would in any way put these measures at risk of food safety or any other way of safety of public health in Croatia. Therefore, these measures are on the trail of EU policy that has been on track for years, but indeed has been in place for years by former Bavarian Prime Minister Seehofer, who is just about to remove numerous and administrative barriers and types of burdens that exist at EU level and are not useful for entrepreneurs and are not necessary for real life. Therefore, this action plan is one document on which the commission we have set up will be included in the dialogue and work of the commission and representatives of the unions. I think they should make their contribution and clearly articulate if they see certain aspects that might be problematic. I think you're going to assume that none of the people who are in government or in any corridor who have all worked out of their own corner on this document would have the aim of in any way jeopardising the public health or safety of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25707	Thank you. Dear Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25708	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, in your response, there is not one word that carries a million and a half thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is a worker. In your answer, you haven't looked back on the workers in any way. And when you talk about the principle of proportionality being something that led you, then I'd like to point out that you're reducing the possibility of systematic examinations of people who work in noise. And that means like this. That every year they go for a checkup and prevent them from deafening or being deaf. Is that savings or not? I should like to tell you, Minister Coric and Minister Dalic, who, in his interview alone, boasts that you would like to be Margaret Thatcher of Croatia, obviously do not care about the health of workers. Look up to international companies in Croatia that raise our labour protection standards to an even higher level and have even greater plans than our Labour Act requires. If the EU encourages strengthening the protection of workers at work and you respect our workers, mention them in your speech and allow them decent working conditions as do workers in other EU members. But so far, the government's policy confirms that profits are above health and that you think Croatian workers deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25709	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrsic, I don't doubt that this demonstration of yours drew the media's attention which was your goal, but I would ask that we avoid such things anyway. Next time, somebody's gonna play their favorite song, like, play it or something. It's not at home level. Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by a prominent representative of Ines Strenja-Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25710	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, is therefore today the top theme of the INA, but I will ask my minister, our Minister Slaven Dobrović, a question from another domain, and that is: Am I interested in seeing that the waste management plan has been adopted which steps are you planning to take further? So it is not in anyone's interest to continue to have the situation that we have today in Dubrovnik that closed down its dump in Grabovica and is now likely to not classify the waste in 440 kilometers away from the municipality of Gunja, which was not long ago flooded. What kind of expenses are these? So someone in Dubrovnik, someone in Dubrovnik who had a sewerage before many cities in Europe didn't remember to take out old paper before that, and today we have a factory in Osijek that imports old paper, didn't remember to produce compost for our olive groves, didn't remember to remove plastic and metal and dangerous waste such as asbestos and batteries. So this is the situation in many cities throughout Croatia. A waste management plan has been adopted and I'm interested in what are your further steps to implement this plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25711	The Honorable Minister Slaven Dobrovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25712	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the honourable MPs and MPs. Dear Representatives Strenja Linic thank you very much for asking. So, yes, we brought in a waste management plan for the period 2017/2022. So it's a document that provides guidance for the development of waste management. He was very important because it was a prerequisite for developing all the activities we had already started. However, you know that without funding practically many activities stand still, so we are now in a position to go fuller. So with many activities in the field of building a modern waste management system. The modern system today, since we are part of Europe, means building a circular society. So they're not modern units for processing mixed municipal waste, they're modern concepts that build up, so all of the elements of the system by respecting hierarchy. Therefore, we are now in a position to go very quickly with the programme of education of citizens and all other participants, so we are able to go with the programmes of waste prevention measures, so we are able to go, so to visit all units of local self-government, and also regional self-government where we will agree with them final facilities and positions, since we now have a well-established system dimensional with 70 units of recycling that make up the backbone, so these are varieties and composts that will be deployed throughout Croatia and that will allow for the achievement of high recycling targets. So I thank you for asking. Very soon the public will be familiar with our actions, since we will have to communicate, so in many ways both with units and with citizens. Mostly activity is a lot. We want available funds, so through the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion in this segment is 475m euros. Therefore, in addition to the responsibility to practically engage those funds to the maximum extent possible, there is a responsibility as they are engaged. So we don't want to build a system that will then burden citizens, not achieve goals, but exactly the opposite. So, with a very small participation of the domestic economy, as was the case so far, rather than exactly building a system that will be consistent with the new concept, i.e. the circular economy, which is the sorting area, it is a separate collection, raising the awareness of citizens that I think is unjustly underestimating and that those environments where the recycling rate is low are in fact due to a poorly organised system rather than poor awareness or low willingness of citizens to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25713	Thank you. Dear representative of Ines Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25714	Thank you, Mr. Dobrovic. I hope that you will use all the money that is available to us as you have said and implemented. But I would actually remind you that we also have a bright example, which is waste management on the island of Krk, which is already more than 50% higher, meaning from the European average, and we are actually given that percentage of waste outage by 2020. So I hope we finally have the political will to implement this waste management plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25715	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25716	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Honored Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Ministers and Ministers, Honored counterparts and colleagues. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Health, Professor. You're a coward. You have already said before you became Minister of Health that the highest value of the Croatian healthcare system is doctors, nurses and other health workers. There are a number of health institutions dealing with the treatment of children in the Republic of Croatia, the largest number of which has been stationed in the city of Zagreb. However, two hospitals are owned by the city – the Srebrenica Children's Hospital and the Psychiatric Hospital for Children and Youth. It is the only psychiatric hospital for children and youth in the Republic of Croatia and unfortunately the level of protection in the area of children's adolescent psychiatry in the Republic of Croatia is not exactly enviable. But what's the biggest problem, so it's a children's disease clinic in the city of Zagreb. Her location is such that often parents come with children, leave a car that then takes a spider. At the 11th month, you were with the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, at the opening of the Intensive Care Department in Klaic. I am interested, therefore it is announced at which stage is the implementation of the project of building a national children's hospital, whether the location, capacity of the hospital and other details for creating a quality project task. Is there a possibility of agreeing with the local self-government unit, with the city of Zagreb at least as to the location and whether there is a defined way of funding since there are EU funds available for the construction of a national children's hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25717	Thank you. Dear Minister Milan Kujundzic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25718	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Dr. Celic. Thanks for asking. I think it is the strategic plan of this government, and what the prime minister recognized in the first few days and said loudly that a child hospital in Zagreb was passing through amongst our many needs in the health system. In fact, children are being treated now, I am talking about hospital conditions in several locations that have averaged the conditions infrequently modest and the decision is that what this government's obligation is to make a single children's hospital in Zagreb, not only to raise comforts and conditions for the treatment of children and their parents while they are with them to stay, but also because of the need for one place to gather staff and diagnostic and therapeutic tools that are necessary in this regard. And I have spoken with the prime minister several times with other members of the government but also with a number of people in Croatia, in this, no one hesitates that this should be a priority. The locations were considered, the ideal would be a conditional location for a university hospital in Blato, which, of course, crosses the need for a children's hospital because the assessment for a children's hospital should be about 50-academic thousands of square meters, but will be analysed with the city of Zagreb and of course with the Croatian government and with you all here where I believe that no one will be against, for other things we can politically have different opinions, but I believe that when it comes to a unique child hospital there will be no opposite opinions. So consider the existing location and part of the construction of rough cities in the site in Blato where there are certain thermal sources or several other locations in Zagreb that are potentially coming, which would now be said hastily. With regard to financial resources, this is a well-opened inquiry, there are significant resources that could be taken from the eu funds, of course it will not be enough in itself, but I think that what I said by accident not planning this inquiry, that some things simply a living generation now will have to take over our obligation and find the means to make one such hospital. And I believe in what we are now preparing so that we can be ready with the projects by the end of the year, and then depending on which location we start working next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25719	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25720	I thank the Minister for his reply. I believe that your determination, as well as your availability by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, will indeed contribute to the fact that sometimes it seems to me that the idea of reforms related to health and health policy as well as you have mentioned, so health policies should have an extra-party dimension, and I believe that we will all agree together and a national consensus that the real construction of a national children's hospital is a priority in improving health care standards for the most vulnerable part of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25721	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. This question refers to something we have already had the opportunity to discuss in this respected home. And what's this about? So even at the time when the prime minister spoke about the government's programme, and beyond that, we had the opportunity to hear that there would be a reform regardless of the corny word, and regarding how the ministry would function, where the state secretary would be appointed and the directors of individual administrations. We are witnessing that the secretary of state was appointed and what we had the opportunity to say about what we were talking about, that there will certainly be two to three State Secretarys, and that is done. However, we are still witnessing that ministerial assistants are appointed at the cabinet meeting, which I have to admit in part and understand because you have to be operational, administrations must have a head of the people to be appointed. However, it has been announced, a lot has been discussed in this distinguished House that it will be directors of the administration, that it will be a public tender and that we will soon get the law to which it will be defined. I looked at the websites a little bit, and I didn't see that the law was in preparation, so I was wondering if it gave up, if it would remain as it had been before, so we'd have two levels of state officials State Secretary and Assistants, or if it might have been released for some other time, even though it was said here that it would be immediately? I understand that it was not possible at the time when the ministers were appointed, or when the law was being amended, but I think the time has come if it is so that we really do so because we will have assistants and we will have a certain problem that will also be felt on the budget of our country, so I ask the Prime Minister to answer in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25723	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25724	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Mrak Taritash, it is true that we have discussed this, but we have made it clear after two years of government work. Why am I saying that? So now you're like me in Lisinski the other day. We said this very clearly, it was an agreement between the MOST and HDZ, we want the professionalisation of the state administration, we want the management level of ministerial assistants to be people who come there in public competition, who can also be employees of that ministry who can also be potential employees outside the state administration system, but with qualifications, that is what is most important and most important. On the other hand, you can see that we are very rational in the number of state secretaries, the criteria that I said at the time, and you see it in the system of all ministries is the criterion of functionality. There's not a single secretary of state who doesn't have a single ministry's specific jurisdiction in his portfolio, no ministry will have more than three, let them have two, some have only one at the moment. I think we're showing responsibility on that side. And as far as the new law is concerned, it is part of the activity done by the Minister of Administration and the Deputy Prime Minister in the context of a public administration reform action plan which, as you well know, will make a number of reforms in many aspects of the quality of public administration functioning at the central level, either at the level of units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, there is no giving up, for the normal functioning of the ministries you need the level of assistants or directors regardless of what they are called, when the matter is consolidated and when we are ready, we would do so on purpose in the middle of the mandate to bring in people with professional references and then I believe that this system would clearly divide political levels, so ministers and state secretaries would circle through me and stabilise the work of the state administration and strengthen the institutions of the Croatian state. That's the point, and that's the point, and we're not going to step down on that goal, and that's how we agreed and manifested ourselves. We never said it would be right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25725	Thank you. Honorable representative of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it is absolutely clear in the response the prime minister gave the following: we now have assistants who are officials and then in the middle of the mandate we will have an amendment and an addition to the law where we will have directors. Officials, assistants leave together when the ministers leave, and the directors stay, they are employees and stay on. So a very interesting model that we have already seen and which has proved to be not very efficient but let's wait until the middle of the mandate and see what's really going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25727	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Vlatko Kopic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25728	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected members of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I refer my question to Ministers of Science and Education Professor Barisic. The Programme for the Development of the Professional Education and Training System for the period from 2016 to 2020 as well as the associated Action Plan adopted at the end of 2016 provides for the development of new professional curricula based on standards of occupation and qualifications. The basic emphasis is put on the flexibility of school curricula which will be able to respond to the real needs of the labour market and the changes and innovation required by individual sectors. I'm interested in what the Ministry of Science and Education plans to undertake in terms of modernising vocational education and more effective integration of vocational education with the labour market?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25729	Thank you. The respected minister, Pavo Barisic, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25730	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, distinguished and respected representative Dr. Kopic, thank you very much for your question. I would start with the state of vocational education in the Republic of Croatia as the most represented under secondary education. We have in the Republic of Croatia over 70%, somewhere 71% of secondary education related to vocational education. I stress that the European average, or the EU average, is around 49% somewhere. So in our system, vocational education is very much represented and it is very important but we must certainly start from that it is quite outdated and that, in particular, current curriculas within vocational education are quite outdated, that they need to be modernised and innovative and, in that sense, the adoption of this programme and action plan at the end of the year is a good starting point, a good guess from which we will start and to which we will upgrade several basic measures. I'd like to mention five key ones here. The right is that we will try to improve the model of learning in jobs. One attempt to introduce a combined dual model model model for successful neighbouring Central European countries that have developed this and have very successful economies I will single out only Austria, Germany, Switzerland that have offered us their models and with which we will together, this year at least one or two schools as a project pilot, start exactly that model. The second measure is particularly important to promote vocational education as the first choice and to raise the attractiveness of vocational education. So from these figures that I have cited, we do not lack the representation of vocational education. What is missing is that students opt for it as a first choice and there is a very important aspect within this programme. The third is to improve the system of professional improvement of teachers who will implement these programmes. The fourth is improving and ensuring the quality of vocational education. And the fifth measure that is particularly important is to increase the mobility and employability of students who are in vocational education. There I would also add another figure that is that within the EU, the employability of students who graduate from vocational education is about 70% and in the Republic of Croatia is about 48% which needs to be raised. I would like to add that by adopting this programme and the action plan, we have removed the suspension from the withdrawal of funds from two European funds, the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund of 85m euros and 63m euros. So a total of 148m euros is available with funding from the state budget to implement these measures, so a total of 1 billion 110m and we will work together with other ministries, especially the Ministry of Tourism and others to develop professional education in certain areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25731	Thank you. Dear Representative Vlatko Kopić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25732	Here's my thanks to Mr. Minister for everything said here, and I'm happy with the further answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25733	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Ana-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25734	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I in front of the HSS Club has a question for the president of the Croatian government, Mr. Plenkovic, and the question is who in the government decides to sell national property and does there have any unity about it? Namely, I will refer to the statement by our President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Petrov, which he gave yesterday on Croatian Radio, which you did not deny as prime minister. And the statement says he's trying to push the initiative to sell forests and water. Since the most responsible people from the HDZ are sitting in the Croatian government as well as the Most High Government, and you are as prime minister responsible for the Croatian government, I ask if this statement is true. Because if the President of the Croatian Parliament says something like that, then surely such a statement has its weight. And then the initiative to sell forests and water could only come from the HDZ ranks. So I ask you unequivocally to say whether such an initiative or idea came from any member of your government, because I believe that you as the most responsible person in the state know everything about the plans of your ministers and that certainly none of them would work behind your back. If you clearly guarantee that there is nothing to be afraid of and that you will not sell out Croatian natural resources and Croatian resources, then this is about a re-spin that wants to bring unrest, and a particular party to portray itself as the only moral vertical and protector of national interests. We know that the Croatian Peasant Party has always opposed the sale of companies of strategic national importance as well as special water and forest, and we have also advocated the ban on selling agricultural land to foreigners on a certain deadline. And since INA sold now plans to privatise HEP. Are the Croatian Parliament President's statements correct, so now it's time and the sale of Croatian waters and forests or those are just the flat-rate statements of your coalition partner. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25735	Thank you very much. The Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25736	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Petin, you are the representative of the Croatian Peasant Party, the sister party of the Croatian Democratic Union. I congratulate you on your selection of new leadership this weekend. I believe that in time, you will surely restore your belonging to the ideas of the political family in which we participate together. On your question and reference to the statements of the President of the Croatian Parliament, I suggest you ask him specifically for this clarification. What I can tell you is the very clear attitude we've been talking about all morning. So I believe that there is a broad political consensus of all actors on our stage who want INA back in Croatian hands. I think it is a step that we all agree on, and we especially agree on MOST and the Croatian Democratic Community as the main partners in this government, and here we have a full consensus. When it comes to the model of how to get the funds to buy MOL's stake in INA without a public debt, I repeat another model of HEP's initial public offering from the analysis available to me and a number of expert opinions on this subject have never seen a more efficient and realistic model to implement. So what we want is a full control of both companies. So both INA and HEP from the Croatian state to the border that guarantees us both management rights and other aspects that the owner can have in some society, which is strategic societies in the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 52 is quite clear on how natural resources are protected and why they are under special protection and constitutional category. In addition, paragraph 2 of that article states that all these topics can be regulated by law. That's what I stand for. I think the founder deliberately predicted it and in some way delegated the powers of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, once again, I will underline there is no reason why you as HSS, a party that takes care of the Croatian village, Croatian agriculture, agricultural land, do not participate in the dialogue. I am convinced that with the Minister of Agriculture you will make a great contribution to the upcoming debate on the new Agricultural Land Act, which will be a reference for the Croatian village and part of our project Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25737	Thank you. Honorable representative of Anna-Marie Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25738	I thank you for your congratulations on my new function. Well, I'm glad we agree on the sale, that is, the non-sales of the catch forests and the catchwaters. Of course, as a party, we will make our contribution to the new Agricultural Land Act. I only ask you, such statements by the President of the Croatian Parliament, so your coalition partner has a certain weight to say. I ask you to fence around such things in the future because they bring unrest and simply give the wrong picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25739	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25740	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Mrs. Žalac. In fact, you are probably aware that many cities and municipalities have the need to build social infrastructure facilities, the need to build nursing homes. Of course, we look forward to building kindergartens, new schools, as well as firehouses, hospices. We also know that from European funds so far it is possible to build such facilities only in settlements of up to 5,000 inhabitants, which provides for a rural development programme. All others are not covered and cannot be financed from such funds. For example, my city, the city of Vodice, has a great need to build a nursing home. We also have sweet concerns with the accommodation of children in kindergarten, so we have made all the project documentation for the construction of a new kindergarten, but it is not possible at the moment. Surely there are even greater needs in those areas where there are frequent evictions, where we are witnessing that we have fewer and fewer residents. My question to you what does the ministry do when we can expect such facilities in these settlements to be financed by European means?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25741	The Honorable Minister Gabriela Žalac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25742	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, respected MPs Martinchev. Here, if you'll excuse me for a moment, that's the problem you're having with the operational programme's competitiveness of cohesion. What you asked, my information from the field that I've been visiting all the districts I've visited so far, is the cities that you've asked. It is the financing of just building or building school facilities and school sports halls, as well as kindergartens that can currently be financed by colleagues Tolusic in the rural development programme but only 5,000 inhabitants. And also to the hospice, unfortunately in programming, we absolutely did not include this kind of funding option in the operational programme. It is a major failure that we will certainly correct with changes to the operational programme that we will start in cooperation with all resolutions in this year, so with all ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and also according to information on projects that we have almost and prepared documentation on the ground. What I want to say is that we will redefine what we have right and without changing the operational programme into projects that are finished and ready with documentation versus those that are not done that can wait quite a while for 2020. As for the amendment of the operational programme, we will certainly have these talks in cooperation with the European Commission next week. What I would just like to point out is that regardless of this problem that you've highlighted here, we have to say that here's how the current funding is, we've certainly released energy recovery in cooperation with the Ministry of Construction a competition concerning schools and the restoration of public buildings owned by local self-government units. And as for healthcare, I mean primary health care and emergency medical care, that's something we'll be negotiating by the end of February 623 million kuna from the Operational Programme Competitiveness of Cohesion, but it is for the daily hospitals and surgery in agreement with Minister Kujundzic. However, here is social care also deinstitutionalisation, but the homes for the old and powerless at this point cannot, for this reason we will surely change the operational programme to ensure that by 2020 we meet the requirements that we have from the ground at the end and finance from the Operational Programme the competitiveness of cohesion, to spend as little resources from the state budget as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25743	Thank you. Dear representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25744	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the answer because it is really acceptable for European funds to exist, we are quite called to use them on the one hand, and on the other hand we have projects that have all the necessary documentation but because of the failure that in 2014 and 2015 is not well negotiated because it has simply forgotten about settlements and such facilities that we are not yet able to finance it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25745	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25746	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Today's question will be referred to the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Butkovic. The Honorable Ministers of the Croatian Parliament made a decision seven months ago and gave a state guarantee for the loan of Croatian Water to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which means that HAC was unable to meet its financial obligations, and that the state was guaranteed these commitments so that there would be no unsettling obligation to carry out the budget provided a new EUR 250m loan for the settlement of the commitments made and for the restructuring of HAC&SONS. I do not think that this partial borrowing for the settlement of the commitments is in any way a long term good for the liquidity of any society, and the problems of HAC liquidity and the highways of Rijeka-Zagreb and Croatian roads are a huge burden both for these societies, but surely one potential threat to the stability of our state budget and we cannot even partially solve such important problems. We know that Milanovic's government in the previous session went to monetize Croatian highways, but because of the high public pressure it gave up, it separated HAC's HAC&SONS company, which today is dealing with difficulties and losses, and you announced in the past government that you will fully address this problem of restructuring companies in the road sector and financial problem, and that you are conducting intensive negotiations with international credit institutions. So my question would be, how are the negotiations with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on road restructuring? How much is the total debt of the entire sector, how much has the debt reached in this year 2017 on payment and, of course, how do we plan to settle it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25747	Thank you. The respected Minister Oleg Butkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25748	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, Mr. Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. You said a lot in your question, that's one big problem. In this particular year 2017, 2018, 2019, most of the debt in the toll sector comes to us. The total debt is 5.2 billion euros, the total debt of the entire cesarean sector, is only the principal of the debt, and in 2017 comes at a charge of 1 billion, about 1 billion and 100 million euros when we include the principal and the interest that comes to us in 2017. State of debt by society, I will briefly tell you the amount in Croatian roads, the state of duty on 31.12.2016 is 9 billion and 809 million 189 thousand and 34 kuna. In the Croatian highways, the status of duty on 31.12.2016 is 23 billion 271 million 942 thousand and 320 kuna and in the Rijeka-Zagreb highway on 31.12.2016. the debt is 877 I apologize 6 billion 598 million and 733 thousand 167 kuna. Following a failed attempt to monetise or give in the concession of Croatian highways, including the Rijeka-Zagreb Highway and after a failed attempt to privatise what the citizens said at a referendum on what they think about it, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has gone to a full solution to this problem and the aim is to restructure the existing debt of all these companies in order to optimise the share of the existing debt that the sector can serve from its own sources, gradually reduce the level of annual debt in a way to limit the impact on the public finances sector and reduce the scope in which the future or existing debt of these companies was guaranteed by the state. It's so-called. the use of which you have also spoken or activated state guarantees. By the end of this month, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be referred a letter of sectoral policy containing the main areas of restructuring of the entire meaning of business and financial restructuring of the entire road infrastructure sector as well as the necessary activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with all those companies, should be implemented in order to implement this restructuring and to implement it. After the adoption of the sector policy letter, negotiations with the World Bank on a loan contract are on the move, and the whole package should be completed sometime from June this year. These days, a contract will also be signed with a financial adviser tasked with developing a funding and reprogramming strategy of huge debt, he will examine the needs of the capital market and give recommendations and guidelines to the Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Resoring Ministry of the Sea, transport, infrastructure in which the ratio is refinanced and debt bonds and propose a solution to what part of the debt should be and could be reprogrammed for longer periods and at more favourable interest rates. I would also like to point out that negotiations are under way with the main competition administration of the European Commission and in order to confirm by the European Commission that the restructuring process does not contain elements of state aid. At the last meeting just allow, held in... which has been positive we expect both written response and support from the European Commission in this whole and complex process. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25749	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25750	Thank you very much, Minister, for your response, and I am pleased that the Government has access to the entire model of solving this problem in a functional and financial sense. But I think that you are aware of how much this problem raises public interest, so I suggest that when you have a draft but, above all, we call on all stakeholders, experts, trade unions, interested public, and we discuss this problem and make one point that will certainly give one good direction towards a final solution and that will certainly be a good basis for government and parliament decisions and for you to further negotiate and conclude a contract with potential investors. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25751	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25752	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is for the Deputy Prime Minister of the Administration of Mr Kovacic. To date, we have over 180 agencies, institutes and funds and other forms of legal entities with public authority and which spend billions of kuna annually and the employment of tens of thousands of people. The problem is that there is no clearly defined criterion for the establishment of these agencies as well as for the identification of their jobs, and thus we also come to the conclusion that the coefficient of the complexity of the business for the account of their salaries is not uniform with the public and state administration bodies. To make the problem worse and worse, it is these agencies that are self-determining and bringing various parafiscal burdens for both entrepreneurs and citizens. So my question is do you intend to do something about this very problematic situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25753	Thank you. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister Ivan Kovacic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, that the rationalisation of the agency's system is one of the measures of the public administration reform action plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the 12th month of last year and the public administration strategy for the period 2015-2020. A year. With the development of this measure to reduce the number... of the agency in the Republic of Croatia whether it is a shut-down of a particular agency, whether it is a merger of two or more agencies or that it is a merger of a particular agency with the central authorities of the state administration in fact with the resolution ministry. All this will be done safely in cooperation and coordination with the restoring ministries, taking care of, of course, EU directives from pre-accession negotiations. Of course, these directives from pre-accession negotiations have been negotiated to manipulate them for a little while over the last few years, so that when certain agencies were set up, they were invited to EU directives, even though the instructions on the need to set up these agencies were not real. As far as the work of the Ministry of Administration itself is concerned, the Ministry of Administration is preparing a unique and complete and systematic Act on Agencyes. In fact, which will provide clear criteria for setting up new agencies to give criteria precisely and for the work of existing agencies for their managing bodies, for responsibility, for monitoring their work, for employee status and their salaries, etc. By adopting such a law, the single Agency Act would prevent the unfounded establishment of new agencies in the Republic of Croatia. It would be introduced into the work of existing agencies, and I think that this could also regulate the system and create preconditions for reducing the number the public expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25755	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25756	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Prime Minister, last time I asked you when you'd be relieved of your post as Minister of plagiarism. You stood in his defense despite evidence and the fact that he himself confessed to plagiarizing a few days before my question. Meanwhile, the Committee on Ethics in Science also found his guilt. Croatian voice scientist Ivan Djikic sent a statement with documents suggesting an expanded practice of plagiarisation and unethical actions he found in Mr Barisic's scientific work. All the documents were sent to you in person a few days ago, and to the President of the Parliament, Mr Petrov. The public also has a chance to study Mr. Djikić's views, which in 9 points explained very closely what you do not want to see. Since the minister doesn't have enough honesty to resign, will you resolve him? In fact, when are you going to get rid of him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25757	Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25758	Thank you very much, Vice President, thank you, Reverend Tomic. Did you read the review article of Minister Barisic... any variant, any of the published versions in any journal domestic or international. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I don't know if it is, but I suggest you read it. I studied this article in detail, studied the methodology of writing this article, saw how much footnote exists in that original text published in the magazine in 2008. When a person writes a scientific article, he usually puts into footnote arguments that explain one of his thesis or cites the sources and the thesis of other authors about a particular problem. That's the point of footnote. All other footnotes have reference to the source of individual thoughts and individual ideas except for one in that article which the minister, then a scientist, author, and today a scientist and author have noticed before anyone in any instance initiated any process of verifying or verifying the alleged quoting of any other author and without stating the source. This article was then published in several international magazines with correct and correct quotations or references to the source. The minister gave very clear explanations on this. I think that despite the fact that there is an obvious opposition in the public to one part of the academic community with another part of scientists in the academic community, the issue of one small reference in one footnote today has been raised to the level of human, scientific, political, moral integrity of Professor Pave Barisic. I know him. I trusted him to be a member of this government. He has experience in the work of the ministry he deals with, he has important tasks to carry out. It is about a resort that is important for the Croatian future, for our competitiveness, for our children, for new generations. What he's been doing for the past three months, working hard, working hard, working with his heart, wants to contribute to Croatia after a number of other jobs he's done in his life. I wouldn't want one of those little ones to want to know whether she's a printer or some other mistake to do personal harm to him, to contribute to the destabilising and functioning of the government. As far as I'm concerned, he won't, and I'm telling you very clearly and very responsiblely because I know him. I watched him in various European engagements where he enjoys respect, the trust of many colleagues. I think this problem is completely overcharged. I don't want to get into the motives and interests of political parties, they can understand. As far as people in the academic community are concerned, they can understand that, but if a number of committees at both the University of Split and the University of Zagreb have decided and clearly decided on the subject. I don't see why for years after the publication of that first version of the article, we would have such a big debate on a subject that I believe is too exposed in public and that doesn't deserve this much time, not this much time, not this much energy to deal with. I expect Minister Barisic to deal with priority topics, which is an educational reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25759	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25760	This topic deserves the attention of the Croatian public for several reasons. The first thing you've stopped is a reform of education thinking that education is as perfect as it is, and I can see from these words why you think it's perfect, because your copy paste method in schools is acceptable. You asked me if I read the text, but it's better if you read the documents Mr. Djikic sent you, obviously you didn't. Because if you'd read those documents, those nine things would have stabbed you in the eye at least one of those nine facts. Here's one thing I'm going to tell you, the work written in 2007 pointed to irregularities, the press error as you say is a quote later from 2008. I mean, that's really amazing. But I will finish this topic with one question asked by Professor Djikic. How will you feel or any of your parents when they ask their child during Sunday lunch, how was school this week? Okay, I wrote two essays, it was easy to get five. What did you write about? I don't know, we use Wikipedia copy paste at school, and I don't get to study the subject at all because we copy fast. Is this the method we want for Croatian children? According to HDZ, it's obvious that because of you, and history has shown the right of less educated citizens because they are mostly your voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25761	Thank you very much. You're my friend Tomic, I hope you're aware that what you just said has offended tens and tens of thousands of people. I hope you're aware of that. But let's move on to questions. The next question is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25763	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Gar Capelli. In the pre-election economic programme of the HDZ, one of the points of the economic programme was the implementation of the so-called CRO cards. After the HDZ election victory, the CRO card project was included in the Croatian government's economic programme in the tourism segment. Several goals have been outlined through the development of this project, and some of them are improving the tourist offer mainly on the continent, extending the tourist season on the coast and coast, reducing the imbalances of tourism traffic in the Republic of Croatia 98% of tourism traffic is taking place on the coast, and only 2% on the continent, 50% on the city of Zagreb, and this remains on the rest of the continent. One of the goals was to allow travel and use vacations for a large number of Croatian citizens who do not go on vacation. I must remind myself that around two million Croatian citizens do not benefit from the benefits of travel and holidays for very notorious reasons, which are financial reasons. The very evolution of this project, which is in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour or our prominent consulting companies in tourism, has shown the exceptional potential of products, in many segments, for example in financial, economic, social, demographic and security. Mr. Minister, I wonder if the Ministry of Tourism is taking action on the very implementation of this project in the legal financial economic system because, because of the complexity of the project, the deadline that the ministry has set for it, which is the beginning of 2018, is a challenging deadline? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25764	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Gary Cappelli will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25765	Honorable Vice President, honourable parliamentary deputies and MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Kleman. Well, the question is well asked in terms of whether we will be able to prepare during 2017, so of course in this direction and Ministry of Tourism, but I say there is not only the Ministry of Tourism that has to make certain preparations, but together with a few ministries. The only thing that matters most is the Ministry of Finance and other ministries because this card is not only a project that is important for the Ministry of Tourism but it is also superior because this project is important for demographic, social and economic development in the Republic of Croatia. As you are well and he said is important especially for the continental part of the tourism that is accomplishing at this point only maybe 2% on average in that Croatian cake if we can tell the tourist, which is here somewhere in the first nine months reached 9.5 billion euros in income. This means three months practically before the end of the tourist year in the 11th and 12th months Croatian tourism records about 30% increase in the meaning of the 11th and 12th months, which is the first time in Croatian tourism history that these figures are. These are signals that the tourist product has become important and that there is a tourist year, not only tourist season, and that the Croatian tourist product has become highly competitive and important beyond that peak of the tourist season and that we are practically able to reach Croatia's tourism development strategy by 2020 at around 14.2 billion euros. In order to achieve this, one of the important projects will be exactly the CRO card for which we are preparing to boost safe traffic on the continent between 8 and 10%, which would certainly be around 60%, and not only on the continent, but we speak both outside the tourist season and in the tourist resorts on the coast, so it would certainly start the economy, and in a few years it would be around 10 to 12 thousand new jobs. So this is a comprehensive and very precise preparation that is under way because one project that is horizontal is therefore requiring more influence from several ministries that will certainly be completed by the end of this year and bring in some way an extension of the tourist season that I have said, records excellent data both in the 11th and 12th months. So the point is to strengthen tourism traffic on the continent and all that it can bring and of course that the important and demographic vision that we have on the continent, which is as little emigration of young people as possible and the possibility of additional employment. We also expect benefit in the agricultural section, which is in the OPGs especially on the continent, which will certainly be revived by strengthening tourism traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25766	Thank you. Honorable representative Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25767	Here, Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your answer. Here I would like to just once again encourage you and your colleagues in the government to exploit the potential of the government, to exploit the potential of all ministries that should be interested in the implementation and development of this valuable and significant project in the economic sense of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in tourism. So I invite you to really in some way press your colleagues to carry out this year's preparations for the implementation to start really in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25768	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25769	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I would like to focus on an extremely important economic issue and it concerns the company CIMOS. I would like to remind you that this company was founded or launched Mr Goran Maric, Minister of Property [[And the question is to whom?]] Although it's a matter in principle for the entire government. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] So the CIMOS plant was launched in the 70s, so we're talking about one company that has a tradition of almost half a century, it's located in Buzet, Roč today and Labin, working for the auto industry, so it's about the production of sophisticated parts of the automotive industry. That's when it started with the TPS group Peugeot, Citroen and Renault. After the acquisition of this TPS in Labin in 2000, this production or market also spread to Volkswagen, Audi or BMW when we talk about the production of car parts, especially brakes. Then we all know together that there is tolerance at fault 0 that you need an extremely professional and qualified workforce. The company today employs 1036 employees in Croatia, so in Istria plants Buzet, Roč and Labin it is directly employed, we still have about 300 co-operatives. The company that has an annual income of more than 412 million kuna, 100% export-oriented, the company that provides HEP with income from electricity sales somewhere around 82 million kunas, i.e. 52 million kunas, and I apologize to domestic co-operatives about 82. So my question is, although it could be addressed to the entire government, Mr. Maric has been involved from the beginning in the interest at which stage the process of taking over CIMOS, which the government plans to do in order to ensure a smooth continuation of production and preservation of jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25770	Thank you. The respected Minister Goran Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25771	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Miletic, I confirm that I have insight into the history of this topic. Unfortunately, this case has been going on for years, it dates back to 1994 and has been completely abandoned on the Croatian side for 16 years. In fact, let's just remind a little bit of history so that we can understand the subject better. This came from the CIMOS debt of Koper 20m euros based on a loan to Rijeka Bank, when the Rijeka Bank bankrupted the State Agency for Rehabilitation, for the insurance of harmful roles and recovery of banks took over those claims and in agreement with CIMOS they formed an agreement to establish a joint venture in Buzet CIMOS Croatia to bring Croatia 20m kuna into core capital. And this was done by the Croatian side, however, the Slovenian side did not enter the properties it needed and 26% of the CIMOS International Koper shares that were introduced immediately and returned. So by 2015, the Slovenian side has not fulfilled any of its obligations under the agreement for 16 years. The truth is that neither Croatia has taken any active action to fulfil the obligations of the Slovenian party. This only started with my engagement in 2015 when we extended the deadline for meeting the obligations under the agreement and asked the Slovenian side to join the fulfillment of the agreement under threat of lawsuit. We did not get an answer at all from the Slovenian side or on several calls they did not want to respond or respond to meetings. It was only after the lawsuit was filed that they answered and the talks began. We have also informed the DORH of the illegal book of real estate in the territory of Croatia. A note was made on these properties and in 2016 a first active reaction by the Slovenian parties appeared through Italian investors to purchase claims from the state agency for the insurance of savings deposits and the recovery of banks. But that offer was really humiliating and offensive. It wasn't an offer that was an insult. However, the most important thing for us was to always leave room for negotiations to preserve the work of 1030 workers you mentioned. And the first sign was sent only a few days ago from Croatia, on the Slovenian side when the offer was amended and which gives hope to end these negotiations. In this regard, talks with the Slovenian Ambassador to Croatia were also opened. I had personal conversations on the subject and made contact with the Minister of Economy of the Republic of Slovenia Mr. Počivalšek who also announced his arrival in Zagreb so that we could finally start talking on the subject after 16 years. We have directed all the patience and understanding we have had all these years for the ultimate agreed solution. This is a good sign, and I believe that in the next few weeks after the meetings already agreed with the Slovenian side, a final agreement will be reached to maintain production and all full employment that is currently in CIMOS Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25772	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25773	I thank you for your answer. Yes, it is 1036 employees in Croatia with the goal and plan to expand the production by another 168 employees. But what I want to point out is that many countries are trying to attract new investments with different laws and incentives aimed at producing, in particular, exports and job creation. In this case, it is, therefore, an existing company with a long tradition, with an exceptional knowledge of how, with exceptional quality labour and what is very important in the secured market, i.e. the guaranteed future. When I talk about this company, Cimos is in Buzet because he employs eight hundred employees. If I tell you that the city of Buzet has a total of 2880 employees, then it's very simple to leave the ratio. We'll see that it's 28% of all employees. I don't want to imagine what would have happened to that city and that area if that company hadn't let God go bankrupt, then neither would the state have charged its claims. And what's much, much worse these people, their families and suppliers would lose their jobs and it's also the mountain-mounted area, then we all know together how important it is. So my appeal is, above all, thanks for the engagement so far and for the appeal to try this problem of an existing debt that no one disputes to look dynamically. What does that mean through perspective in the future? Therefore, retaining employment, production and export, not exclusively static to ensure, first of all, the continuation of the production of a successful company, the production of knowledge that has been accumulated there and exports. And my proposal can include members of local self-government primarily, so the city of Buzet and Istrian County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25774	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25775	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow representatives, members of the government. My question is for the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs of Mr Davor Ivo Stier. What Croatian diplomacy and government are doing to support and accelerate the Euro-Atlantic path of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the rest of Southeast Europe. In fact, the EU and NATO at the border of Croatia and BiH share over 1,000km of borders and that is the longest limit of one member of the EU, one non-member. Unfortunately, despite the huge military, political and financial assistance of the International Community for the past 20 years, BiH has not yet become a stable and only sustainable state. In particular, the political subjectivity of the Croatian people in BiH has been compromised, mainly due to the imposed revisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the electoral law carried out by these audits of the Constitution itself. Again in BiH, political paradigms that were present in the evening of independence and the outbreak of war in BiH are reviving Serbia's separatism and high-level unitarism that feed one another, deepening divisions in BiH, destabilising BiH, blocking development and blocking its path towards Euro-Atlantic integration. In doing so, these processes are influenced by some outside centres that do not care about these Euro-Atlantic integrations, as they reduce their influence and reduce their geopolitical ambitions on the territory of Southeast Europe. In the midst of this, Croatia's policy favours the overall BiH, but decentralisation, federalism and EU and NATO members. I believe that the Euro-Atlantic integrations of BiH and Southeast Europe are the way to peace and stability and South-East Europe and the entire European Community I also believe that they can be a generator for internal changes in stability in BiH. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25776	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Ivo Stier will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25777	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, distinguished MPs and MPs, distinguished Mr. Bozo Ljubic Croatia supports all reforms that countries in Southeast Europe are in the accession process or have ambition to get closer to the EU, those who want to implement it to NATO as well. It is precisely because we believe that in these reforms there is an additional value for efficiency, for better functioning, for the legal security of these countries, for the entire area of Southeast Europe, and that is then also in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in the interest and security of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, both the European route and the Euro-Atlantic route, BiH provides a good framework to resolve, to raise open issues, to launch certain reforms that are extremely important for Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, and of course for the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The electoral law is one of these items, one of the key reforms expected in 2017, which is a prerequisite for the further approximation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As you know, today's Electoral Law, unfortunately, allows for the discrimination of both citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are not members of the constituent peoples, but also discriminates and Croats as a constituent people because it enables other people to choose their representatives for the Croats. It is actually a succession of judgments and the European Court of Justice in the case of Sejdic Finci, as well as the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina from 1 December of last year, which was also adopted by you, or on the basis of your appeal. Croatian diplomacy has just focused on this key reform. You saw that for the first time at the United Nations Security Council in an annual debate on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina following a report by the High Representative that EU Ambassador, Ambassador Almeida stressed the need for reform of the electoral law, but also respecting the principle of equality between three constituent peoples and all citizens of BiH. You saw that EU foreign ministers also held a meeting of the General Affairs Council in December last year also for the first time pointed out that electoral law should be amended, but respecting the principle that Croats, Bosniaks and Serbs must be equal, precisely respecting the fact that Croats today, and as the BiH Constitutional Court has argued, are not in an equal position. As for other key reforms, of course we also support them. In December, we closed an open issue which was on BiH's path to the EU, as was the adaptation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so the special protocol also introduced BiH's traditional volume of trade with the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, means by reducing customs competitiveness of Croatian and European products on the BiH market, something that has long been discussed and has been resolved in December of last year. In a concrete technical sense, Croatia supports and fulfils questionnaires bilaterally with other Member States and at the end of this week we will also have at the level of the BiH Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs in Zagreb already preparing for a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers where we will discuss all other bilateral topics, including on the agenda and the Agreement on European Co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25778	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25779	Mr. Minister, I thank you for your response, and I thank you even more in the way in which the Croatian government and Croatian diplomacy led by President Plenkovic and you refer to the Eurointegration of BiH and the rest of the region, as well as in this solution to the Croatian issue in BiH, because I believe that this is also the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. So a stable region of Southeast Europe, and it will hardly be without the involvement of this region in Euro-Atlantic integration. As I have mentioned in the issue, there is still a strong international impact in BiH on the presence of foreign judges at the BiH Constitutional Court in the institution of the Office of the High Representative, hence the OHR, who has the mandate of the UN Security Council. and therefore I ask you to continue to explain the situation in BiH to your partners and the EU, to the international community and thus to contribute to the internal stability of BiH and the region. It is therefore extremely important that the decisions of the relevant courts are implemented in the course of this year when it comes to the electoral law, first of all I am referring to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on the election of members of the BiH presidency, the Constitutional Court of BiH on the basis of my appeal as regards the choice of the home of the people, the Federation of BiH and of course... Constitutional court when it comes to the city of Mostar. The enforcement of these judgments will in an appropriate way contribute to the harmonisation of the institutional relationship between the three constituent peoples of BiH, certainly deepen the trust between the citizens and the people of BiH and allow us to devote ourselves to... the development of Euro-Atlantic integration and, of course, I welcome it and I am glad to hear that Croatia has joined in helping BiH to meet the questionnaire, to create conditions for meeting EU candidate status for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25780	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25781	Mr. Prime Minister, in the draft Law on Changes and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, a discriminatory provision on mandatory medical examination for drivers over 65 years of age is being re-installed when the driving licence is extended. The applicant incorrectly states the need for urgent harmonisation of Croatian national legislation with the numbered European directives, none of which relate to the conditions for the extension of the driver's licence but to the technical regularity of the vehicle, the regulation of the car's school and the like. The applicant describes in an offensive manner the reduction in the ability to drive and in a discriminatory way that links it to the age of life, illness and the need for health examination. The MUP statistics show that the main culprits for traffic accidents are speed, alcohol and drug abuse, and lack of experience, not years of life. There are no relevant breakdowns and analysis of statistics. Oreshkovic's government supported an accelerated increase in the working age to 67 years, so how can we expect people to be able to work longer, and we don't expect them to be able to drive a personal car? Also, how did the legislator without any parameters determine that a person becomes less capable of driving on his 65th birthday? Available MUP statistics tell us that older than 65 years are not a risk group because most of the crimes and crimes committed in road traffic have been committed by under 65 years, those aged 15 to 34 have caused more than 35% of accidents and 10% of drivers over 65 years of age participate in 8.5% of accidents. My question is, who needs laws like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25782	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Hrelja, Minister Orepić is not with us today, he will show himself in writing to you on this subject. As far as I know, it is only the thematics that are in the public debate and the new law in the context of harmonisation with EU directives. I think that's a question that we have to take in a thorough account of both the costs and the time that third-aged people should take when it comes to these checks. In any case, we are open to discussion and to your suggestions, and the minister will appear to you in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25784	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25785	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I would be very happy to have such a procedure because I believe that psychophysical health and driving hazards are extremely individual categories and must not be generalised. European practices vary even though they allow age-related restrictions. In Denmark, the driver’s license is renewed after 70 years to 5 years without medical examination, after 70 years without medical examination in Britain, but every 3 years the driver’s personal statement and in Finland after 70 years of renewal depends on the family doctor while in Germany, France and Belgium there is no age limit. So to conclude, pensioners are not against medical examinations but this should be done by a family doctor who has an insight into the full health condition of a patient without compensation, not by costing them an average pension. The pensioners are above all to increase road safety and this is not a matter of form but content for them. We believe that the provisions of the existing law in this context are good and long-term acceptable even to those who think that age will never come to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25786	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25787	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Prime Minister and all present ministers. I would have a question for Mr. Kuštević's construction minister. Mr. Ministers of your Ministry announced on 17 October 2016 a call for the energy reconstruction of several residential buildings that closed 16.1. means yesterday, and in the media I read that the deadline for the application was extended to 31.1. this year. So I'm interested in why, what are the problems and why is this extension? And the second question I'm interested in is, what about the energy reconstruction of the buildings? When will EU funds begin to be used for this purpose? And especially if these funds can include fire departments of voluntary fire departments and public fire departments that would by all criteria... because they have 24 hours of duty, means permanent work and are in poor condition so we see a chance that they can make these, arrange those buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25788	Thank you. The respected Minister Lovro Kuščević will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25789	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Sanader, thank you very much for asking. If you had noticed, there were two public calls for energy restoration in our buildings one for the educational and educational character where we had predicted 152 million kuna, and the other for multi-state buildings that should have been closed on 16th, but thank God we have a very great interest in our fellow citizens and businesses that deal with the housing so that we can process all the requirements in time, to evaluate them in quality and to allow for the completion of documentation for those who miss me extended that deadline to January 31st this year. I must say, and this is in the spirit of the government's efforts that this is the first time that the funds for this purpose are being used by EU funds rather than by more than national programmes, which will certainly improve and improve the image of the absorption of European funds into our Croatian budget. According to these two programmes, we expect to sign 500 contracts totalling 450 million kuna, until the end of this year. And that this will be said in favor of the fact that so far, only in this programme that we have extended has we approved 200 apps worth 300 million kuna. As for the energy reconstruction of buildings in the public sector, therefore, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has developed a programme, and here we have gathered the last consensus needed, unfortunately because of the new government, because of the new elections, we have to go back to collecting consent. I have just received information from yesterday that we have gathered the last consent, so in the next 15 days we expect that this programme will be in place at the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it will be adopted and that the call for tenders will begin. Under the programme, we have foreseen 211m euros, too, from all European funds. You understand when these amounts are summed up, that's about 311 million euros in grants. What this will mean for Croatian construction, for energy efficiency, so I would dare say for the better looks and views of our settlements, cities and villages. As far as firehouses are concerned, it is this program that I spoke about earlier in public buildings that will soon be in the session of the Croatian Government that provides for the energy restoration of all public buildings and so on as firehouses, of course, if they as well as all buildings that will apply meet the necessary conditions and these are standard conditions regarding ownership and achievement of a certain degree of savings. So the answer is positive, it will be possible to apply firehouses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25790	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25791	Here's my thanks, Mr. Minister, and I congratulate you on all the successes you've listed both yours and... The Governments of the Republic of Croatia and perhaps this would be a good way to extend as long as there is funding, so that you do not limit 31.1. That's the first one. And secondly, thank you for these firehouses. This is too important for us because a large number of homes have been built by our own means of voluntary fire companies and citizens, as well as a normal unit of local self-government, so that according to all norms they fall into it. And here I appeal to you and to the government to accept and to involve firefighters in this because you know what would be returned multiple times, or that firemen will, by their activities and by their work, justify these funds and the EU, and normally and the funds of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that will be at your disposal. I'm sorry that there is no Home Secretary, so he would still appeal and, yes, there is the prime minister, and he will hear it, to solve this problem, too, for the chief fire commander to return to Croatia's fire department as it was 140 years old and so the entire fire department will be in one place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25792	Thank you. The next question is asked by the distinguished representative Andro Krstulovic Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25793	Dear Mr. Vice President, I have a question for Minister of Labour and Pension System Dr. Tomislav Coric. We are witnessing that at the end of last year, a basis was raised for trade unions, for public service wages, and that's why the good news asked me to ask what was actually going on with the negotiations that the government started with its negotiating team and with the unions of civil servants and tenants. And what the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to do and intends to do in the coming period in order to further improve the social dialogue between this important segment of our society and the valuable employees who are building our country. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25794	Thank you. The respected minister Tomislav Coric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25795	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Krstulović Opara, and thank you for your question. At the very beginning of the answer to your question I also get to know respected representatives and the Croatian public with the circumstances we entered, which we entered into conversations with our social partners. Therefore, the base for salaries in public and state services in 2012 was changed for zero kuna, it remained the same. The Kukuriku government also increased the base for the 2013 salary account by zero kuna, so it remained the same. In 2014, the basis for the salary calculation you guessed remained the same, it was 5108.84 lipe. In 2015, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Government decided that Kukuriku had the basis for the calculation of salaries in public and state services remained the same, therefore unchanged. The government of the Republic of Croatia in talks with the social partners entered at the level of unchanged foundations. As for material rights, unfortunately we have a similar situation. Therefore, Christmas as one of the material rights, although agreed by a collective contract for civil servants and subsistences, which was in force by a legal act, i.e. by the Shorty Act, the remuneration of certain material rights from 2012 was abolished for 2012 and 2013. When I talk about 2014 then a regulation was adopted in 2013 which also abolished Christmas as a material law, and finally by the Law on the short payment of certain material rights to employees in public services in 2015, the contracted law for 2015. In such circumstances, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or its negotiating committee, entered into talks with our union partners. Our talks that lasted 12 months last year, i.e. that ended in 12 months 2016, did not bear fruit, i.e. the agreement with the Public Service Trade Unions was not reached. In view of the fact that the basic Collective Treaty for Public Service Trade Unions, i.e. for public service employees, lasts until 12.3.2017, the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to re-negotiate with trade unions in the next period of time on a new basic collective agreement. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia did on its own initiative was to raise the pay base in public services as of 1.1.2017 from 5108.84 June to 5211 kuna and 2 June, so for two percentage points. With this act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a clear message to representatives of the Public Service Trade Unions and public service workers to take care of them. She also sent a clear message by paying the Christmas Day for 2016 to take care of her employees both in public and state services. At the end of the answer, I would also like to emphasise the fact that the Government, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia's negotiating committee, with civil service unions, or state-owned deputies, has reached an agreement and since 1.1.11.2017 has increased the base by two percentage points with an obligation to further increase the base by two percentage points since 1.8.2017, and at last since 1.11.2017, increase the basis for state services by another two percentage points. This way I would like to stress our willingness and will that in a constructive dialogue with the representatives of the public services, we reach agreement on a new basic collective agreement and to create a social partnership which, unfortunately, for years, the merits of each other's government were not created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25796	Thank you. Dear Representative Andro Krstulović Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25797	... So the government's decision to increase the basis of an excellent pledge to finalize negotiations on a basic collective agreement, a truly fundamental document that will not only create a strong partnership as you have said, but also restore dignity to a number of people who work hard to build our society, our public services, and in this way, except that it will restore dignity and create a quality framework for further work, these numerous arguments that we hear too often, alleged arguments that we hear too often about people who are protected as face bears, that they can't be anything, that they are unemployed, that they are arrested. [[Specially enabled.]] That's what needs to be done. And the basic Collective Treaty which is the goal of your negotiation is definitely the best way to climate confidence and quality atmosphere in working to build our society is actually achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25798	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25799	Thank you, Vice President. I have a question for the prime minister. Namely, since the prime minister has informed the public that the President of the Republic has introduced him to the details of his trip to the United States, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if the president has received an invitation for an official invitation to the United States? I'd also like to ask why the public wasn't informed of this trip in advance. And I'd like to ask if the U.S. Ambassador welcomed the President when she arrived? It is mentioned in public that the US ambassador was on vacation for three weeks at a time when the President of the Republic of Croatia was in the United States. Given these facts, it is justified to ask whether the President of the Republic of Croatia visited the United States privately, officially or privately? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25800	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25801	Thank you very much. Dear Comrade Bunjac, you know that according to Article 113. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is governed by foreign policy, and in accordance with Article 99, it is co-operating with the President of the Republic in its design and implementation. I was aware that the President would visit the United States before she went, spoke with her after she returned from... from her visit. The question I think you didn't think about the U.S. Ambassador, but about the Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to the United States, it was based on the information I have from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs that informed the Ministry that he was coming to Zagreb for health reasons for members of his closest family, therefore he was justifiably absent from what I have. The president held talks with his associates at the time of the US administration's transition. I think she said enough herself in public what she was talking to and who she was talking to. When we take international activities and lead foreign policy and government, and the president is also responsible for what they do, they work in a way that is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Neither has a detailed view of the meetings been sought so far, nor has an insight into any invitational letters been sought. You can also visit on the basis of phone deals, this is a modern time, a time of rapid communication, the time of the call letters has passed. I wouldn't want the public to hunt too much for that. I think she's explained enough in public why she was in the U.S. for what reason. It was enough for me what she told me. The United States is the main global force, they are important for the Republic of Croatia, any contact and preparation of our relations with the future administration can only be useful because it is important for the overall global relations. So I'm concerned with the information I've received about her is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25802	Thank you. Honorable representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25803	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. So I'm not happy with your answer because I think people should be invited somewhere. Here we were all invited yesterday to a session of the Parliament, we had to confirm our arrival, also at committee meetings. I don't know if I'm allowed to attend a session of your government without a call. If you think it doesn't matter here, I'll be happy to join you next time. And I would also like to warn you that perhaps the president told you where she was going, but she is also my president, the president of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's her duty to tell all of us where she's going. Here to avoid thinking that I am malicious, I will tell you what your party colleague Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic said when President Josipovic went to the United States in 2014 and there met only with the vice president of the United States and not with the President. He said it was a gaff protocol, that it was a politically completely missed move and that such a meeting was below the level of what the Republic of Croatia currently represents internationally. It is incomprehensible that the president of the state can be allowed to be treated on such a low level in protocol on the American side. So these are your words or words that came from your party, and President Josipovic's visit to the United States compared to the visit of the President of the Republic of Croatia Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic was a major diplomatic success because this painting in front of the fences on the streets with Santa Claus really doesn't resemble the integrity of the institution of the President of the Republic of Croatia and it would be quite fair to expect someone to be removed because of this, if it isn't already an ambassador to the United States who, according to the media in Brussels, is on vacation with his wife, according to your claims on treatment in Croatia, I don't know, should be replaced by the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25804	Thank you. The next question is asked by the distinguished representative Ljubica Ambrusec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25805	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. President-in-Office of the government, ministers, ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to refer my question to Mr Tolusic, Minister of Agriculture. In fact, we all know that not so long ago, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the other government implemented an operational programme in agriculture and rural development. The implementation of the operational programme included the Croatian Agricultural Agency, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Advisory Service. In fact, we know that through the operational program in the Republic of Croatia a lot of good is produced by cattle farmers in such a way that they are done in an extremely modern way. As I was a participant in that part myself, I consider even pre-modern farms compared to other countries already in Europe. They thank the project because the state has really encouraged people to do it, but also people then have borrowed credit and over a very short period of time, so I believe, and this is also a question to Mr. Tolusic that quite a farm is mortgaged and a lot of farms are certainly not in operation, a lot of farms are abandoned. And my question is actually how to further shape those farms and how to move on to production, because we all know that one particular part was for the destruction of these farmers, and so was our village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25806	Thank you. Dear Minister Tomislav Tolusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25807	First of all, welcome to fellow parliamentary deputies, of course the prime minister, fellow ministers and ministers. Thank you for asking the question. As you have said, we have implemented operational programmes from 2004 to 2012 in order to raise new farms in the livestock sector and in the pig farming sector. We've raised a lot of farms, and unfortunately a lot of those farms have been in the process for the last few years. Part of these farms was financed from pre-accession programmes, meaning... from IPARD, part from commercial loans, and part from loans that went through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. About the number of loans that went through commercial banks, we don't have any exact data because they're still banking, banking secrets. When we speak in this piece that went through HBOR, there are a lot of our users and our farmers. Part of these loans went into the reprogramme, part of our farmers unfortunately failed as we concluded ourselves so that part of these farms ended up with the collection of HAMG guarantees, of course they went for sale or are now empty. The Ministry is also trying to find some solution for these remaining farmers who are in the system when we talk about HBOR, because each of them is an individual problem in all of this. We do not intend to write off the loans because it would not be correct for those who paid for it, to find some modality whether further reprogramme or other things actually make the current crisis that is in the livestock sector especially... to ease in all this. When we talk about farms that have been abandoned, unfortunately or fortunately, we talk first of all about private property. These farms are either still in the hands of those farmers who no longer use these farms either in the hands of banks or others. There we can try to find some models and the fact is that it's primarily private property. In any case, we are aware of the problems we have in the livestock sector and we are trying to solve it, and we will see through soon and through larger amounts in the incentive system, through various advices we are trying to make through changes to the regulations when we talk about the milk sector and everything else, but unfortunately, the situation is what it is. When we talk about agricultural land, we don't need to forget it. What our Prime Minister also mentioned today is that we are also doing an amendment to the Law on Agricultural Land, that is, a whole new law that will restore the availability of our municipalities and cities with the control of the ministry, the DORH and all those who should be. And I hope that this segment will recognise livestock farming as the primary goal of developing Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25808	Thank you. Dear Representative Ljubica Ambrusec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25809	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I must say that I am, in part, satisfied with the answer, by the fact that there will be a situation to deal with this problem, what the Prime Minister himself said and you and the abandoned country that really should belong to cattlemen and people who deal with production, because we also know that in a large way that we just mentioned people had failed and that they did not actually have an adequate amount of land to farm and, of course, to feed their cattle. I also hope that through the EU the funds will truly liven up to the overall situation because we are witnessing that we really must say that I would say a good start to agriculture because we know that Croatia has, is a golden country and that it can produce food and that this food can be available to all Croats. So Croatia can feed Croatians, and I also believe that the quantities of food can be sufficient for export. I hope we all stick together to this problem-solving thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25810	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25811	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I ask the question to Mr Tolusic, the Minister of Agriculture. To ask this question, I was asked by the members of the vineyard associations. In recent years and in northern Croatia, one of the most dangerous plant diseases of the vine has appeared more commonly known as the golden jaundice of the vine. This disease has caused major economic and material damage to vineyard cultures. According to me, the available data in Croatia has been researching phytoplasm since 2002 as part of a programme of special control of wine vine phytoplasm and vectors. In 2016, the expansion of the phytoplasm of the vine in Varazdin County takes alarming proportions. In certain municipalities such as Harp Hum is so critical that there is also a declaration of a natural disaster. Unfortunately, the disease affected not only the area of the Varazdin County but also the neighbouring counties of Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorska and Koprivnica-križevnica. Its suppression requires drastic phytosanitary measures that involve the devastation, destruction of the infected cane and even the most frequently entire vineyards. So my question to the minister is, are you familiar with the state of the field? What is the ministry doing or planning to do about this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25812	Thank you. Dear Minister Tomislav Tolusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25813	Thank you to the Honorable Uncle for asking the question. The golden jaundice of the vine is an extremely aggressive disease like you said yourself and realistically the only way to say the cure other than prevention when it comes to the disease itself is actually eradication or reeds or actually whole vineyards. In 2015, we had a primary phenomenon in the Istrian county where it was discovered, of course, on the basis of orders from the Ministry of Agriculture over 40 hectares of vineyards, but in 2016 other than Istria, we have such a phenomenon in Varazdinska, Međimurje and Krapina-Zagorje County and something in Koprivnica-križevčka. In 2016 it was some 15 acres [15 ha] but we are afraid that it is much more and given the seriousness of the disease itself and the drastic measures that we must take, of course, we are doing everything we can to stop this disease before it actually shows its true consequences. During this very period, let's say by winter we are carrying out various activities to prevent disease control. We conduct the education of winemakers actually to get to know them how to recognize the first occurrences of the disease, to prevent this disease in time. We're doing detailed lab tests to determine specific maps, so areas that are compromised, to set up special monitoring on them. But what's actually the biggest problem here is similar to the underpass in the Gorski Kotar, which is the area in this case the vineyards are abandoned but also some other agricultural areas that no one is processing. Then you have a situation for one piece to land, and the plot next to it has been abandoned, and there's an American cricket there again. I believe that we will also be able to bring an order in that part, that when we are in such a situation that the disease really threatens larger areas, that we can bring an order that will actually exclude this part of ownership from use and that we will be able to actually decide whether the municipality, the city, the county or just the ministry will disembark those areas for which we do not know the owner or the owner does not want to solve them adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25814	Thank you. Dear Representative Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25815	Minister, thank you for your response. I believe that you are aware of how much pain, effort, work is needed to raise one vineyard and with how much will and grill our winemakers are processing these vineyards. So here you are once again invited to have the Ministry and all the services involved to help our vineyards prevent the spread of this disease. And, of course, it's also financially helpful to all those who have already suffered it. If you're going to take a tour, you're welcome to invite us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25816	Thank you. The next question is asked by distinguished MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25817	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question is for Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Mr. Plenkovic, ten days ago, the President of the Republic returned from US property. We know it's a practice for statesmen to meet with the newly elected president, with his team. For example, Japan’s Prime Minister Abe met with Mr Trump, and his associates met with his advisers, so to their litigators, or their equivalents. But we do know that the president hasn't met with Trump. Did she meet with the counselors we don't know, because it's supposed to be a secret. But what I'm interested in is specifically from the activity and authority of the government of the Republic of Croatia that you're in charge of. I would like to know if the Embassy of the Republic of Washington has informed the State Department of its visit, and whether it says in the note that it is a private, working or official visit. I am interested in this, and I believe a good part of the Croatian public which is precisely the added value of this visit to the Republic of Croatia, for our international position, for our position in NATO and for the allies for the final work of your Government. Because if we take the minimum price of that visit, the minimum conservative assessment is between 100 and 150 thousand kuna. I believe that we as a legislative body and the Croatian public have the right to know what we have received for this money. And speaking of foreign policy, I would like to ask another comment, or answer. The same President of the Republic said in an interview with Klein Zeitung that anyone not well in the Republic could leave it. 80,000 of our fellow citizens have already left, so I wonder if that's the official position of your government and you yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25818	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25819	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic. As far as the contents of your question are concerned, it's almost the same as that of my colleagues, the Bunjac I just answered. The Embassy of the Republic of Croatia in Washington formally notified the State Department of visiting the President of the Republic. A fellow Stier knows that, and he informed me about it. As far as the added value of these talks is concerned, I am sure that they were useful, that the contacts that had been a sort of investment in relations between the Republic of Croatia and the future administration. If there were no encounters with any outgoing administration of President Obama who was still on duty with President-elect Trump, it is not so unusual. For details of the visit, the President informed the public of the extent she considered necessary by my court from her point of view. I don't intend to go in in any more details of her visit. What she said to me was, for me, in the communication we regularly maintain was enough as well as a notice that she would visit the United States before she went. As far as visiting costs are concerned, I really don't know or did it. The topics about the costs of numerous visits, including some of your US government ministers, were topics with which the public became very intensely occupied in their own time, but that's not my style, it's not my policy. I'm not getting into that. The president has a direct mandate from Croatian citizens, she received confidence in the elections, has experience in foreign policy, and I believe she knows why she went to the United States, and she has said that enough. As for the interview you said in Klein Zeitung I didn't have time to read that interview, so I can't comment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25820	Thank you. The honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25821	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, I cannot be pleased with your response to the team any more than I asked you and as you yourself said when you were answering your colleagues before me as a creator, co-creator of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. So we know she hasn't met with the outgoing or the newly elected administration. So, our president and then who did she meet? The public only received information on the dropper which these meetings were and that is why I am interested in what added value for the Republic of Croatia as such. Because I'm telling you one more time. So, if we take a very conservative assessment that she only went with one associate and three members of the insurance company, that they slept in two rooms in hotels of medium quality, we get to the amount of 100 to 150000 kuna. It's taxpayers' money that's been spent and deserves some answers. I find it more interesting that the president is not going to the inauguration, but here from the media I found out that our colleague Miro Kovac is going to the inauguration. If she has not already met with newly elected members of the newly elected administration, this was a great opportunity to do so, as it is also a practice to meet inaugurations of American presidents with a new administration, but also with statesmen of other relevant countries for Croatia who come to the same inauguration. You have not said anything in particular, I would also ask for a written answer, and from your last part I can only conclude that politics if not the government, and then the president is absolutely unwell in Croatia, who is not willing to go, and that you don't care about those 80,000 people who have left since you've been acting in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25822	Thank you. The next question is asked by the distinguished representative Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25823	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to Minister Murganic. On 22 January 2013, the Republic of Croatia signed the Council of Europe Convention to prevent and combat violence against women and violence in the Istanbul Convention family. The signing of the RS Convention has shown interest and has joined the efforts of the international community, notably the Member States of the Council of Europe, in order to make further efforts in this area to take measures aimed at promoting gender equality, combating all forms of violence against women, including domestic violence. Unfortunately, during the previous four years or so, the area of violence has been neglected by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the necessary activities have not been taken to implement the measures of the national strategy or measures aimed at ratifying the Istanbul Convention. Many women are interested in the following, when will the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, in accordance with its work and competences as a key state body in the field of protection against domestic violence, as well as the co-ordinator of the production and further implementation of national protection measures against domestic violence? When will the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy ask for the appointment of representatives of bodies and civil society organisations in which the area of domestic violence is in part-round work for membership in the working group for the establishment of laws to confirm the convention?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25824	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Nada Murganic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25825	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, prime minister, ministers and respected deputies. Since I'm checking in, I'd like to say hello to you for the first time today and thank you for the matter of Counselor Ljubica Maksimchuk. Namely, respected MPs as you in the introduction explained by the Republic of Croatia that the signing of the Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family in the Publicly Known as the Istanbul Convention. Although we are signatories as a state of many documents related to promoting gender equality, to prevent discrimination and to prevent violence especially against women, but in general to violence and if we have all these measures implemented in our Croatian legislation together with the strategies you spoke of, we cannot be satisfied with the results. Since 2013, the Istanbul Convention has not been ratified and this is a significant difference between the signing of the Istanbul Convention and ratification. Signing means that we agree with everything in the Convention, but when it is ratified by law in our Croatian Parliament through the law, it also creates an obligation to implement it. Its significance is so much that it gives rise to a higher level and importance in the prevention of violence, the protection of the victim, and the punishment of the perpetrators of some crime or crime. It's important and it's a very complex process. The Republic of Croatia must do so as a country which has defined itself for a zero degree of tolerance in violence and adhere to such and international provisions and has them implemented in the legislation. What have we done since 2013? We did this only now at the end of 2016 to begin the appointment and formation of a working group, which will be composed of representatives of civil initiatives or associations, from representatives of resolution ministries and certainly from experts through the academic community or representatives of various scientific institutions. The working group will also be tasked with leading all the ratification processes of the Istanbul Convention according to the rules of law in our Republic and the Croatian Parliament, and according to the normative activities, this will be on the agenda at the end of 2017. As it is a truly complex process in the ministry itself, a structural unit will be formed to monitor not only the adoption, but also the implementation of the law because I repeat a complex process that requires and expertise, organisation and considerable financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25826	Thank you. Dear representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25827	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I sincerely hope that you will speed up the ratification of the Istanbul Convention is here every day we can hear that this struggle is that violence against women is on the rise, so here I think it is high time to ratify this agreement that will certainly contribute to reducing violence against women.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25828	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Environmental Protection, Energy, Mr. Slaven Dobrovic. Mr Minister, the recently adopted waste management plan, gives up the construction of a waste management centre or reduces the capacity of those to be built. Accordingly, in Karlovac County, the waste management centre that is intended to build its grandma's capacity up is therefore reduced from 100 thousand tonnes per year to 35 thousand tonnes per year, although waste disposal plans are planned at that dump, i.e. in that waste management centre both from Sisak-Moslavina County and from the Licno-Senj County. Therefore, my question, Mr. Minister, is where in 2018, 22 units of local self-government in the carlova County will postpone mixed municipal waste, and how much punishment will we have to pay to the European Commission for the reason that we will not be able to comply with what we have agreed, which is that until 2018 we are not dumping waste into an inadequate landfill, and from which funds will these penalties be paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25830	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Slaven Dobrovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25831	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much for asking the representative. So your question is to ask, point out the danger of payment of the penalty, so the damage is that we would not meet the conditions for the suspension at harmonised landfills by the end of 2018. So what we are doing now, so this reform of the waste management system, which is fully harmonised and required by the new European therefore, which is going to raise the degree of sustainability, to raise the level of recycling, to reduce the damage to the environment, is exactly the one that will solve the problem entirely. If by any chance we had stayed on the map as it was drawn in the previous administration we would have had 13 globular centres with over a million tonnes of annual capacity that would bring new municipal cost between 800 million kuna and billions for who, of course, for the users. Therefore, I suggest we stop being afraid of the dangers that lurk here. We've got a lot of work to do here anyway. When I think about everything, so it's about the state administration, the ministry, it's about the county, it's about local self-government units and citizens who must also be involved. So I suggest and answer you that we will soon show our activity that things in terms of capacity, in terms of practice, can change significantly faster than it is imagined, or what many imagine. I'll just remind you that some units of local self-government have achieved the goals that the Republic of Croatia has outlined in the Sustainable Waste Management Act because we were obliged to do so. So 50% recycling by 2020. It's already done somewhere. I think that the citizens of Karlovac and also of all municipalities, the cities that are gravitating in that centre are quite capable of responding to the challenges of today's time and thus reducing capacities so that in late 2018 we will not be standing before the question of who will pay for the damage but will be able to see significantly better statistics of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25832	Honorable representative Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25833	Mr. Minister, the problem is that units of local self-government, if they knew the capacity of units of local self-government, then they would know that unfortunately they are unable to carry out what is planned by their waste management plan. So they neither have enough time, nor have enough capacity to achieve the primary selection of separation. Unfortunately, construction of sortery and construction of recycling yards is not realistically planned in the waste management plan. And that will eventually lead to what you don't dare say and that the price of punishment and foam will fall on citizens and thus increase the cost of waste disposal. And then it is necessary to tell the Croatian public because in the end it will break over the back of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25834	Thank you very much. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Marin Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25835	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. My question is for the Minister of Justice to Mr. Sprlja and this issue concerns illegal credit RBA cooperatives. We know that from the 7th convocation of this House that question is being raised to the 8th convocation of this Parliament and now to the 9th convocation of the Parliament. There's no final solution. We know they didn't have permission from the CNB, that's a fact, we know they forged signatures, stamps, etc. A million illegal stores. Ms. Editor at HRT Helena Krmpotić even lost her job because she gave room to talk critically about the subject. We know the familiar cases of the Vojkovic family, we know the case of Mr Dukić etc. etc. It is important to say that the opinion of the previous government of Mr. Oreshkovic has also given an affirmative view in the sense that there have indeed been illegal actions and that there is something to be done on this issue, but so far there is no concrete solution. So here's my question for you specifically what do you intend to take on this matter and what are your plans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25836	Minister Ante Sprlje's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25837	Thank you very much. First of all, I must point out that the issue of RBA cooperative operations is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance in accordance with Article 8. Laws on the formation and division of the Ministry and other central authorities of the state administration. However, you have asked a certain part of the question regarding the judiciary, which is if there are crimes. The law provides, therefore, for the Executive Act but also for a certain part of the Consumer Credit Act to be delayed until the completion of the procedure to determine whether a criminal offence has been committed or whether the contract concluded on lending or similar legal business is harmful. As far as I'm aware, no cases have been found to date where a crime would have been committed, we're talking about a possible judicial verdict, at least I don't know about such a case. I'm closely monitoring such situations if there's a case that would result in a powerful criminal conviction. Of course, if there were to be a powerful verdict, which would imply that there is a criminal offence in such a case, the conditions for suspension would be met. On the other hand, I must say that you have also cited Prime Minister Oreshkovic's opinion, but it is often misreadable. Thus, it did not establish that individual bodies were giving illegal loans or something else. So that there are existing laws to delay or enforce the right to end the litigation procedure or to suspend the exercise if, or to delay, too if a criminal offence occurred. We will continue to follow such actions closely, following whether there were crimes committed by Austrian or Croatian citizens. If we determine such a thing, believe me, we will react without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25838	Thank you very much. Representative Marin Skybola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25839	Here I would like to say that it is not true that this refers to the Consumer Credit Act, because the Consumer Credit Act covers only natural persons. It is therefore necessary to enter the Law on Mandatory Persons, which includes both natural and legal persons. That's the first thing. It's another thing. I'm starting from the point of view that all these loans were illegal, because there was no permit from the CNB and that you as the minister of justice should do something about stopping at least future actions that were coming until it was actually solved in that precise sense. I, too, have a bill of law. I hope that you will be in the mood for future communication and that we will try to find a solution together because of many families that these loans have affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25840	The next parliamentary issue, the respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25841	Dear Prime Minister, leaving the post of former Culture Minister Zlatko Hasanbegovic. All the people in the media, especially in those non-profits, but also all the other people whose democracy is truly at heart, breathed with relief from the nightmare. That relief was also supported, and hopefully, when you appointed Ms. Nina Obulen Koržinek as Minister of Culture. First of all, because we all know that the lady is an extraordinary expert on media issues. We were hoping that this poor situation in the media would improve significantly. Unfortunately, they haven't been fulfilled so far. Prime Minister, I ask you, when did you rightly give up Mr Hasanbegovic's ministerial services? Why didn't you give up his completely missed policies? Why didn't you repay the funding of non-profit media as guarantees of preserving the most important democratic values?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25842	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25843	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Stazic. When it comes to financing the entire NGO sector, you have seen the budget this government has presented and the budget it has received. Croatia needs a pluralist media scene, it needs responsible actors who carry important information and important facts in a professional and true way, and also make comments that should be used as corrective for all public affairs. That's how I experience the media, and that's how I see their role, and that's how I lead the dialogue with them, and that's how the policy behind which we stand. The Minister of Culture is an important actor of this government, conducting a dialogue with all cultural policy stakeholders including media policy. The Assembly Committee has a very important role to play in this regard. Minister Hasanbegovic contributed while serving as culture minister in the past government. I think that the policy that this government is leading is a policy that is correct, pluralist, democratic, turned to dialogue, facing division in society against a priority of mistrust, as your colleague Maras had in his exposure to me today, against inappropriate criticism, as your colleague Djujic is working on social networks higher than the President of the Republic. And against a series of other things that don't contribute to the culture of dialogue and responsible communication in public space in my court. With regard to the non-profit media, culture ministers will have dialogue with them, find solutions and I am sure they will have their share in the public space of Croatian media public life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25844	Thank you. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25845	Dear Prime Minister, you don't see the role of the media in showing it this sweetly, especially those of the nonprofits. I'll give you proof of that. The evidence has already given you several MPs here when they told you about how to monitor the activities of the President of the Republic, above all on the public media financed by state support. It all went pathetic, first of all no announcements of departure, then that miserable announcement in front of the White House board. Well, didn't even you as a foreign policy co-creator co-creator make it a warmer place for the president to check in, so the poor thing was freezing there, so we all saw that she was cold. It went even worse when she came back to the country. She did not dare to give an interview to any media or even to those with a national concession, but chose to participate in a entertainment show by one of the regime’s court journalists. We didn't know anything in that interview, or who invited her, or who she talked to, or what they agreed to, or what the results were. We didn't even hear about the famous president's chocolates in that conversation. Well, we least resent that, that court reporter, because the question of what he thinks about the person who shares chocolate by nationality might not have had to ask the president. It would be much more appropriate given his profession to ask the president of the parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25846	Thank you. And we're going to conclude this in the morning with a question from a colleague named Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers. I have a question for Minister Slaven Dobrovic. Since the Waste Management Plan has been adopted for the period 2014 to 2022, I have a question when are calls for allocations from the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25848	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much for asking. So the Operational Competitiveness and Cohesion Programme for the period 2014-2020, we are today at the beginning of 2017, so fat is being delayed, but here is the Waste Management Plan was a prerequisite for starting using these funds. When do we start? So, in the beginning of February, a tender will be launched and we expect about 58 to 60 units of local self-government to come forward for the financing of recycling yards. So it is for the first time that such content is financed from European money. So far, this has been reserved for national funds, even if it was possible. Later, we believe that we already have eight ready recycling centres, or sorters, for which a public call will be called in the middle of this year. And of course we're working on all those other fields I've already talked about. I talked so I wouldn't last. So education, waste prevention measures, of course, and waste management centres in terms of the rest, so there will be intensive work here, since we need to take care of the rest of the waste not recycled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25849	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the current morning is over. I thank the Prime Minister, the vice presidents, all members of the government for their patience. I'm setting up a recess. We'll be back to work at 15.00 hours. It's 13,47 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25850	If you agree, then we will begin by asking a question to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Articles 132 to 139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line for asking questions is MP Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25851	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, respected members of the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, for asking the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Mrs. Žalac. A few days ago in the media, we had the opportunity to read about how you intend to establish a Council for the Slavonia project at the government level, with this Council, you intend to strengthen this project so that we can withdraw 2 and a half billion euros from the European Union funds, which is certainly commendable and that Slavonia deserves. But I'm asking you for assisted areas, so as Minister and your ministry, you intend to take action to pay operational attention to the assisted areas. Because, as we know without the help of the state, these assisted areas will not be able to develop evenly, and without the development of assisted areas there is no even development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25852	I thank Representative Milosevic. Minister Gabriela Zhaozac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25853	Your Honor, Your Honor, I thank you for this matter. In our Ministry of Regional Development, we plan to open up the Administration for Supported Areas as soon as the Regulation on Authorities in the Management and Control System is passed, which is practically related to the adoption of a Regulation establishing a final and systematicisation within our ministry. This will certainly give extra attention to the 264 units of local self-government belonging to the first and second groups according to the current development index, which will certainly grow to an even larger number with the new development index. I must say that half of the Republic of Croatia, half of the territory of the Republic of Croatia actually belongs to assisted areas and I believe that we should pay particular attention to these areas. What I can certainly say here is that in the Government's 2016 mandate, the 20th in Chapter VIII. concerning the even development of all parts of Croatia, we have foreseen the adoption of the Law on Supported Areas, which will also determine the sublegal acts and programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for assisted areas. What was actually not good was that within the Regional Development Act, only one chapter was assisted areas. We believe that we should single this out in a separate Law on Supported Areas and thus give it to the essential units of local, regional self-government from these parts of Croatia. I would also like to highlight here the part relating to the project Slavonia in part, as well as what we have announced we are going with a proposal to the Government to set up a Council for the Slavonia Project which will certainly be one engine, a driver at the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and monitoring the actual implementation of the project itself, which primarily generates funds from European funds, from current operational programmes but also other programmes of ministries that are related to the development of these parts. I also have to tell you that the part relating to this law that will be in the third quarter is safe in the Croatian Parliament also applies to the replacement of the law on areas of special state care which has already gone into six amendments and additions and we believe that this law will ultimately bring some sort of solution to the benefit of all citizens in rural parts of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25854	Thank you. Representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25855	Dear Minister, I thank you for your very comprehensive response. I don't think just forming a management for assisted areas is going to solve their problems, but I think it's a good step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25856	Thank you, Representative Milosevic. Representative Davor Bernardic is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25857	Dear President of the Parliament, I refer my question to the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, I demand a clear unequivocal and meaningful answer. Do you intend to keep your promise on Christmas Eve and bring the state to the purchase of INA shares from MOL which has done her a lot of damage so far? Can you guarantee that you will keep that promise today and here? Tell the Croatian public and tell us a clear plan of how you intend to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25858	Thank you. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25859	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleague Bernardić, esteemed fellow MPs and MPs. I welcome you to another current morning. Croatia has several strategic companies. I think we are all in Croatian political life, in public consent that INA is one of them. The INA story over the past 15 years has been highly complex and has brought a number of political, legal, economic, so we can say both social and problem issues and open issues. The government has been dealing with INA since the first day of its term of office. As you remember after many years we held a meeting with the INA Administration, held consultations with Croatian representatives at the Supervisory Board, with Croatian representatives of the INA Administration, with representatives of INA workers. We want to reach a broad political consensus on the purchase of MOL shares in the INA, following the judgment of the arbitration court in the framework of the Unital in Geneva. I think it's good for the Croatian economy, I think it's good for the INA, I think it's good for the energy security and supply of Croatia. When we announced it at the end of last year, we didn't say it because it was a decision made by ad hoc. It was an initial idea since the first debate within the government and a debate between the partners who make up this government. We believe that, politically, following a series of open issues that we have with the Hungarian side and MOL, this is the best solution and for interstate relations between Croatia and Hungary, Hungary, which is our neighbouring and friendly state. We believe that this is good for the Croatian economy and we think it is good for the functioning of the INA as a vertically integrated company that has also given great pain in Homeland work, which must also have gas and oil reserves in its system, which must also have refineries that function and which must have a high quality retail chain. That's why we've been thinking about a model that would be best suited to generate funds to buy these shares without creating a new public debt. Of everything we've heard in the public debate in recent weeks, I've heard no better, more efficient model without creating public debt, I haven't heard from the idea, the initial public offering 25% minus one share of HEP. I am saying this because those who know corporate governance, who know the Company Act, know that this is exactly how the Croatian State as owner, 100% owner of HEP, and with 75% plus one share retains all key rights in HEP management, without any sale of national wealth as it could often be heard in the past days. On the contrary, this would allow us to meet more corporate governance standards for this other strategic company, which is profitable today, which is quality and which could thus help buy MOL's shares in INA. It's an idea, I think we can talk about it, I think this government is open to dialogue with all the actors, that we're willing to listen to other suggestions, but from everything I've heard in both professional and political debate, this seems to us, in the name of the government at the moment, the most appropriate model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25860	Representative Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25861	Your Honor, I'm afraid there has been no public debate regarding this proposal that you made. I'm afraid that the idea you don't really want to share with the Croatian public until the end about this INA buy-in model doesn't hold water. So for the money you can get from selling a quarter of HEP you can't buy half of INA, it's clear to everyone. But if you still believe you can do this then you know something more than we do from the entire Croatian public and we can rightly suspect that there may be another secret plan of HDZ politicians and Croatian Prime Ministers with Hungarians, especially because you announced and resold INA to a new strategic partner after this sale of INA. And when you resell it to the INA, and for that money, you buy it. Sell HEP to buy INA then it has its consequences. What can and must be said that HEP is definitely not ready for sale at this time, so it will take at least two years for HEP to be ready for IPO, but HEP also has three billion kunas of capital that can be invested in the acquisitions and in the region, which can be invested in improving business and HEP does not need privatisation, HEP needs responsible and capable management. And we won't let you take over INA's back the value of HEP, and that way, if it's INA reselling because if you're reselling INA, then de facto that money from HEP with it is patching up the state budget that we warned last year that it was too high. It's too high, we left the order, it's a cutdown deficit, Croatia that's growing, and now, in this way, by selling HEP, and by reselling INA de facto, that money from HEP would go directly to the state budget. So instead of building some secret plans for the sale of HEP and for the purchase of INA I invite you to discuss it and to discuss it important [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] National issues consult the opposition. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] The first opportunity is tomorrow... /The speakers speak at the same time. /... a professional debate about INA and about Croatian energy independence and I would like someone from the government to join the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25862	Representative Bernardić, please, we must stick to the order. Representative Zeljko Lackovic, the next representative who wants to refer a question to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25863	Thank you, Mr. President. So I will refer the question to the Prime Minister, and the question is on the trail of these earlier questions, will this Croatian government also implement Hungarian policy towards INA? We will recall that Racan's government sold INA as a strategic partner to MOL who was three times smaller and with four times smaller reserves to develop INA. It was ignored both Gazprom and OMV independently... or how many million kuna differences, then we know that the impact in INA was resolved in a way that the state wanted to resolve its share over 50% in any way, so it was given to defenders and all employees to bring that share down below 50% in order to finally sign extremely harmful contracts for several million Kuna Sanader and Polancec. Later the policy continues and Prime Minister Kosor and Finance Minister Schuker who also sign secret contracts, if they sign something secret then they must answer for it because the Croatian public was not familiar with the content of these contracts and these contracts represent high treason for the Republic of Croatia. I believe that Croatian interests can only be sold but cannot be redeemed. And I'm amazed at the fact, and I'm asking you, how is it possible that, at a time when there are powerful verdicts that have been lifted by decisions of the Constitutional Court that are not actually a court, when you have a charge against Hernadia, you announce that you're going to buy the MOL stake in INA in that way as if you're sending a message to the judiciary that you don't have to do your job? And when you ask for a model then I ask you that where is the model of the functioning of the state's justice and the decision-making and judgment for all those involved in malfeasance and high treason, the priority and number one point that you have to do before you say you're going to buy something and at what cost you're going to buy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25864	Thank you, Agent Lackovic. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25865	Thank you very much. So you see this document right here, you know what this is? This is a product made at the time of the government of Kukuriku coalition by Morgan Stanley and Sberbank and Uni Credit. You know who was the subject of this IPO HEP study made two years ago? So much for the amount of time it takes to make IPO HEP. You know fellow Lackovic that in each contract there are two essential elements, one is the subject and the other is the price. In such a complex transaction as the purchase of MOL's stake in INA. This job is not negotiated through the media, this job is not negotiated to be all public and transparent, this job is negotiated with the help of the most professional, professional consultants who are specialists in this area and who will watch a thorough analysis of the value of INA today and the value of the share of Hungarian and MOL shares in INA. When this is done in parallel with the analysis of the value of HEP, which at the moment is an extremely profitable company, which also has profit, which also has the means to which the opposition leader spoke, then we can, through consultations with those experts, get to the best and financial and legal experts what you are talking about. What's important and I think it's been quite clear in the past few weeks, which is that there is a will by the Hungarian side, by MOL to sell its shares. And it's that important element and the prerequisite of all these discussions and all the decisions. Without that fact, I assure you that neither this or any other government of the Republic of Croatia would go with such strategic political decisions that we are talking about today. That's the important and the main element. I firmly believe that we can find political consensus in the country through dialogue, through debate, because of all the voices that are heard, at least when it comes to parliamentary parties very few who oppose the return of INA to Croatian hands. I didn't hear that, and I think we can all stop behind that. And this is the topic, the topic of the Croatian future, the Croatian economy on which we can and must build a consensus. The government is open to this, to dialogue with all parties and the opposition parties. About who and what role he played in the privatisation process of INA from 2003 to 2009 is a story in which there are many responsible. At least I hold my government responsible. This is the government that's here to solve problems. They will be dealt with in a transparent manner both in the spirit of agreement and with partners within the parliamentary majority and with opposition parties. And our ambition is to have two strong energy companies that are well managed according to the highest corporate standards and that will also ensure energy independence and energy supply of the Republic of Croatia and in terms of oil, and in terms of gas, heat or electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25866	Thank you, Prime Minister. Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25867	... Respect for your arguments, with all of you wanting INA to come back into Croatian hands, creates the impression that the whole operation Saving the soldiers of Ryan or returning INA to Croatian hands is actually a primary interest, it has to move with the privatisation of HEP. [[Specially enabled.]] So by my judgment, you have to rely on the Croatian judiciary, you have such harmful gas business contracts that are signed in secret, which have an entire region of bilogor and sub-level swimming pool that produces 2/3 hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia, the Podravina that produces 80% of all gas in the Republic destroyed. For 10 years, INA did not pay either MOL 3 or 5% of the ore rent while it would pay in Hungary and 60% after payment. On the other hand, this contract has created a great commitment for the Republic of Croatia. The judicial authorities in the Republic of Croatia did not deal with the case, but the international arbitration authorities did, although they should have reacted to the Croatian judicial authorities. We would very much like to have bilingual panels in Podravina with Hungarian inscriptions but also receive rent paid by MOL in Hungary 60%. This way there's not even a study for a sub-level highway, or anything you talked about in your justice, and it's exactly my end that's been cut off in such harmful gas contracts. And give between you and the solution that when you return the INA back to what was once finally cut off in its development and how you will solve the Sisak refinery issue in how much MOL or its share does not buy someone really strong who can develop all of our and production potentials and give us energy security. You won't be able to handle it this way with HEP, and those who assure you that they have no good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25868	Thank you, Agent Lackovic. Representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25869	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, and here is whenever we talk to a certain economist, then he says that bureaucracy and excessive administration of cancer is the whole situation in the economy. So on the trail, the government adopted an action plan for administrative discharge. The plan announces the establishment, so I apologize for the question to the honourable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs. Dalic. Therefore, the plan announces the establishment of companies without excessive administration, so by electronic means, without seals, without notebooks. I ask you until we can plan such a solution because our entrepreneurs, or businessmen, have been waiting for a quick service without paper for a long time, as I said without unnecessary administration. And can we expect our entrepreneurs to get all business information in one place through a unique contact point instead of wandering among institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25870	Thank you, Agent Mikulic. Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25871	Thank you very much. Well, you're right, MP Mikulić, because the issue of excessive normity, excessive administration and excessive costs that need to be done in order to meet various administrative obligations represents a significant burden for entrepreneurs and reduces the competitiveness of our economy. Because meeting excessive, pretentious and excessive obligations in many parts of our legislation causes direct costs and also wastes the time again. As a result, this action plan is a first step towards reducing administrative burdens, reducing unnecessary costs, while maintaining all standards and quality of business and the quality of meeting the social responsibility of entrepreneurs. I would therefore like to point out at the outset that 104 measures taken by this action plan do not eliminate and eliminate any standard, not a single obligation relating to public interest and business rules, but the way in which these commitments are met by this action plan wants to make it cheaper and simpler. The action therefore addresses 7 areas of which one is the insurance of the full electronic opening of companies which d.o.o. which is simple d.o.o. The action plan also includes simplifications in the field of work protection, sanitary and technical conditions, trade and liberalisation of personal services. We've assessed the financial effects of this plan using so-called. The standard cost method that is standardly applied in the countries of the European Union and based on the method used and its systematic application in these 7 areas has been assessed that the total discharge from the simplifications that this plan brings will move around a billion and a half kuna at the annual level. As regards the specific electronic business and the possibility of setting up a company by electronic means, the aim is to ensure, by the end of this year, technical and other assumptions that the company can be created fully electronic without paper, without public records, without markings and without stamps. The Law on Administrative Taxes already passed allows all administrative fees to be paid electronically without having to stick to those stamps and they are recorded, notes that are well known to us. Accordingly, the Action Plan is further developing and reviving this. I therefore expect that, in particular in the service sector, it will also be possible to electronically secure the opening and launch of the business through a single contact point at which all information will be available and through which the whole business will be able to be done. A single contact point is already in place and already operates in the Ministry of Economy, in a similar way as in other EU countries. So this year will also take a number of further steps in this direction, towards simplifying business, reducing costs, improving the business climate as you know Government's main objectives. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25872	Thank you. Representative Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25873	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, thank you very much. I'm pleased with this forceful and detailed answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25874	I thank Representative Mikulic. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25875	Thank you very much. It's a matter of internal affairs. Just these days, the Italian Senate ratified an agreement between Italy and Croatia on cross-border co-operation between the Croatian and Italian police. This agreement is bilateral between the two countries that have so much in common, including common problems. Last month in Rome, in the Italian Parliament, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the second treaty which is also the product of something that Croatia and Italy have in common - minorities, a contract to protect national minorities. Because when it comes to minorities, everything flows slowly. It took ten years for him to get his first results. There were several important results, for example bilingual on the ipilon, etc. But one of the results was that, in the police administrations, the word of the coastal-goran and Istrians was set up by tents in Italian. So counters for the Italian minority's needs where you could turn in Italian and get an Italian response in Italian. This was in line with Article 3 of the Treaty, which states that the rights of the Italian minority are extended where the Italian minority and the state administration live. In short, those counters are gone today. My countrymen tell me they're coming to the police department, but those counters are gone. They caused a sense of tolerance and security in my national minority, so I find it a huge failure that these counters are no longer available, and besides, they were one of the rights under which they were not allowed to go. So I'm asking, there's no Home Secretary, so I'm asking the Prime Minister why this happened?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25876	I'd like to thank Agent Radina. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25877	Thank you, colleague Radin. We will, of course, ask the Minister of the Interior to brief you in detail and in writing on this subject. But in Croatia, as you know, the basis of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities and the Law on the Personal ID of the Ministry of Interior issues all documents in the languages of members of national minorities. According to the data available to me, nearly three thousand such documents were available during 2016. What I also know is that the requirements for managing administrative procedures in the language of national minorities are almost gone, if they were to be dealt with for sure. This particular question that you said about whether there are concrete counters in the Rijeka Police Stations will be checked and we will answer you. I understand the symbolism, but in specific cases what I am known as the Prime Minister, there have been no more serious problems so far in issuing ID cards or other documents in the languages of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25878	Thank you. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25879	Yeah, no problem. You say well, Mr. Prime Minister, but this isn't about problems. It's like you also said about a particular symbolism. I also don't think it's happened since you're prime minister. I think it happened a little earlier, but we still have to deal with it to get rid of it. If there is one national minority that e.g. For the sake of bilingual card, and there are other national minorities, it is the Italian National Minority. Almost all Italians are working bilingual cards, working on this counter. It is not about whether the Italians know or do not know Croatian, I think all Italians know Croatian in Croatia. The problem is that such symbolic places show something that is very important and that is true for other national minorities when it comes to bilingualism. These counters, those bilingual streets, those bilingual names mean Italians, my dear Italians from Croatia, you're home, which is why it's written in Italian, because it's your home. So I'd like to ask Mr. Prime Minister to, along with the Home Secretary, ask him to answer me in writing. And as for the law, all laws on the rights of national minorities and constitutional law, of course, which is among other things organic law, one ratified contract in this case between Croatia and Italy on national minorities. You know that its meaning, its significance is superior to the laws, and what I told you those counters were established on the basis of that contract, so I would ask you to solve that little but big problem as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25880	Representative Veljko Kajtazi wants to ask the government a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25881	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. My representative question is precisely the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Mr. Lovri Kuštević. Dear Minister Kustevic, the government led by Prime Minister Plenkovic received the support of all representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament, including mine, and it is not questionable. The Prime Minister has given full support to the implementation of the National Strategy for Roma in co-operation with the MP of the Roma national minority. In the state budget, there is an item within your portfolio that reads a spatial arrangement of an area inhabited by Roma in the amount of 100 thousand kuna. Half of this amount was sent to the Municipality of Pribislavec in 2016, where there are very many Roma. For this reason, in cooperation with my associates, I have decided that the best amount of 100 thousand kuna is directed to the Municipality of Pribislavec. However, the amount of 50 thousand kuna from these funds was referred by the State Secretary, Ms Dunja Magash, to the information I have available in Vrpolje Municipality without Roma. My question to you, why did your portfolio in line with the government's commitment not respect the opinion of the parliamentary representative of the Roma national minority and his associates in this decision? Secondly, why did your co-workers send money to the Roma-populated municipality of Vrpolje in which there are only two Roma in the 2001 census and no Roma in the last 2011 list? Is this done with the intention to abuse money intended for the Roma community in order to satisfy other interests And who's going to answer for it? [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25882	Thank you, Agent Katazia. Minister Lovro Kuščević.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25883	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Mr. Katazi, thank you for asking. In fact, you have well concluded that at the end of the financial year 2016, there are 100 thousand kunas left to edit Roma settlements. And here it is, unfortunately, because of the intruding of the mayors and the captains who didn't report to our ministry, and yet thanks to your initiative, which I commend this way, we have come into contact with municipalities that have Roma settlements within their territory. One of these was the Municipality of Pribislavec which you recommended and where we tried to transfer these 100,000 kunas to them. Unfortunately, however, they didn't have proper documentation, so the documentation that can be covered by this program and with all the harmonisation of the documentation, we were in a lot of contact with our secretary of state, we were able to find a way to give them 50 thousand kuna anyway, so they had 50 thousand kuna to justify the funds. The second amount of 50 thousand kuna that is left we have directed to Vrpolje Municipality and here let me read about how and for whom, just for a moment, the Vrpolje Municipality and for which projects. Here's a coincidence I have that file on my e-mail, so I'll read it to you. Thank you. I have two minutes left for a chat on the phone, so Vrpolje Municipality, the program of the arrangement of the Roma settlement Perkovačka in Vrpolje is delivered among other activities of the Vrpolje Municipality, which are related to the arrangement of the Roma settlement Prekovci in Vrpolje, etc. etc. We did our best to spend these funds as well as this government and my ministry, of course, to support this programme, so we predicted the funds this year. And here's my commendation for your cooperation. I ask you to cooperate and especially to activate mayors and mayors in order to report to our competitions in time, so that we really spend all our resources in time. So these 50 grand and these 50 are actually spent in accordance with decisions and in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25884	I thank Minister Kuštević. Representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25885	I must say that I am partially satisfied with the response given and yet I stress that there are no members of the Roma national minority listed in the 2011 census in Vrpolje municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25886	Thank you, Agent Katazia. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25887	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Plenkovic, and I don't think it's too difficult for him to answer that question. On Christmas Eve you decided to buy INA, which was welcomed in public with principled support but also with respect to the experience the Croatian public has with HDZ and its negotiating teams. And a few days later, you decided to sell possible to the foreigners of HEP, a company that won a profit in 2015 of 2 billion kuna. This is how you present in the future the 5 hundred million kuna created by the company built by all Croatian citizens over the past decades. Don't answer me now please in a way that is still ours if we sell only 25% because that way I understand that you can sell both the National Park to Krk and Brijuni and the Croatian Road not in the concession, but you can sell them 25%. So that's the same thing for me. Sell HEP 25% or sell Brijuni National Park. And that's what you do. Although citizens about this model want a referendum you do not want, although citizens do not want this type of privatisation of HEP you want, although citizens do not want HDZ to privatise again the most valuable Croatian company you want, although in the campaign you did not talk about the privatisation of HEP you did not want it now you want it. Since you already have such a great desire to sell HEP, you are probably very well directed. How much is the Hungarian stake in the INA and what is 25% of the shares in HEP worth? Or as former Prime Minister Sanader said, this is another Grosse Spiele.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25888	Thank you. Representative, thank you, Agent Maras. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25889	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. Were you a member of the government when it was prepping for the IPO HEP? Do you remember maybe? I think so. I don't remember then dramatic appeals from your side that we need a referendum, that we're going to sell out a national fortune, that it's terrible, that it's terrible. So let's try to rationalise this debate, and we can only rationalise it if we reach a political agreement, I appeal to a consensus on the return of INA to Croatian hands and on a policy and model that would not create a new public debt. If your government was working on a document that I just showed with the aim of HEP's initial public offering, don't you think it would be logical for another government in the new context of political circumstances to use this study and some positive aspects of it so that an initial public offer that will generate a capital market in the Republic of Croatia, which will create a positive economic and financial atmosphere and climate if you want to interest institutional investors in energy companies and HEP is certainly an attractive energy company for institutional investors. To speak this publicly about the price of a company whose shares are listed on the stock exchanges you know and you yourself were the Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts that it is not particularly wise to do so. Therefore, I will stick to what is important, and it is important that this model that we are talking about in our conviction is the most appropriate and most prepared part thanks to and the work of your government, that we are open to discussions on other models, that we do not want to sell out national wealth, that the referendum on this topic is not necessary, we live as far as I know in representative democracy, the Croatian Parliament has powers, the Croatian Government has powers, the Constitution of Article 52 is clear, everything that concerns natural wealth closer can be regulated by laws. If there is a need for "additional fuses" we can also discuss this. I trust myself. I don't have any, any, or the smallest innuendos that could be brought down to what you're insinuating. I trust both colleagues and colleagues in this government, I trust this Croatian Parliament and you as an agent who will vote on the laws that will come here. I have confidence in Croatian institutions, I'm not afraid to make decisions, though I think we should reach a consensus on them that you have a chance to make your contribution. If you fellow Maras or SDP tomorrow on a round table find a better, more efficient, more quality, safer, more favourable financial solution why not. Give a suggestion, be quite precise here. Here's the government. It's a model that'll solve the problem. INA is in our hands, HEP with 100% ownership of the Croatian state. If you have that solution give it, I will very much listen to it, analyze it, consider it. But what I want to tell you at this point is that we want this process to be conducted in a transparent manner, that it is run in parallel and that it is guided in a broader political consensus in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25890	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25891	Thank you very much, Mr. Plenkovic. I know you believe yourself, he trusted himself and Sanader, he believed the same thing in HDZ deputies, he believed in the HDZ presidency. He got the support of the HDZ presidency and you see how it ended. When there's no transparency, when there's no debate, when we don't know how much it costs, what intentions are behind it, then it's hard to gain trust especially if you've already fallen for both Sanader and Karamark twice. Now 8 months later, you would expect absolutely everyone in Croatia to believe you and think that this will be the most transparent process and privatisation in Croatia's history. What would you do that for? Ask yourself that question. What would Croatian citizens believe you for? Just because you're a good guy from Zagreb? For what? There is no such thing as to say the elemental trust that HDZ and the HDZ government have on this, and it is good in this situation that the coalition partner is reserved according to your announcements because it guarantees that at least some debate will be held. If HDZ were alone, it would probably have already been sold and who knows what kind of consultant a la Petrovic would have done it. On that side, I'll tell you one more time we'll insist on the referendum, or I'll insist, excuse me. The party will make its decisions. I'll fight for the referendum. They want citizens to decide on this, I want there to be no sign of equality for you between Krka, Brijuni and HEP to sell 25% of HEP is the same as selling 25% of Brijuni or 25% of Krka or 25% of Kornati. And on this side Croatian citizens must have a decision ahead of them and they must make it. Don't get around this. To play Sanader, I beg you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Act responsibly. Don't think your solutions are the only possible option.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25892	Thank you, Agent Maras. Representative Maras, thank you. The next representative who wants to ask the question is Representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25893	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to address the question to Mr. Tommy Bear. Do you, or the Croatian Defence Ministry, plan to protect the health of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War after a successful, successful project of preventive systematic examinations continues in the following year and years. In fact, it is known that the problem is not only that many defenders suffer from PTSD or only in frequent suicides, so we know that since the Homeland War it reached out and raised the hand of nearly 3,000 Croatian defenders more often than that they suffer from a whole series of other diseases, including malignant ones, and that earlier they die from the rest of the population. So, those who created a free, independent, democratic Croatian state, who are heroes and the pride of our society, had to, unfortunately, to face an unwarranted feeling of marginalisation during a very long period of time, with the feeling that they are a burden to society, with unwarranted accusations that they are privileged caste with high pensions that they spend on bookies and so forth. We know what we've been listening to, and without a doubt it's the same effect on their psychophysical health, not just war casualties. Therefore, you intend to continue with a programme of preventive protection of the health of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25894	Thank you, Vice President Reiner. Minister Tomislav Bear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25895	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr. Reiner, thank you for this matter. Namely, health belongs to the first order of priorities of the Croatian Defence Ministry. According to data obtained from the survey, conducted in collaboration with the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the University of Zagreb Medical Faculty, 41.38% were hospitalized from 1998 to 2011, and the average age in hospitalisation was 43.8 years. 24249 defenders died in the death of Croatian defenders between 1998 and 2010. This data should also be provided with information on 17287 Croatian defenders who died in the period from 2010 to 2016. In 2016 alone, 3223 Croatian defenders died. So, total since '98. end of 2016 44759 Croatian defenders died. In 2016, the Croatian Defence Ministry paid special attention to the protection and preservation of the health of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. Next mentioned in 2016 we implemented a pilot project in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. Data obtained from preventive systematic examinations will enable the identification of key diseases from which Croatian defenders improve, and also direct us to regularly organise targeted preventive systematic examinations and cooperation with doctors and specialists within the healthcare system in the next period. During 2017 we start conducting systematic inspections in the area of all counties in the Republic of Croatia. The priority will be members of the fighting sector which participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia for more than 1,500 days, which is in the Republic of Croatia 32.816 on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. The funds for the implementation of this programme are secured at the position of the Croatian Defence Ministry for 2017 totalling 26 million and 202 thousand kuna. The start of the systematic examinations is expected at the end of January 2017 when we will sign all necessary contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25896	I thank Minister Bear. Vice President Reiner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25897	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Bear, I am pleased that in what you have now said you will continue to carry out preventive checks specifically pointed out that those who have long been in the fighting sector will have the advantage. I also ask that special attention be paid to the volunteers of the Homeland War. In fact, you as well as the general public know very well that unfortunately with that famous list of defenders, in fact disappeared, the officially missing category of volunteers of the Homeland War, and the volunteers of the Homeland War are exactly the people who, as the first name says, were not mobilized, every honour and all those who were later mobilized, who were also defending Croatia, but in those first days they were volunteers, who were unfortunately completely wiped out from the concept of even the list of defenders and that concept was gone. I think we need to get him back, and I'm asking you to pay particular attention to what you're planning to do to the volunteers of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25898	Thank you. Representative Mato Čičak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25899	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, respected ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We witness daily unexplainable phenomena related to companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. You too, Minister Marić, while acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, often warned about the State Audit reports regarding the business of the same. I will mention, for example, the findings of the State Audit for the People's Newspaper d.o.o. who have been given an unfavourable opinion. The unusual work contracts with even more unusual contract annexes, generous bonuses, life insurance, generous severances are just some of the benefits that many members of public business administrations have, while business results are not something they can boast. We see that the first changes proposed by the government of Mr Plenkovic have led to some public attention, so I am interested in the respected Minister Marić what do you think you are doing to make RS-owned companies more effective, and that no such incident situations occur in certain public companies that are eventually turned out to be unknown in the government? How is it possible to negotiate multimillion-dollar amounts without the owner knowing anything about it? Also in the media are speculation that a criminal procedure has been conducted against the proposed president of the Croatian lottery administration. Minister, is that correct?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25900	I'd like to thank Agent Chick. Representative Gordan Maras, Goran Maric. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25901	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed representative Čičak, the state of business owned by the Republic of Croatia, cannot be marked by black-white optics. There are also good examples, but there are also unacceptable, unfortunately both vandal and projected harmful to this by many findings of the State Audit. The criterion is clearly, business and economically sound, reasonable criteria. We had no clear responsibility, no management, no board of directors. Now these criteria are justified through members and selecting members of supervisory boards and administrations, the state sends a clear message of what it wants from companies. So far, no member of the board of directors and supervisory board has been appointed through a public tender even though it was a legal obligation. Now the criteria are different. The responsibility of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board will be unequivocal and clear. Here today is the meeting of the Supervisory Board in a company because the management and supervisory board have prepared a decision on the recapitalisation of that company without the general knowledge of the respective ministries, or owners, and let alone the request for consent. We think this kind of behavior is unacceptable. As for the contract with the board members, you asked, at this very moment these days there is an analysis at the Ministry of State Assets of all the contracts that members of the boards of commercial societies have and that first analysis shows such charm, inequality, so many inexplicable content in these contracts, various benefits, insurance. I must admit that in some contracts even using algorithmic tables wouldn't help to reach the level of pay of members of those administrations. On these terms and conditions, and on those contracts, the respective ministries and owners almost had no knowledge. Even at times, not all members of the Supervisory Board are familiar with the content of contracts held by members of the Board of Supervisors, but only the chairman of the Supervisory Board. The standardisation process is now being introduced in the process of work and decision-making. Every three months, all companies will have to submit reports on the implementation of the business plan and the report on the state and business of the company, not only in the supervisory committees but also in the relevant ministries. So far, the owner has actually been moved away from social conditions and has only been involved when difficulties arise to such circumstances that it cannot be without the owner further and when it needs help. I think that standardisation in a technical sense will help these societies to be more efficient, more competitive and that we will succeed in removing the mantra so that the state cannot be a good owner because the state is a very good owner in regulated Western countries and such qualifications and prejudices of apriorism neither in a market-based European country does exist. There's private property sacred, but it's no more sacred than state property. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] And we will do everything to make private property sacred in Croatia but not more sacred than state property. [[The incursion president: Thank you Minister.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25902	Thank you. Representative Chichak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25903	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your answer. It is clear from everything that so far there have been insufficient concerns about the business of public enterprises from a quality aspect and that quantitative features such as how many party officials can be placed in this or that company? For example, we had an ex-Croatian lottery that included former members of the SDP's main board and former SDP's europarliamentary. No wonder there are a number of shift attacks in that public enterprise. When we see that there are extremely strong interests in retaining syncour and that the company is managed not by who knows who the job is, but by who's more in the party hierarchy by some of the former ruling coalition's parties. It is no secret that the Croatian lottery served the SDP and the National Journal of the HNS to accommodate their responsible members until some of them even met the prescribed conditions. I am optimistic, Minister Marić, when I hear your announcements about the introduction of standardisation in the way public enterprises are handled and managed, delivery of quarterly reports, insight into everything that happens in companies in a way that manages them with the attention of a good owner and not evil stepmothers. This is what Croatia needs now, and I am sure that the way it manages in public enterprises will change significantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25904	Thank you, Agent Chick. Representative Sabina Vosovac wants to refer a question to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25905	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, you will agree with me that all Croatian citizens must meet their agreed obligations in due time, regardless of the teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors, nurses, social workers, cultural workers, pensioners, employees, unemployed for all the same rights. What I'm interested in is why do you think the same rights of enforcement of contractual obligations should not apply to the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Why I ask you this, a year and a half has passed more precisely since January 2016 that all conditions for increasing the base of pay for public sector employees have been met. On January 26th, the agreement expires in a matter of days. The government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of its Karamarkova, has continued to ignore it completely, I will not say the demands of the public service union but the commitments made, the commitments taken by the Government of Ivo Sanader and the commitments made by the Government of Jadranka Kosor. My question to you is, are you aware of the consequences of the RS budget but also of the standard of public service employees if you continue to ignore their demands? And until when do you actually intend to ignore the demands of teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors, nurses, social workers, cultural employees in their demands to just pay them what they belong to? How long do you intend to humiliate them in such a way that they have to pray for them to meet their contractual obligations?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25906	Thank you very much. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25907	Thank you very much, Vice President Reiner. Dear colleagues, this government appointed its representatives to the Economic and Social Council in the first session of its duties, we believe that social dialogue is one of the most important aspects of the government's work in terms of inclusiveness, in terms of consultation and trade unions and employers. We had very little time until the end of last calendar year, but during that period we managed to make a few important and important steps, in my deep conviction. I'll just list some. We increased the minimum wage more than the Kukuriku government cumulatively from 2012 to 2015. We paid the Christmas bonus without budget rebalancing, we reached an agreement with the Government's government's unions on a unilateral decision to put unions and public service employees in the same position as those in the state services with an increase in wages of 2% of January 1st this year. The dialogue we led with the unions, co-ordinated by the Minister of Labour and Pension System, Coric, is one of our priority, fundamental goals and we will continue with the Public Service Trade Unions. We have a lot of respect for everyone who works in health care, for everyone who works in science, who works in education, education. So we also offered a solution that, in our opinion, was an excellent, correct gesture towards the public service unions. At this stage, we have not reached an agreement, and yesterday I spoke to one of the leaders of those trade unions, we will continue this dialogue, we will continue this conversation, we will seek a solution that will be fiscally sustainable and that will seek to reach that agreement that is realistic at this point. There are a lot of issues, and that's what we talked about at the beginning of the current morning that welcomed this government. And this is one of those. We deal with it transparently, openly with listening to signals coming from union representatives. I believe that this dialogue will ultimately lead to a compromise and a solution that will be quality and good and that will avoid, among other things, some announced court proceedings. This is the goal that we are pursuing, this is the task that as our head negotiator has our minister of labour and pension system and we will persist and I believe we will come up with a solution that will satisfy a number of public sector employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25908	Thank you. Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25909	Mr. Prime Minister, things are pretty clear. You don't want to. He's got money in his budget. 20 days ago we adopted in this Croatian Parliament the budget, you boasted, the revenue side, optimism, perspective. However, in this perspective you do not see teachers, teachers, health care workers, social care employees, or culture as one of your priorities, and you need to speak out loud and plainly. Because it'll just be verbalizing what you're doing. You're going to put the state in a position where these people who carry the system, especially when I think about employees in schools who do an extremely responsible job, who are responsible for our future, are actually looking for justice in court. They've already announced the initiation of the lawsuit and you're aware of how the legal system in the state works here has no exceptions. They'll definitely get those lawsuits, and that'll cost the Republic of Croatia 5 billion kuna because you decided to do it. It'll cost her more than you've fulfilled your obligations to those people. And I'm just going to remind you of the HDZ programme, on page 18 of the HDZ programme with which you went to the elections beautifully says that one of the promises you promise to repair the teacher's material and social status and better working conditions and higher salaries for teachers and teachers. You failed your first test. Indeed, it is trustworthy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25910	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25911	I would like to thank the well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I've got a question for the Minister of Culture, Nina Oblisen Koržinek. Dear Ministers and in political, programming documents, but also in your performances, you have repeatedly highlighted the importance of two pillars of culture, culture as a national cultural identity, the need to preserve national, cultural identity in European integrations, but you have also highlighted the contribution that culture can and should have for the Croatian economy. Several times, it has been underlined that the EU funds intend to finance a large part of the programmes leading towards achieving these two objectives and that the funds will also be used to realise the necessary and necessary cultural infrastructure as well as to realise those programmes that will allow greater participation of citizens in particular young people, not only in major Croatian urban centres, but also throughout the Republic of Croatia, especially in those parts that have suffered major damage and human and material damage during the Homeland War period. I'm interested in a respected minister to specifically respond to what steps are being taken in this direction in order to realise these goals that you have set several times already?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25912	The Honorable Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, dear colleague Mesic, as you said yourself, we are actually observing government activities at two levels. As you know, a very high-quality meeting was held with all Croatian mayors in December, the entire government and mayors, and the meeting was agreed and discussed among other things how to improve co-ordination in the planning of cultural development. So we will establish a much better planning system compared to the counties, cities and municipalities, and in order to encourage all those at local level to better prepare projects to finance primarily from the European Structural Funds in order to restore and protect cultural heritage. Perhaps we should mention here last week in Vukovar we marked the end of a major project of the Vukovar-Vučedo-Ilock heritage restoration where it is shown, ten years of the project, how investment in cultural infrastructure can create preconditions for more uniform cultural development, for valorizing cultural heritage and putting into function in the first order of tourism development. The project was launched during the government in 2006, has been successfully continued in all subsequent governments, and will continue in this government through a project to develop the Archaeological Park in the Vucedol area that will continue to enrich the cultural offer. But that's only one part of it, so one part of where culture is placed as a function of economic development, the creation of new jobs not only directly in culture but also in all those activities that culture monitors. On the other hand, however, the second priority is equally important even cultural development in terms of the availability of culture to all citizens. And we are particularly looking at sensitive categories, so especially young people, and in this sense, a tender from the European Social Fund is now being launched where 18 million kunas are provided for funding cultural activities and participation in cultural life for young people with special emphasis on border areas, in areas where cultural life is lacking. And it is also planned by the end of the year to call a public call also from the European Social Fund for Citizens 54 Plus. In parallel with this and in the budget of the Ministry of Culture for this year we have opened a special entry to encourage participation in culture where we will spend somewhere before summer the first pilot project to see what activities are needed in Croatian cities and municipalities to be supported by the Ministry of Culture, and so that all citizens can participate in cultural life.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25914	Dear Representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25915	Dear Minister, I thank you for your reply. I think it is also necessary to continue to insist on such concrete measures, to point out in some ways, perhaps not enough known fact in Croatian society that culture can contribute practically up to 5% of GDP in certain countries, that this is the goal that can be achieved precisely by these programmes that you have now stated in your concrete response. And finally, by involving citizens over 54 years old or young artists, the creation and development and preservation of, of course, national cultural identity that should be ours and some thought of leadership in the decades to come. I am particularly pleased that you mentioned that you are bringing to an end the large project Ilock-Vukovar-Vučedol, which cost hundreds of millions of kunas, where the Republic of Croatia's special protection service has contributed greatly to the relativization of both Vukovar and Croatia's Podunavlje and to the return of that cultural glow that the generations of Croatian citizens have created throughout the centuries. And finally, I am sure that this project of the Vucedol Archaeological Park, which you have announced, will contribute to tourism development, and therefore also to economic recovery, is about a fascinating archaeological culture that is now being spread across 12 countries of Europe, and that we have its starting point, its foundation here in the Croatian Podunavlje so that this project will certainly get its international valorisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25916	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25917	Thank you very much. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished members of the government. I ask my question to the Minister of Health, Mr Milan Kujundzic. Mr Kujundzic is my obligation as a representative from Slavonia and Baranja to ask you how we will solve the problem with KB Osijek in view of the long-standing problem of the only hospital that treats a large part of the residents of Osijek-Baranja County, but also of the entire Eastern Croatia. As minister two weeks ago, you visited the Institute of ophthalmology of the Osijek Hospital, which has millions of damages after the storms that hit Slavonia and Baranja. And also last year in June the damage was from a heavy storm somewhere around five million kunas in the Gynecology of Osijek Hospital. I ask you, Mr. Minister, since the Osijek Hospital has succeeded thanks to your ministry, thanks to your predecessor, and also to the announcements of former Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Mr. Tolusic, that some of the funds from the EU's 30 million kuna energy reconstruction funds for emergency medical aid and 50 million kuna for the new Department of Surgery of Osijek, however, the old deroute buildings that have been present for more than 130 years have been able to pay off these modern health solutions and appliances, if we have suffered damage here two weeks ago from these very modern appliances, so the Osijek Hospital had to cancel 15 operations that day, so I'm interested in Mr. Ministers how the Ministry of Health, but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans to solve the burning problem of KB Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25918	Thank you. Dear Minister Milan Kujundzic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25919	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow Salapic, thank you very much for your inquiry. Unfortunately, not only in Osijek, but because of the longevity of the Croatian hospitals and equipment in them, we have had the last months of several serious haematarias including these two in Osijek, they were in Split and Rijeka, which were rapidly rescheduled as this last one that happened in Osijek. The truth is that the building where the ophthalmology Institute is located is about 120 years old and such haiaries can be expected. I and this occasion use to commend the staff of the entire KBC Osijek and the Institute of ophthalmology for the rapid shift and protection of equipment on the one hand and more importantly for the organisation that there is no delay in watching operations because it continued operations in other operating halls primarily on the island. And for some of the operations that I can't do right now, the operations in Zagreb are agreed. It is also important to touch the issue that sometimes raises the question of how much it makes sense to invest in buildings that have been exhausted, but with respect to Osijek, what will be done with the united emergency reception, the daily hospital and the addition of surgery is something that is absolutely justified for which the funds are prepared and which will soon start performing as in other hospitals throughout Croatia. And what remains of the message to us today for all living Croats is to try to think long-term how to build new hospitals especially in certain environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25920	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25921	Thank you very much, Minister. I expected your answer this way. I call on you and the President of the Croatian Government, but also Minister Žalac, since so far the hospitals have not used funds from the Energy Reconstruction Funds and also what happened in Osijek, and this is a warning for all of us who live there because of the very conditions of work in Osijek hospital have left us so far in the short time of 30 top doctors who in the EU countries, which in other cities outside of eastern Croatia. Well, then if we don't secure the working conditions for the doctors, but the patients and the citizens who live there, we're gonna have a big problem. I share that concern with you, and I hope that soon we will all succeed together and the Croatian Government will solve this burning problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25922	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by a respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of State Property, a very respected colleague, Maric. Dear Ministers, not only as a parliamentary representative but as a scientist, you have built your career on a very reasoned criticism of the privatisation that was conducted in the Republic of Croatia. You were particularly active in this regard last year somewhere in May, I think everyone will remember your statements that for certain decisions of the then government taken at the phone session not only to raise their hands, but to order the Government to remove its hands from Podravka. Now, why am I asking you this? As a parliamentary representative and as a scientist, you kept talking about the privatisations that took place in the Republic of Croatia and the activities of the Government, but today you are the Minister of State Property, today you are in charge of managing state property, today you are in charge of privatisation. And now, at the moment in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps the largest individual case of privatisation in the past 25 years has not heard or heard a voice from you resolute minister. Well, now that you're not responding to journalist's questions, when you're not responding to requests asked under the Law on Access to Information, then I believe that you'll answer me as a parliamentary representative at the current morning to an extremely simple question, and the question for you, dear ministers, is: Do you support the privatisation of HEP for nationalisation of INA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25924	Thank you. The respected Minister Goran Maric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25925	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed representative of the coat of arms first had a small correction, it was the case of Končar when the shares of Končar were sold at a telephone session then I said here that I would never raise my hand for such a way of selling because of the speed and methodology and because it could achieve a significantly higher price and benefit for the Republic of Croatia. As far as INA and HEP are concerned, I must first tell you that INA has always been an economic giant and business subject of strategic importance. Such economic centres of power require competence, expertise and responsibility, responsibility to the company first, responsibility to the workers, responsibility to everyone in the business system and ultimately responsibility to the state. Unfortunately, in INA and INA, juvenile individuals and groups performed exercises of projected damage. And as a consequence, INA has been traumatized not only since 2003 but also significantly more than 25 years. Economic legality, fundamental postulates even reason, business standards have become undesirable when it comes to INA for a long time. But that's not surprising when 13 years ago all management rights and the decision-making process were given to a shareholder who had only 25% plus 1 share at the time. If this adds to the policies of the same and the same even individuals or groups that retain 30% in another strategic society but deny the rights of any decision and influence on the decision-making process in the company then we are talking about the absence of different criteria. The government of the Republic of Croatia has been moving away from the INA. This government did not give up on INA, did not give up on the INA, and that was unequivocally confirmed by the Prime Minister. And the Prime Minister should not be translated from Croatian to Croatian. And my political position on INA is well known, my view of the need and necessity of the reoccupancy of INA shares is also known as HEP. Always all decisions in HEP and HEP and all decision-making processes should be in the hands of the state and the state must always make decisions on its own and on its own. But I support the inclusion of HEP and other business entities in the process of reoccurring INA. But I must warn you as Minister of State Property, which also includes a number of companies and those listed on the stock exchange, on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, that we must worry about several important details – about the information we give to shareholders. On privileged information, on the provision of privileged information, as well as on persons addressed. Any comment I make on this could be misleading to the investment community and all information relating to the capital markets is exclusively on the HANFA regulatory body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25926	Thank you. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25927	Dear Mr. Minister, my question was clear that it couldn't have been clearer. And the question was: do you support the privatisation of HEP for nationalisation of INA? Since it was a proposal tabled by the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister sitting next to him, you could and should have answered that question only with yes or no. You still gave me back one litany on the wrong way to manage INA. However, from your avoidance of a clear answer, I will draw the conclusion that you obviously intend to implement the Prime Minister's decision, that you obviously intend to do whatever it takes to privatise HEP, a strategic company owned by the Republic of Croatia and that you are obviously doing something that you would judge as a minister. And an example is the May 2016 decision you attacked. It wasn't just a decision to privatise Koncar's respected counterpart, Maric. It was a decision removing the status of strategic companies both to ACI and Croatia Airlines and Podravci. It took the government then three months to make that decision at the phone session. From here on out of this room, you've brought fire to that decision that neither of us would be ashamed of. This government is here now, and you've been sitting in it for three months, but that wasn't enough for you, that decision you spit on your colleague Maric, spit out, which you said was disastrously fixed. Now that speaks of how credible you are and how credibility all of you are together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25928	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25929	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honorable Prime Minister and Minister in the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Krstic. In recent years, the defence budget has been reduced by nearly 1.4 billion kuna, while at the same time before our Armed Forces, Croatia's military year-on-year demands are being raised. Of course, the decline of the standard of life of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers is too clear, and we cannot even talk about quality training, modernization and equipment of the Armed Forces under such conditions. In the past, unfortunately, the Armed Forces have spoken in the context of the burden of society, the need for its reduction, the reduction of defence funds, and we have reached the lowest possible levels. The victorious Croatian army has not earned it, and as a state we must take care of our safety, we must take care of the protection of our borders, the protection of our sea and airspace. So we must no longer allow Croatia to hang a sword over its head. We all know where we were in '91. years and what we've been through. From the lesson and guidance set out in this, we need to take care of them. As a responsible government, you have increased the defence budget for this year that we discussed in December in this House of Commons. We are aware that therefore our Armed Forces must respond to new trends and security challenges, develop new abilities and contribute to collective security. But in the context of their ability to help with floods, fires, search and rescue. We've had opportunities for respected ministers to hear your statements that in 2017, in the focus of the defence system, they'll be exactly man, soldier, officer and officer, his standard, Better living conditions in the barracks. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] In view of this, we ask you to introduce us to your plans and suggestions that you will take in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25930	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Damir Krsticevic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25931	Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Honorable Representative, thank you very much for your question. As you know, this government, Plenkovic's government, after years of cutting the defence budget of almost a billion and 400 million kuna in the last eight years, has stopped the collapse of the defence budget. We have an increase, we have an increase of 8%. That's about 350 million kuna. That's still far away, the current budget is 1.23 gross social product. That is far from the recommended 2% we have committed to NATO. As we see the security situation in our environment coming together, we have new threats and new risks, therefore as a responsible government, as a responsible state, we must take care of our own safety. For me, for us to invest in defense, investing in security is not a cost, it is an investment, because as you said this year in 2017 we want to be a year of soldiers, soldiers, officers and officers in armed forces. We want better conditions for our soldiers in our barracks, we want to focus on the man. It is man who makes a difference both in the Homeland War and today and what is most important we want to restore dignity to the Croatian soldier. These years, a lot of Croatian soldiers have been taken from him, taken from him overtime, taken from him a field supplement, taken from him a command supplement, and even that diet someone has made a diet that is different that a soldier has one diet, an officer of another, an officer of the third, so that since 1.1 we have introduced one meal for one meal that is equal to that in the Homeland War, and so it should be done today that the soldier is ready to perform the task. Another very important thing, it's the development of abilities that are also very important, we want to develop the new abilities that we need to deal with these threats. The third very important thing is the operational schedule of our army. I don't know why in the last few years the army has gone from some space to which it invested from Varazdin, Sinj, Sibenik has gone to worse conditions, and now it's our job to analyze because there's no point in a man from Varazdin leaving for Petrinja, from Imotski to go to Knin or Benkovac or a lot of Slavs to be in Knin, let's set up this operational schedule a little bit that he's in the function of carrying out his assignment, we're going with the army to Vukovar. You know that it is in the function that these Slavons are closer, and on the other hand it is in the function of our security, and that is also a concrete contribution to our Vukovar economic development. What is lastly very important is our budget, apart from security, we want to direct it to the Croatian military industry. Here I am now 30. I will sign a contract worth more than 250 million kunas with Croatian companies in support of the Croatian product to be in our armed forces but to support our industry as a whole. All in all, the Croatian army is a brand, the Croatian army will carry out all its tasks set before it. And what is most important to us in everything in the function of monitoring the overall situation and I say once again, Croatia is a safe country and what is most important NATO is our obligation and I say that Croatia will never endanger again. Thank you all for supporting the larger budget of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25932	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25933	Thank you, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense. I'm very pleased with your answer. I see that you are applying a complete strategy of restoring and strengthening the armed forces, not only to improve the living conditions of Croatian soldiers but also to renewing the technique, so what has been ignored in the past period. And what you mentioned yourself through the task force schedule, I am very pleased that one of the Croatian troops will be found in our city's hero city of Vukovar. And also giving names to certain halls in the Ministry of Defence, and as far as I hear all the military in Croatia by the names of war heroes, the people who led us in the Homeland War, from War Minister Gojko Šushko via General Janko Bobetka, Zvonimira Crvenka hero Blaga Zadre, are the guarantee that we will also return pride and dignity to the Croatian soldier and will develop our armed forces on the basis of the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25934	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25935	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. With an action plan to disburse the economy, you plan to save a billion and a half kuna from protecting the work of a billion and 200 million, so 80% of the total amount. Looking at your action plan, you can see that he's high and that a lot of those things you're thinking about saving and those millions you're thinking about saving are really not real and they're not the ones who should be answering the truth. But what you will save, you will save on the health of the workers. There are no savings and there will be none, and I can say that this plan is contrary to EU policy. While today the EU's policy is aimed at strengthening the protection of workers' health and safety at work, you as a person who strongly advocates pro-European policy in Croatia are implementing the opposite. Instead of hitting other segments of unnecessary administration, the government decided to take a scalpel to a system that deals with people, their health and safety, and directly and safely to the citizens because you lower health and sanitary standards. Mr. Prime Minister, please give the Croatian workers a clear and public answer whether this government will insist on austerity measures that directly pose a risk to the health and safety of workers at the workplace and will you, if you insist on the proposed policy of savings on workers in Croatia, be personally responsible for increasing deaths, injuries to the work and permanent damage to workers' health due to the reduction of labour protection for most workers in the Republic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25936	Thank you. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25937	Thank you very much. Comrade Mrssic, don't be so dramatic... mortality at work due to measures aimed at dissipating the Croatian economy. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We have said that the government's priority after the tax reform has been passed, following the new Public Procurement Act will be further concrete measures that will facilitate business freedom and entrepreneurship of all those bold people who engage in business ventures. That is why this plan that we adopted in the Government, which has 104 measures and which should bring savings of 1.5 billion kuna, comes upon a very high-quality and well-percepted and well understood clear definition of the government by those who face numerous charges each day and for whom they rarely see no concrete benefit. You noticed and in the debate over the past few weeks, and you noticed that the key principle of protection at work was the principle of proportionality, the principle of proportionality. I think you'll agree that it's not the same to worry about the protection of the work, for example in the construction sector or in some society, some company, some institution where the job is related to offices. On that side, it is through this principle that goes for quality and further savings. When it comes to hygiene standards, public health standards, all we're talking about in this plan is in accordance with international standards. There is no backward step that would in any way put these measures at risk of food safety or any other way of safety of public health in Croatia. Therefore, these measures are on the trail of EU policy that has been on track for years, but indeed has been in place for years by former Bavarian Prime Minister Seehofer, who is just about to remove numerous and administrative barriers and types of burdens that exist at EU level and are not useful for entrepreneurs and are not necessary for real life. Therefore, this action plan is one document on which the commission we have set up will be included in the dialogue and work of the commission and representatives of the unions. I think they should make their contribution and clearly articulate if they see certain aspects that might be problematic. I think you're going to assume that none of the people who are in government or in any corridor who have all worked out of their own corner on this document would have the aim of in any way jeopardising the public health or safety of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25938	Thank you. Dear Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25939	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, in your response, there is not one word that carries a million and a half thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is a worker. In your answer, you haven't looked back on the workers in any way. And when you talk about the principle of proportionality being something that led you, then I'd like to point out that you're reducing the possibility of systematic examinations of people who work in noise. And that means like this. That every year they go for a checkup and prevent them from deafening or being deaf. Is that savings or not? I should like to tell you, Minister Coric and Minister Dalic, who, in his interview alone, boasts that you would like to be Margaret Thatcher of Croatia, obviously do not care about the health of workers. Look up to international companies in Croatia that raise our labour protection standards to an even higher level and have even greater plans than our Labour Act requires. If the EU encourages strengthening the protection of workers at work and you respect our workers, mention them in your speech and allow them decent working conditions as do workers in other EU members. But so far, the government's policy confirms that profits are above health and that you think Croatian workers deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25940	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrsic, I don't doubt that this demonstration of yours drew the media's attention which was your goal, but I would ask that we avoid such things anyway. Next time, somebody's gonna play their favorite song, like, play it or something. It's not at home level. Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by a prominent representative of Ines Strenja-Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25941	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, is therefore today the top theme of the INA, but I will ask my minister, our Minister Slaven Dobrović, a question from another domain, and that is: Am I interested in seeing that the waste management plan has been adopted which steps are you planning to take further? So it is not in anyone's interest to continue to have the situation that we have today in Dubrovnik that closed down its dump in Grabovica and is now likely to not classify the waste in 440 kilometers away from the municipality of Gunja, which was not long ago flooded. What kind of expenses are these? So someone in Dubrovnik, someone in Dubrovnik who had a sewerage before many cities in Europe didn't remember to take out old paper before that, and today we have a factory in Osijek that imports old paper, didn't remember to produce compost for our olive groves, didn't remember to remove plastic and metal and dangerous waste such as asbestos and batteries. So this is the situation in many cities throughout Croatia. A waste management plan has been adopted and I'm interested in what are your further steps to implement this plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25942	The Honorable Minister Slaven Dobrovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25943	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the honourable MPs and MPs. Dear Representatives Strenja Linic thank you very much for asking. So, yes, we brought in a waste management plan for the period 2017/2022. So it's a document that provides guidance for the development of waste management. He was very important because it was a prerequisite for developing all the activities we had already started. However, you know that without funding practically many activities stand still, so we are now in a position to go fuller. So with many activities in the field of building a modern waste management system. The modern system today, since we are part of Europe, means building a circular society. So they're not modern units for processing mixed municipal waste, they're modern concepts that build up, so all of the elements of the system by respecting hierarchy. Therefore, we are now in a position to go very quickly with the programme of education of citizens and all other participants, so we are able to go with the programmes of waste prevention measures, so we are able to go, so to visit all units of local self-government, and also regional self-government where we will agree with them final facilities and positions, since we now have a well-established system dimensional with 70 units of recycling that make up the backbone, so these are varieties and composts that will be deployed throughout Croatia and that will allow for the achievement of high recycling targets. So I thank you for asking. Very soon the public will be familiar with our actions, since we will have to communicate, so in many ways both with units and with citizens. Mostly activity is a lot. We want available funds, so through the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion in this segment is 475m euros. Therefore, in addition to the responsibility to practically engage those funds to the maximum extent possible, there is a responsibility as they are engaged. So we don't want to build a system that will then burden citizens, not achieve goals, but exactly the opposite. So, with a very small participation of the domestic economy, as was the case so far, rather than exactly building a system that will be consistent with the new concept, i.e. the circular economy, which is the sorting area, it is a separate collection, raising the awareness of citizens that I think is unjustly underestimating and that those environments where the recycling rate is low are in fact due to a poorly organised system rather than poor awareness or low willingness of citizens to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25944	Thank you. Dear representative of Ines Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25945	Thank you, Mr. Dobrovic. I hope that you will use all the money that is available to us as you have said and implemented. But I would actually remind you that we also have a bright example, which is waste management on the island of Krk, which is already more than 50% higher, meaning from the European average, and we are actually given that percentage of waste outage by 2020. So I hope we finally have the political will to implement this waste management plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25946	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25947	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Honored Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Ministers and Ministers, Honored counterparts and colleagues. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Health, Professor. You're a coward. You have already said before you became Minister of Health that the highest value of the Croatian healthcare system is doctors, nurses and other health workers. There are a number of health institutions dealing with the treatment of children in the Republic of Croatia, the largest number of which has been stationed in the city of Zagreb. However, two hospitals are owned by the city – the Srebrenica Children's Hospital and the Psychiatric Hospital for Children and Youth. It is the only psychiatric hospital for children and youth in the Republic of Croatia and unfortunately the level of protection in the area of children's adolescent psychiatry in the Republic of Croatia is not exactly enviable. But what's the biggest problem, so it's a children's disease clinic in the city of Zagreb. Her location is such that often parents come with children, leave a car that then takes a spider. At the 11th month, you were with the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, at the opening of the Intensive Care Department in Klaic. I am interested, therefore it is announced at which stage is the implementation of the project of building a national children's hospital, whether the location, capacity of the hospital and other details for creating a quality project task. Is there a possibility of agreeing with the local self-government unit, with the city of Zagreb at least as to the location and whether there is a defined way of funding since there are EU funds available for the construction of a national children's hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25948	Thank you. Dear Minister Milan Kujundzic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25949	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Dr. Celic. Thanks for asking. I think it is the strategic plan of this government, and what the prime minister recognized in the first few days and said loudly that a child hospital in Zagreb was passing through amongst our many needs in the health system. In fact, children are being treated now, I am talking about hospital conditions in several locations that have averaged the conditions infrequently modest and the decision is that what this government's obligation is to make a single children's hospital in Zagreb, not only to raise comforts and conditions for the treatment of children and their parents while they are with them to stay, but also because of the need for one place to gather staff and diagnostic and therapeutic tools that are necessary in this regard. And I have spoken with the prime minister several times with other members of the government but also with a number of people in Croatia, in this, no one hesitates that this should be a priority. The locations were considered, the ideal would be a conditional location for a university hospital in Blato, which, of course, crosses the need for a children's hospital because the assessment for a children's hospital should be about 50-academic thousands of square meters, but will be analysed with the city of Zagreb and of course with the Croatian government and with you all here where I believe that no one will be against, for other things we can politically have different opinions, but I believe that when it comes to a unique child hospital there will be no opposite opinions. So consider the existing location and part of the construction of rough cities in the site in Blato where there are certain thermal sources or several other locations in Zagreb that are potentially coming, which would now be said hastily. With regard to financial resources, this is a well-opened inquiry, there are significant resources that could be taken from the eu funds, of course it will not be enough in itself, but I think that what I said by accident not planning this inquiry, that some things simply a living generation now will have to take over our obligation and find the means to make one such hospital. And I believe in what we are now preparing so that we can be ready with the projects by the end of the year, and then depending on which location we start working next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25950	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25951	I thank the Minister for his reply. I believe that your determination, as well as your availability by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, will indeed contribute to the fact that sometimes it seems to me that the idea of reforms related to health and health policy as well as you have mentioned, so health policies should have an extra-party dimension, and I believe that we will all agree together and a national consensus that the real construction of a national children's hospital is a priority in improving health care standards for the most vulnerable part of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25952	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. This question refers to something we have already had the opportunity to discuss in this respected home. And what's this about? So even at the time when the prime minister spoke about the government's programme, and beyond that, we had the opportunity to hear that there would be a reform regardless of the corny word, and regarding how the ministry would function, where the state secretary would be appointed and the directors of individual administrations. We are witnessing that the secretary of state was appointed and what we had the opportunity to say about what we were talking about, that there will certainly be two to three State Secretarys, and that is done. However, we are still witnessing that ministerial assistants are appointed at the cabinet meeting, which I have to admit in part and understand because you have to be operational, administrations must have a head of the people to be appointed. However, it has been announced, a lot has been discussed in this distinguished House that it will be directors of the administration, that it will be a public tender and that we will soon get the law to which it will be defined. I looked at the websites a little bit, and I didn't see that the law was in preparation, so I was wondering if it gave up, if it would remain as it had been before, so we'd have two levels of state officials State Secretary and Assistants, or if it might have been released for some other time, even though it was said here that it would be immediately? I understand that it was not possible at the time when the ministers were appointed, or when the law was being amended, but I think the time has come if it is so that we really do so because we will have assistants and we will have a certain problem that will also be felt on the budget of our country, so I ask the Prime Minister to answer in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25954	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25955	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Mrak Taritash, it is true that we have discussed this, but we have made it clear after two years of government work. Why am I saying that? So now you're like me in Lisinski the other day. We said this very clearly, it was an agreement between the MOST and HDZ, we want the professionalisation of the state administration, we want the management level of ministerial assistants to be people who come there in public competition, who can also be employees of that ministry who can also be potential employees outside the state administration system, but with qualifications, that is what is most important and most important. On the other hand, you can see that we are very rational in the number of state secretaries, the criteria that I said at the time, and you see it in the system of all ministries is the criterion of functionality. There's not a single secretary of state who doesn't have a single ministry's specific jurisdiction in his portfolio, no ministry will have more than three, let them have two, some have only one at the moment. I think we're showing responsibility on that side. And as far as the new law is concerned, it is part of the activity done by the Minister of Administration and the Deputy Prime Minister in the context of a public administration reform action plan which, as you well know, will make a number of reforms in many aspects of the quality of public administration functioning at the central level, either at the level of units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, there is no giving up, for the normal functioning of the ministries you need the level of assistants or directors regardless of what they are called, when the matter is consolidated and when we are ready, we would do so on purpose in the middle of the mandate to bring in people with professional references and then I believe that this system would clearly divide political levels, so ministers and state secretaries would circle through me and stabilise the work of the state administration and strengthen the institutions of the Croatian state. That's the point, and that's the point, and we're not going to step down on that goal, and that's how we agreed and manifested ourselves. We never said it would be right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25956	Thank you. Honorable representative of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it is absolutely clear in the response the prime minister gave the following: we now have assistants who are officials and then in the middle of the mandate we will have an amendment and an addition to the law where we will have directors. Officials, assistants leave together when the ministers leave, and the directors stay, they are employees and stay on. So a very interesting model that we have already seen and which has proved to be not very efficient but let's wait until the middle of the mandate and see what's really going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25958	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Vlatko Kopic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25959	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected members of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I refer my question to Ministers of Science and Education Professor Barisic. The Programme for the Development of the Professional Education and Training System for the period from 2016 to 2020 as well as the associated Action Plan adopted at the end of 2016 provides for the development of new professional curricula based on standards of occupation and qualifications. The basic emphasis is put on the flexibility of school curricula which will be able to respond to the real needs of the labour market and the changes and innovation required by individual sectors. I'm interested in what the Ministry of Science and Education plans to undertake in terms of modernising vocational education and more effective integration of vocational education with the labour market?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25960	Thank you. The respected minister, Pavo Barisic, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25961	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, distinguished and respected representative Dr. Kopic, thank you very much for your question. I would start with the state of vocational education in the Republic of Croatia as the most represented under secondary education. We have in the Republic of Croatia over 70%, somewhere 71% of secondary education related to vocational education. I stress that the European average, or the EU average, is around 49% somewhere. So in our system, vocational education is very much represented and it is very important but we must certainly start from that it is quite outdated and that, in particular, current curriculas within vocational education are quite outdated, that they need to be modernised and innovative and, in that sense, the adoption of this programme and action plan at the end of the year is a good starting point, a good guess from which we will start and to which we will upgrade several basic measures. I'd like to mention five key ones here. The right is that we will try to improve the model of learning in jobs. One attempt to introduce a combined dual model model model for successful neighbouring Central European countries that have developed this and have very successful economies I will single out only Austria, Germany, Switzerland that have offered us their models and with which we will together, this year at least one or two schools as a project pilot, start exactly that model. The second measure is particularly important to promote vocational education as the first choice and to raise the attractiveness of vocational education. So from these figures that I have cited, we do not lack the representation of vocational education. What is missing is that students opt for it as a first choice and there is a very important aspect within this programme. The third is to improve the system of professional improvement of teachers who will implement these programmes. The fourth is improving and ensuring the quality of vocational education. And the fifth measure that is particularly important is to increase the mobility and employability of students who are in vocational education. There I would also add another figure that is that within the EU, the employability of students who graduate from vocational education is about 70% and in the Republic of Croatia is about 48% which needs to be raised. I would like to add that by adopting this programme and the action plan, we have removed the suspension from the withdrawal of funds from two European funds, the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund of 85m euros and 63m euros. So a total of 148m euros is available with funding from the state budget to implement these measures, so a total of 1 billion 110m and we will work together with other ministries, especially the Ministry of Tourism and others to develop professional education in certain areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25962	Thank you. Dear Representative Vlatko Kopić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25963	Here's my thanks to Mr. Minister for everything said here, and I'm happy with the further answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25964	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Ana-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25965	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I in front of the HSS Club has a question for the president of the Croatian government, Mr. Plenkovic, and the question is who in the government decides to sell national property and does there have any unity about it? Namely, I will refer to the statement by our President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Petrov, which he gave yesterday on Croatian Radio, which you did not deny as prime minister. And the statement says he's trying to push the initiative to sell forests and water. Since the most responsible people from the HDZ are sitting in the Croatian government as well as the Most High Government, and you are as prime minister responsible for the Croatian government, I ask if this statement is true. Because if the President of the Croatian Parliament says something like that, then surely such a statement has its weight. And then the initiative to sell forests and water could only come from the HDZ ranks. So I ask you unequivocally to say whether such an initiative or idea came from any member of your government, because I believe that you as the most responsible person in the state know everything about the plans of your ministers and that certainly none of them would work behind your back. If you clearly guarantee that there is nothing to be afraid of and that you will not sell out Croatian natural resources and Croatian resources, then this is about a re-spin that wants to bring unrest, and a particular party to portray itself as the only moral vertical and protector of national interests. We know that the Croatian Peasant Party has always opposed the sale of companies of strategic national importance as well as special water and forest, and we have also advocated the ban on selling agricultural land to foreigners on a certain deadline. And since INA sold now plans to privatise HEP. Are the Croatian Parliament President's statements correct, so now it's time and the sale of Croatian waters and forests or those are just the flat-rate statements of your coalition partner. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25966	Thank you very much. The Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25967	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Petin, you are the representative of the Croatian Peasant Party, the sister party of the Croatian Democratic Union. I congratulate you on your selection of new leadership this weekend. I believe that in time, you will surely restore your belonging to the ideas of the political family in which we participate together. On your question and reference to the statements of the President of the Croatian Parliament, I suggest you ask him specifically for this clarification. What I can tell you is the very clear attitude we've been talking about all morning. So I believe that there is a broad political consensus of all actors on our stage who want INA back in Croatian hands. I think it is a step that we all agree on, and we especially agree on MOST and the Croatian Democratic Community as the main partners in this government, and here we have a full consensus. When it comes to the model of how to get the funds to buy MOL's stake in INA without a public debt, I repeat another model of HEP's initial public offering from the analysis available to me and a number of expert opinions on this subject have never seen a more efficient and realistic model to implement. So what we want is a full control of both companies. So both INA and HEP from the Croatian state to the border that guarantees us both management rights and other aspects that the owner can have in some society, which is strategic societies in the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 52 is quite clear on how natural resources are protected and why they are under special protection and constitutional category. In addition, paragraph 2 of that article states that all these topics can be regulated by law. That's what I stand for. I think the founder deliberately predicted it and in some way delegated the powers of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, once again, I will underline there is no reason why you as HSS, a party that takes care of the Croatian village, Croatian agriculture, agricultural land, do not participate in the dialogue. I am convinced that with the Minister of Agriculture you will make a great contribution to the upcoming debate on the new Agricultural Land Act, which will be a reference for the Croatian village and part of our project Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25968	Thank you. Honorable representative of Anna-Marie Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25969	I thank you for your congratulations on my new function. Well, I'm glad we agree on the sale, that is, the non-sales of the catch forests and the catchwaters. Of course, as a party, we will make our contribution to the new Agricultural Land Act. I only ask you, such statements by the President of the Croatian Parliament, so your coalition partner has a certain weight to say. I ask you to fence around such things in the future because they bring unrest and simply give the wrong picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25970	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25971	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Mrs. Žalac. In fact, you are probably aware that many cities and municipalities have the need to build social infrastructure facilities, the need to build nursing homes. Of course, we look forward to building kindergartens, new schools, as well as firehouses, hospices. We also know that from European funds so far it is possible to build such facilities only in settlements of up to 5,000 inhabitants, which provides for a rural development programme. All others are not covered and cannot be financed from such funds. For example, my city, the city of Vodice, has a great need to build a nursing home. We also have sweet concerns with the accommodation of children in kindergarten, so we have made all the project documentation for the construction of a new kindergarten, but it is not possible at the moment. Surely there are even greater needs in those areas where there are frequent evictions, where we are witnessing that we have fewer and fewer residents. My question to you what does the ministry do when we can expect such facilities in these settlements to be financed by European means?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25972	The Honorable Minister Gabriela Žalac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25973	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, respected MPs Martinchev. Here, if you'll excuse me for a moment, that's the problem you're having with the operational programme's competitiveness of cohesion. What you asked, my information from the field that I've been visiting all the districts I've visited so far, is the cities that you've asked. It is the financing of just building or building school facilities and school sports halls, as well as kindergartens that can currently be financed by colleagues Tolusic in the rural development programme but only 5,000 inhabitants. And also to the hospice, unfortunately in programming, we absolutely did not include this kind of funding option in the operational programme. It is a major failure that we will certainly correct with changes to the operational programme that we will start in cooperation with all resolutions in this year, so with all ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and also according to information on projects that we have almost and prepared documentation on the ground. What I want to say is that we will redefine what we have right and without changing the operational programme into projects that are finished and ready with documentation versus those that are not done that can wait quite a while for 2020. As for the amendment of the operational programme, we will certainly have these talks in cooperation with the European Commission next week. What I would just like to point out is that regardless of this problem that you've highlighted here, we have to say that here's how the current funding is, we've certainly released energy recovery in cooperation with the Ministry of Construction a competition concerning schools and the restoration of public buildings owned by local self-government units. And as for healthcare, I mean primary health care and emergency medical care, that's something we'll be negotiating by the end of February 623 million kuna from the Operational Programme Competitiveness of Cohesion, but it is for the daily hospitals and surgery in agreement with Minister Kujundzic. However, here is social care also deinstitutionalisation, but the homes for the old and powerless at this point cannot, for this reason we will surely change the operational programme to ensure that by 2020 we meet the requirements that we have from the ground at the end and finance from the Operational Programme the competitiveness of cohesion, to spend as little resources from the state budget as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25974	Thank you. Dear representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25975	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the answer because it is really acceptable for European funds to exist, we are quite called to use them on the one hand, and on the other hand we have projects that have all the necessary documentation but because of the failure that in 2014 and 2015 is not well negotiated because it has simply forgotten about settlements and such facilities that we are not yet able to finance it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25976	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Today's question will be referred to the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Butkovic. The Honorable Ministers of the Croatian Parliament made a decision seven months ago and gave a state guarantee for the loan of Croatian Water to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which means that HAC was unable to meet its financial obligations, and that the state was guaranteed these commitments so that there would be no unsettling obligation to carry out the budget provided a new EUR 250m loan for the settlement of the commitments made and for the restructuring of HAC&SONS. I do not think that this partial borrowing for the settlement of the commitments is in any way a long term good for the liquidity of any society, and the problems of HAC liquidity and the highways of Rijeka-Zagreb and Croatian roads are a huge burden both for these societies, but surely one potential threat to the stability of our state budget and we cannot even partially solve such important problems. We know that Milanovic's government in the previous session went to monetize Croatian highways, but because of the high public pressure it gave up, it separated HAC's HAC&SONS company, which today is dealing with difficulties and losses, and you announced in the past government that you will fully address this problem of restructuring companies in the road sector and financial problem, and that you are conducting intensive negotiations with international credit institutions. So my question would be, how are the negotiations with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on road restructuring? How much is the total debt of the entire sector, how much has the debt reached in this year 2017 on payment and, of course, how do we plan to settle it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25978	Thank you. The respected Minister Oleg Butkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25979	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, Mr. Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. You said a lot in your question, that's one big problem. In this particular year 2017, 2018, 2019, most of the debt in the toll sector comes to us. The total debt is 5.2 billion euros, the total debt of the entire cesarean sector, is only the principal of the debt, and in 2017 comes at a charge of 1 billion, about 1 billion and 100 million euros when we include the principal and the interest that comes to us in 2017. State of debt by society, I will briefly tell you the amount in Croatian roads, the state of duty on 31.12.2016 is 9 billion and 809 million 189 thousand and 34 kuna. In the Croatian highways, the status of duty on 31.12.2016 is 23 billion 271 million 942 thousand and 320 kuna and in the Rijeka-Zagreb highway on 31.12.2016. the debt is 877 I apologize 6 billion 598 million and 733 thousand 167 kuna. Following a failed attempt to monetise or give in the concession of Croatian highways, including the Rijeka-Zagreb Highway and after a failed attempt to privatise what the citizens said at a referendum on what they think about it, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has gone to a full solution to this problem and the aim is to restructure the existing debt of all these companies in order to optimise the share of the existing debt that the sector can serve from its own sources, gradually reduce the level of annual debt in a way to limit the impact on the public finances sector and reduce the scope in which the future or existing debt of these companies was guaranteed by the state. It's so-called. the use of which you have also spoken or activated state guarantees. By the end of this month, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be referred a letter of sectoral policy containing the main areas of restructuring of the entire meaning of business and financial restructuring of the entire road infrastructure sector as well as the necessary activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with all those companies, should be implemented in order to implement this restructuring and to implement it. After the adoption of the sector policy letter, negotiations with the World Bank on a loan contract are on the move, and the whole package should be completed sometime from June this year. These days, a contract will also be signed with a financial adviser tasked with developing a funding and reprogramming strategy of huge debt, he will examine the needs of the capital market and give recommendations and guidelines to the Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Resoring Ministry of the Sea, transport, infrastructure in which the ratio is refinanced and debt bonds and propose a solution to what part of the debt should be and could be reprogrammed for longer periods and at more favourable interest rates. I would also like to point out that negotiations are under way with the main competition administration of the European Commission and in order to confirm by the European Commission that the restructuring process does not contain elements of state aid. At the last meeting just allow, held in... which has been positive we expect both written response and support from the European Commission in this whole and complex process. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25980	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25981	Thank you very much, Minister, for your response, and I am pleased that the Government has access to the entire model of solving this problem in a functional and financial sense. But I think that you are aware of how much this problem raises public interest, so I suggest that when you have a draft but, above all, we call on all stakeholders, experts, trade unions, interested public, and we discuss this problem and make one point that will certainly give one good direction towards a final solution and that will certainly be a good basis for government and parliament decisions and for you to further negotiate and conclude a contract with potential investors. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25982	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25983	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is for the Deputy Prime Minister of the Administration of Mr Kovacic. To date, we have over 180 agencies, institutes and funds and other forms of legal entities with public authority and which spend billions of kuna annually and the employment of tens of thousands of people. The problem is that there is no clearly defined criterion for the establishment of these agencies as well as for the identification of their jobs, and thus we also come to the conclusion that the coefficient of the complexity of the business for the account of their salaries is not uniform with the public and state administration bodies. To make the problem worse and worse, it is these agencies that are self-determining and bringing various parafiscal burdens for both entrepreneurs and citizens. So my question is do you intend to do something about this very problematic situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25984	Thank you. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister Ivan Kovacic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, that the rationalisation of the agency's system is one of the measures of the public administration reform action plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the 12th month of last year and the public administration strategy for the period 2015-2020. A year. With the development of this measure to reduce the number... of the agency in the Republic of Croatia whether it is a shut-down of a particular agency, whether it is a merger of two or more agencies or that it is a merger of a particular agency with the central authorities of the state administration in fact with the resolution ministry. All this will be done safely in cooperation and coordination with the restoring ministries, taking care of, of course, EU directives from pre-accession negotiations. Of course, these directives from pre-accession negotiations have been negotiated to manipulate them for a little while over the last few years, so that when certain agencies were set up, they were invited to EU directives, even though the instructions on the need to set up these agencies were not real. As far as the work of the Ministry of Administration itself is concerned, the Ministry of Administration is preparing a unique and complete and systematic Act on Agencyes. In fact, which will provide clear criteria for setting up new agencies to give criteria precisely and for the work of existing agencies for their managing bodies, for responsibility, for monitoring their work, for employee status and their salaries, etc. By adopting such a law, the single Agency Act would prevent the unfounded establishment of new agencies in the Republic of Croatia. It would be introduced into the work of existing agencies, and I think that this could also regulate the system and create preconditions for reducing the number the public expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25986	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25987	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Prime Minister, last time I asked you when you'd be relieved of your post as Minister of plagiarism. You stood in his defense despite evidence and the fact that he himself confessed to plagiarizing a few days before my question. Meanwhile, the Committee on Ethics in Science also found his guilt. Croatian voice scientist Ivan Djikic sent a statement with documents suggesting an expanded practice of plagiarisation and unethical actions he found in Mr Barisic's scientific work. All the documents were sent to you in person a few days ago, and to the President of the Parliament, Mr Petrov. The public also has a chance to study Mr. Djikić's views, which in 9 points explained very closely what you do not want to see. Since the minister doesn't have enough honesty to resign, will you resolve him? In fact, when are you going to get rid of him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25988	Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25989	Thank you very much, Vice President, thank you, Reverend Tomic. Did you read the review article of Minister Barisic... any variant, any of the published versions in any journal domestic or international. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I don't know if it is, but I suggest you read it. I studied this article in detail, studied the methodology of writing this article, saw how much footnote exists in that original text published in the magazine in 2008. When a person writes a scientific article, he usually puts into footnote arguments that explain one of his thesis or cites the sources and the thesis of other authors about a particular problem. That's the point of footnote. All other footnotes have reference to the source of individual thoughts and individual ideas except for one in that article which the minister, then a scientist, author, and today a scientist and author have noticed before anyone in any instance initiated any process of verifying or verifying the alleged quoting of any other author and without stating the source. This article was then published in several international magazines with correct and correct quotations or references to the source. The minister gave very clear explanations on this. I think that despite the fact that there is an obvious opposition in the public to one part of the academic community with another part of scientists in the academic community, the issue of one small reference in one footnote today has been raised to the level of human, scientific, political, moral integrity of Professor Pave Barisic. I know him. I trusted him to be a member of this government. He has experience in the work of the ministry he deals with, he has important tasks to carry out. It is about a resort that is important for the Croatian future, for our competitiveness, for our children, for new generations. What he's been doing for the past three months, working hard, working hard, working with his heart, wants to contribute to Croatia after a number of other jobs he's done in his life. I wouldn't want one of those little ones to want to know whether she's a printer or some other mistake to do personal harm to him, to contribute to the destabilising and functioning of the government. As far as I'm concerned, he won't, and I'm telling you very clearly and very responsiblely because I know him. I watched him in various European engagements where he enjoys respect, the trust of many colleagues. I think this problem is completely overcharged. I don't want to get into the motives and interests of political parties, they can understand. As far as people in the academic community are concerned, they can understand that, but if a number of committees at both the University of Split and the University of Zagreb have decided and clearly decided on the subject. I don't see why for years after the publication of that first version of the article, we would have such a big debate on a subject that I believe is too exposed in public and that doesn't deserve this much time, not this much time, not this much energy to deal with. I expect Minister Barisic to deal with priority topics, which is an educational reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25990	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25991	This topic deserves the attention of the Croatian public for several reasons. The first thing you've stopped is a reform of education thinking that education is as perfect as it is, and I can see from these words why you think it's perfect, because your copy paste method in schools is acceptable. You asked me if I read the text, but it's better if you read the documents Mr. Djikic sent you, obviously you didn't. Because if you'd read those documents, those nine things would have stabbed you in the eye at least one of those nine facts. Here's one thing I'm going to tell you, the work written in 2007 pointed to irregularities, the press error as you say is a quote later from 2008. I mean, that's really amazing. But I will finish this topic with one question asked by Professor Djikic. How will you feel or any of your parents when they ask their child during Sunday lunch, how was school this week? Okay, I wrote two essays, it was easy to get five. What did you write about? I don't know, we use Wikipedia copy paste at school, and I don't get to study the subject at all because we copy fast. Is this the method we want for Croatian children? According to HDZ, it's obvious that because of you, and history has shown the right of less educated citizens because they are mostly your voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25992	Thank you very much. You're my friend Tomic, I hope you're aware that what you just said has offended tens and tens of thousands of people. I hope you're aware of that. But let's move on to questions. The next question is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Gar Capelli. In the pre-election economic programme of the HDZ, one of the points of the economic programme was the implementation of the so-called CRO cards. After the HDZ election victory, the CRO card project was included in the Croatian government's economic programme in the tourism segment. Several goals have been outlined through the development of this project, and some of them are improving the tourist offer mainly on the continent, extending the tourist season on the coast and coast, reducing the imbalances of tourism traffic in the Republic of Croatia 98% of tourism traffic is taking place on the coast, and only 2% on the continent, 50% on the city of Zagreb, and this remains on the rest of the continent. One of the goals was to allow travel and use vacations for a large number of Croatian citizens who do not go on vacation. I must remind myself that around two million Croatian citizens do not benefit from the benefits of travel and holidays for very notorious reasons, which are financial reasons. The very evolution of this project, which is in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour or our prominent consulting companies in tourism, has shown the exceptional potential of products, in many segments, for example in financial, economic, social, demographic and security. Mr. Minister, I wonder if the Ministry of Tourism is taking action on the very implementation of this project in the legal financial economic system because, because of the complexity of the project, the deadline that the ministry has set for it, which is the beginning of 2018, is a challenging deadline? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25995	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Gary Cappelli will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25996	Honorable Vice President, honourable parliamentary deputies and MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Kleman. Well, the question is well asked in terms of whether we will be able to prepare during 2017, so of course in this direction and Ministry of Tourism, but I say there is not only the Ministry of Tourism that has to make certain preparations, but together with a few ministries. The only thing that matters most is the Ministry of Finance and other ministries because this card is not only a project that is important for the Ministry of Tourism but it is also superior because this project is important for demographic, social and economic development in the Republic of Croatia. As you are well and he said is important especially for the continental part of the tourism that is accomplishing at this point only maybe 2% on average in that Croatian cake if we can tell the tourist, which is here somewhere in the first nine months reached 9.5 billion euros in income. This means three months practically before the end of the tourist year in the 11th and 12th months Croatian tourism records about 30% increase in the meaning of the 11th and 12th months, which is the first time in Croatian tourism history that these figures are. These are signals that the tourist product has become important and that there is a tourist year, not only tourist season, and that the Croatian tourist product has become highly competitive and important beyond that peak of the tourist season and that we are practically able to reach Croatia's tourism development strategy by 2020 at around 14.2 billion euros. In order to achieve this, one of the important projects will be exactly the CRO card for which we are preparing to boost safe traffic on the continent between 8 and 10%, which would certainly be around 60%, and not only on the continent, but we speak both outside the tourist season and in the tourist resorts on the coast, so it would certainly start the economy, and in a few years it would be around 10 to 12 thousand new jobs. So this is a comprehensive and very precise preparation that is under way because one project that is horizontal is therefore requiring more influence from several ministries that will certainly be completed by the end of this year and bring in some way an extension of the tourist season that I have said, records excellent data both in the 11th and 12th months. So the point is to strengthen tourism traffic on the continent and all that it can bring and of course that the important and demographic vision that we have on the continent, which is as little emigration of young people as possible and the possibility of additional employment. We also expect benefit in the agricultural section, which is in the OPGs especially on the continent, which will certainly be revived by strengthening tourism traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25997	Thank you. Honorable representative Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25998	Here, Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your answer. Here I would like to just once again encourage you and your colleagues in the government to exploit the potential of the government, to exploit the potential of all ministries that should be interested in the implementation and development of this valuable and significant project in the economic sense of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in tourism. So I invite you to really in some way press your colleagues to carry out this year's preparations for the implementation to start really in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u25999	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26000	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I would like to focus on an extremely important economic issue and it concerns the company CIMOS. I would like to remind you that this company was founded or launched Mr Goran Maric, Minister of Property [[And the question is to whom?]] Although it's a matter in principle for the entire government. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] So the CIMOS plant was launched in the 70s, so we're talking about one company that has a tradition of almost half a century, it's located in Buzet, Roč today and Labin, working for the auto industry, so it's about the production of sophisticated parts of the automotive industry. That's when it started with the TPS group Peugeot, Citroen and Renault. After the acquisition of this TPS in Labin in 2000, this production or market also spread to Volkswagen, Audi or BMW when we talk about the production of car parts, especially brakes. Then we all know together that there is tolerance at fault 0 that you need an extremely professional and qualified workforce. The company today employs 1036 employees in Croatia, so in Istria plants Buzet, Roč and Labin it is directly employed, we still have about 300 co-operatives. The company that has an annual income of more than 412 million kuna, 100% export-oriented, the company that provides HEP with income from electricity sales somewhere around 82 million kunas, i.e. 52 million kunas, and I apologize to domestic co-operatives about 82. So my question is, although it could be addressed to the entire government, Mr. Maric has been involved from the beginning in the interest at which stage the process of taking over CIMOS, which the government plans to do in order to ensure a smooth continuation of production and preservation of jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26001	Thank you. The respected Minister Goran Maric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26002	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Miletic, I confirm that I have insight into the history of this topic. Unfortunately, this case has been going on for years, it dates back to 1994 and has been completely abandoned on the Croatian side for 16 years. In fact, let's just remind a little bit of history so that we can understand the subject better. This came from the CIMOS debt of Koper 20m euros based on a loan to Rijeka Bank, when the Rijeka Bank bankrupted the State Agency for Rehabilitation, for the insurance of harmful roles and recovery of banks took over those claims and in agreement with CIMOS they formed an agreement to establish a joint venture in Buzet CIMOS Croatia to bring Croatia 20m kuna into core capital. And this was done by the Croatian side, however, the Slovenian side did not enter the properties it needed and 26% of the CIMOS International Koper shares that were introduced immediately and returned. So by 2015, the Slovenian side has not fulfilled any of its obligations under the agreement for 16 years. The truth is that neither Croatia has taken any active action to fulfil the obligations of the Slovenian party. This only started with my engagement in 2015 when we extended the deadline for meeting the obligations under the agreement and asked the Slovenian side to join the fulfillment of the agreement under threat of lawsuit. We did not get an answer at all from the Slovenian side or on several calls they did not want to respond or respond to meetings. It was only after the lawsuit was filed that they answered and the talks began. We have also informed the DORH of the illegal book of real estate in the territory of Croatia. A note was made on these properties and in 2016 a first active reaction by the Slovenian parties appeared through Italian investors to purchase claims from the state agency for the insurance of savings deposits and the recovery of banks. But that offer was really humiliating and offensive. It wasn't an offer that was an insult. However, the most important thing for us was to always leave room for negotiations to preserve the work of 1030 workers you mentioned. And the first sign was sent only a few days ago from Croatia, on the Slovenian side when the offer was amended and which gives hope to end these negotiations. In this regard, talks with the Slovenian Ambassador to Croatia were also opened. I had personal conversations on the subject and made contact with the Minister of Economy of the Republic of Slovenia Mr. Počivalšek who also announced his arrival in Zagreb so that we could finally start talking on the subject after 16 years. We have directed all the patience and understanding we have had all these years for the ultimate agreed solution. This is a good sign, and I believe that in the next few weeks after the meetings already agreed with the Slovenian side, a final agreement will be reached to maintain production and all full employment that is currently in CIMOS Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26003	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26004	I thank you for your answer. Yes, it is 1036 employees in Croatia with the goal and plan to expand the production by another 168 employees. But what I want to point out is that many countries are trying to attract new investments with different laws and incentives aimed at producing, in particular, exports and job creation. In this case, it is, therefore, an existing company with a long tradition, with an exceptional knowledge of how, with exceptional quality labour and what is very important in the secured market, i.e. the guaranteed future. When I talk about this company, Cimos is in Buzet because he employs eight hundred employees. If I tell you that the city of Buzet has a total of 2880 employees, then it's very simple to leave the ratio. We'll see that it's 28% of all employees. I don't want to imagine what would have happened to that city and that area if that company hadn't let God go bankrupt, then neither would the state have charged its claims. And what's much, much worse these people, their families and suppliers would lose their jobs and it's also the mountain-mounted area, then we all know together how important it is. So my appeal is, above all, thanks for the engagement so far and for the appeal to try this problem of an existing debt that no one disputes to look dynamically. What does that mean through perspective in the future? Therefore, retaining employment, production and export, not exclusively static to ensure, first of all, the continuation of the production of a successful company, the production of knowledge that has been accumulated there and exports. And my proposal can include members of local self-government primarily, so the city of Buzet and Istrian County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26005	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26006	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow representatives, members of the government. My question is for the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs of Mr Davor Ivo Stier. What Croatian diplomacy and government are doing to support and accelerate the Euro-Atlantic path of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the rest of Southeast Europe. In fact, the EU and NATO at the border of Croatia and BiH share over 1,000km of borders and that is the longest limit of one member of the EU, one non-member. Unfortunately, despite the huge military, political and financial assistance of the International Community for the past 20 years, BiH has not yet become a stable and only sustainable state. In particular, the political subjectivity of the Croatian people in BiH has been compromised, mainly due to the imposed revisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the electoral law carried out by these audits of the Constitution itself. Again in BiH, political paradigms that were present in the evening of independence and the outbreak of war in BiH are reviving Serbia's separatism and high-level unitarism that feed one another, deepening divisions in BiH, destabilising BiH, blocking development and blocking its path towards Euro-Atlantic integration. In doing so, these processes are influenced by some outside centres that do not care about these Euro-Atlantic integrations, as they reduce their influence and reduce their geopolitical ambitions on the territory of Southeast Europe. In the midst of this, Croatia's policy favours the overall BiH, but decentralisation, federalism and EU and NATO members. I believe that the Euro-Atlantic integrations of BiH and Southeast Europe are the way to peace and stability and South-East Europe and the entire European Community I also believe that they can be a generator for internal changes in stability in BiH. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26007	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Ivo Stier will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26008	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, distinguished MPs and MPs, distinguished Mr. Bozo Ljubic Croatia supports all reforms that countries in Southeast Europe are in the accession process or have ambition to get closer to the EU, those who want to implement it to NATO as well. It is precisely because we believe that in these reforms there is an additional value for efficiency, for better functioning, for the legal security of these countries, for the entire area of Southeast Europe, and that is then also in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in the interest and security of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, both the European route and the Euro-Atlantic route, BiH provides a good framework to resolve, to raise open issues, to launch certain reforms that are extremely important for Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, and of course for the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The electoral law is one of these items, one of the key reforms expected in 2017, which is a prerequisite for the further approximation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As you know, today's Electoral Law, unfortunately, allows for the discrimination of both citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are not members of the constituent peoples, but also discriminates and Croats as a constituent people because it enables other people to choose their representatives for the Croats. It is actually a succession of judgments and the European Court of Justice in the case of Sejdic Finci, as well as the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina from 1 December of last year, which was also adopted by you, or on the basis of your appeal. Croatian diplomacy has just focused on this key reform. You saw that for the first time at the United Nations Security Council in an annual debate on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina following a report by the High Representative that EU Ambassador, Ambassador Almeida stressed the need for reform of the electoral law, but also respecting the principle of equality between three constituent peoples and all citizens of BiH. You saw that EU foreign ministers also held a meeting of the General Affairs Council in December last year also for the first time pointed out that electoral law should be amended, but respecting the principle that Croats, Bosniaks and Serbs must be equal, precisely respecting the fact that Croats today, and as the BiH Constitutional Court has argued, are not in an equal position. As for other key reforms, of course we also support them. In December, we closed an open issue which was on BiH's path to the EU, as was the adaptation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so the special protocol also introduced BiH's traditional volume of trade with the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, means by reducing customs competitiveness of Croatian and European products on the BiH market, something that has long been discussed and has been resolved in December of last year. In a concrete technical sense, Croatia supports and fulfils questionnaires bilaterally with other Member States and at the end of this week we will also have at the level of the BiH Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs in Zagreb already preparing for a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers where we will discuss all other bilateral topics, including on the agenda and the Agreement on European Co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26009	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26010	Mr. Minister, I thank you for your response, and I thank you even more in the way in which the Croatian government and Croatian diplomacy led by President Plenkovic and you refer to the Eurointegration of BiH and the rest of the region, as well as in this solution to the Croatian issue in BiH, because I believe that this is also the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. So a stable region of Southeast Europe, and it will hardly be without the involvement of this region in Euro-Atlantic integration. As I have mentioned in the issue, there is still a strong international impact in BiH on the presence of foreign judges at the BiH Constitutional Court in the institution of the Office of the High Representative, hence the OHR, who has the mandate of the UN Security Council. and therefore I ask you to continue to explain the situation in BiH to your partners and the EU, to the international community and thus to contribute to the internal stability of BiH and the region. It is therefore extremely important that the decisions of the relevant courts are implemented in the course of this year when it comes to the electoral law, first of all I am referring to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on the election of members of the BiH presidency, the Constitutional Court of BiH on the basis of my appeal as regards the choice of the home of the people, the Federation of BiH and of course... Constitutional court when it comes to the city of Mostar. The enforcement of these judgments will in an appropriate way contribute to the harmonisation of the institutional relationship between the three constituent peoples of BiH, certainly deepen the trust between the citizens and the people of BiH and allow us to devote ourselves to... the development of Euro-Atlantic integration and, of course, I welcome it and I am glad to hear that Croatia has joined in helping BiH to meet the questionnaire, to create conditions for meeting EU candidate status for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26011	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26012	Mr. Prime Minister, in the draft Law on Changes and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, a discriminatory provision on mandatory medical examination for drivers over 65 years of age is being re-installed when the driving licence is extended. The applicant incorrectly states the need for urgent harmonisation of Croatian national legislation with the numbered European directives, none of which relate to the conditions for the extension of the driver's licence but to the technical regularity of the vehicle, the regulation of the car's school and the like. The applicant describes in an offensive manner the reduction in the ability to drive and in a discriminatory way that links it to the age of life, illness and the need for health examination. The MUP statistics show that the main culprits for traffic accidents are speed, alcohol and drug abuse, and lack of experience, not years of life. There are no relevant breakdowns and analysis of statistics. Oreshkovic's government supported an accelerated increase in the working age to 67 years, so how can we expect people to be able to work longer, and we don't expect them to be able to drive a personal car? Also, how did the legislator without any parameters determine that a person becomes less capable of driving on his 65th birthday? Available MUP statistics tell us that older than 65 years are not a risk group because most of the crimes and crimes committed in road traffic have been committed by under 65 years, those aged 15 to 34 have caused more than 35% of accidents and 10% of drivers over 65 years of age participate in 8.5% of accidents. My question is, who needs laws like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26013	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26014	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Hrelja, Minister Orepić is not with us today, he will show himself in writing to you on this subject. As far as I know, it is only the thematics that are in the public debate and the new law in the context of harmonisation with EU directives. I think that's a question that we have to take in a thorough account of both the costs and the time that third-aged people should take when it comes to these checks. In any case, we are open to discussion and to your suggestions, and the minister will appear to you in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26015	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26016	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I would be very happy to have such a procedure because I believe that psychophysical health and driving hazards are extremely individual categories and must not be generalised. European practices vary even though they allow age-related restrictions. In Denmark, the driver’s license is renewed after 70 years to 5 years without medical examination, after 70 years without medical examination in Britain, but every 3 years the driver’s personal statement and in Finland after 70 years of renewal depends on the family doctor while in Germany, France and Belgium there is no age limit. So to conclude, pensioners are not against medical examinations but this should be done by a family doctor who has an insight into the full health condition of a patient without compensation, not by costing them an average pension. The pensioners are above all to increase road safety and this is not a matter of form but content for them. We believe that the provisions of the existing law in this context are good and long-term acceptable even to those who think that age will never come to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26017	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Prime Minister and all present ministers. I would have a question for Mr. Kuštević's construction minister. Mr. Ministers of your Ministry announced on 17 October 2016 a call for the energy reconstruction of several residential buildings that closed 16.1. means yesterday, and in the media I read that the deadline for the application was extended to 31.1. this year. So I'm interested in why, what are the problems and why is this extension? And the second question I'm interested in is, what about the energy reconstruction of the buildings? When will EU funds begin to be used for this purpose? And especially if these funds can include fire departments of voluntary fire departments and public fire departments that would by all criteria... because they have 24 hours of duty, means permanent work and are in poor condition so we see a chance that they can make these, arrange those buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26019	Thank you. The respected Minister Lovro Kuščević will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26020	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Sanader, thank you very much for asking. If you had noticed, there were two public calls for energy restoration in our buildings one for the educational and educational character where we had predicted 152 million kuna, and the other for multi-state buildings that should have been closed on 16th, but thank God we have a very great interest in our fellow citizens and businesses that deal with the housing so that we can process all the requirements in time, to evaluate them in quality and to allow for the completion of documentation for those who miss me extended that deadline to January 31st this year. I must say, and this is in the spirit of the government's efforts that this is the first time that the funds for this purpose are being used by EU funds rather than by more than national programmes, which will certainly improve and improve the image of the absorption of European funds into our Croatian budget. According to these two programmes, we expect to sign 500 contracts totalling 450 million kuna, until the end of this year. And that this will be said in favor of the fact that so far, only in this programme that we have extended has we approved 200 apps worth 300 million kuna. As for the energy reconstruction of buildings in the public sector, therefore, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has developed a programme, and here we have gathered the last consensus needed, unfortunately because of the new government, because of the new elections, we have to go back to collecting consent. I have just received information from yesterday that we have gathered the last consent, so in the next 15 days we expect that this programme will be in place at the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it will be adopted and that the call for tenders will begin. Under the programme, we have foreseen 211m euros, too, from all European funds. You understand when these amounts are summed up, that's about 311 million euros in grants. What this will mean for Croatian construction, for energy efficiency, so I would dare say for the better looks and views of our settlements, cities and villages. As far as firehouses are concerned, it is this program that I spoke about earlier in public buildings that will soon be in the session of the Croatian Government that provides for the energy restoration of all public buildings and so on as firehouses, of course, if they as well as all buildings that will apply meet the necessary conditions and these are standard conditions regarding ownership and achievement of a certain degree of savings. So the answer is positive, it will be possible to apply firehouses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26021	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26022	Here's my thanks, Mr. Minister, and I congratulate you on all the successes you've listed both yours and... The Governments of the Republic of Croatia and perhaps this would be a good way to extend as long as there is funding, so that you do not limit 31.1. That's the first one. And secondly, thank you for these firehouses. This is too important for us because a large number of homes have been built by our own means of voluntary fire companies and citizens, as well as a normal unit of local self-government, so that according to all norms they fall into it. And here I appeal to you and to the government to accept and to involve firefighters in this because you know what would be returned multiple times, or that firemen will, by their activities and by their work, justify these funds and the EU, and normally and the funds of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that will be at your disposal. I'm sorry that there is no Home Secretary, so he would still appeal and, yes, there is the prime minister, and he will hear it, to solve this problem, too, for the chief fire commander to return to Croatia's fire department as it was 140 years old and so the entire fire department will be in one place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26023	Thank you. The next question is asked by the distinguished representative Andro Krstulovic Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26024	Dear Mr. Vice President, I have a question for Minister of Labour and Pension System Dr. Tomislav Coric. We are witnessing that at the end of last year, a basis was raised for trade unions, for public service wages, and that's why the good news asked me to ask what was actually going on with the negotiations that the government started with its negotiating team and with the unions of civil servants and tenants. And what the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to do and intends to do in the coming period in order to further improve the social dialogue between this important segment of our society and the valuable employees who are building our country. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26025	Thank you. The respected minister Tomislav Coric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26026	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Krstulović Opara, and thank you for your question. At the very beginning of the answer to your question I also get to know respected representatives and the Croatian public with the circumstances we entered, which we entered into conversations with our social partners. Therefore, the base for salaries in public and state services in 2012 was changed for zero kuna, it remained the same. The Kukuriku government also increased the base for the 2013 salary account by zero kuna, so it remained the same. In 2014, the basis for the salary calculation you guessed remained the same, it was 5108.84 lipe. In 2015, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Government decided that Kukuriku had the basis for the calculation of salaries in public and state services remained the same, therefore unchanged. The government of the Republic of Croatia in talks with the social partners entered at the level of unchanged foundations. As for material rights, unfortunately we have a similar situation. Therefore, Christmas as one of the material rights, although agreed by a collective contract for civil servants and subsistences, which was in force by a legal act, i.e. by the Shorty Act, the remuneration of certain material rights from 2012 was abolished for 2012 and 2013. When I talk about 2014 then a regulation was adopted in 2013 which also abolished Christmas as a material law, and finally by the Law on the short payment of certain material rights to employees in public services in 2015, the contracted law for 2015. In such circumstances, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or its negotiating committee, entered into talks with our union partners. Our talks that lasted 12 months last year, i.e. that ended in 12 months 2016, did not bear fruit, i.e. the agreement with the Public Service Trade Unions was not reached. In view of the fact that the basic Collective Treaty for Public Service Trade Unions, i.e. for public service employees, lasts until 12.3.2017, the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to re-negotiate with trade unions in the next period of time on a new basic collective agreement. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia did on its own initiative was to raise the pay base in public services as of 1.1.2017 from 5108.84 June to 5211 kuna and 2 June, so for two percentage points. With this act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a clear message to representatives of the Public Service Trade Unions and public service workers to take care of them. She also sent a clear message by paying the Christmas Day for 2016 to take care of her employees both in public and state services. At the end of the answer, I would also like to emphasise the fact that the Government, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia's negotiating committee, with civil service unions, or state-owned deputies, has reached an agreement and since 1.1.11.2017 has increased the base by two percentage points with an obligation to further increase the base by two percentage points since 1.8.2017, and at last since 1.11.2017, increase the basis for state services by another two percentage points. This way I would like to stress our willingness and will that in a constructive dialogue with the representatives of the public services, we reach agreement on a new basic collective agreement and to create a social partnership which, unfortunately, for years, the merits of each other's government were not created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26027	Thank you. Dear Representative Andro Krstulović Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26028	... So the government's decision to increase the basis of an excellent pledge to finalize negotiations on a basic collective agreement, a truly fundamental document that will not only create a strong partnership as you have said, but also restore dignity to a number of people who work hard to build our society, our public services, and in this way, except that it will restore dignity and create a quality framework for further work, these numerous arguments that we hear too often, alleged arguments that we hear too often about people who are protected as face bears, that they can't be anything, that they are unemployed, that they are arrested. [[Specially enabled.]] That's what needs to be done. And the basic Collective Treaty which is the goal of your negotiation is definitely the best way to climate confidence and quality atmosphere in working to build our society is actually achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26029	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26030	Thank you, Vice President. I have a question for the prime minister. Namely, since the prime minister has informed the public that the President of the Republic has introduced him to the details of his trip to the United States, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if the president has received an invitation for an official invitation to the United States? I'd also like to ask why the public wasn't informed of this trip in advance. And I'd like to ask if the U.S. Ambassador welcomed the President when she arrived? It is mentioned in public that the US ambassador was on vacation for three weeks at a time when the President of the Republic of Croatia was in the United States. Given these facts, it is justified to ask whether the President of the Republic of Croatia visited the United States privately, officially or privately? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26031	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26032	Thank you very much. Dear Comrade Bunjac, you know that according to Article 113. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is governed by foreign policy, and in accordance with Article 99, it is co-operating with the President of the Republic in its design and implementation. I was aware that the President would visit the United States before she went, spoke with her after she returned from... from her visit. The question I think you didn't think about the U.S. Ambassador, but about the Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to the United States, it was based on the information I have from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs that informed the Ministry that he was coming to Zagreb for health reasons for members of his closest family, therefore he was justifiably absent from what I have. The president held talks with his associates at the time of the US administration's transition. I think she said enough herself in public what she was talking to and who she was talking to. When we take international activities and lead foreign policy and government, and the president is also responsible for what they do, they work in a way that is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Neither has a detailed view of the meetings been sought so far, nor has an insight into any invitational letters been sought. You can also visit on the basis of phone deals, this is a modern time, a time of rapid communication, the time of the call letters has passed. I wouldn't want the public to hunt too much for that. I think she's explained enough in public why she was in the U.S. for what reason. It was enough for me what she told me. The United States is the main global force, they are important for the Republic of Croatia, any contact and preparation of our relations with the future administration can only be useful because it is important for the overall global relations. So I'm concerned with the information I've received about her is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26033	Thank you. Honorable representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26034	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. So I'm not happy with your answer because I think people should be invited somewhere. Here we were all invited yesterday to a session of the Parliament, we had to confirm our arrival, also at committee meetings. I don't know if I'm allowed to attend a session of your government without a call. If you think it doesn't matter here, I'll be happy to join you next time. And I would also like to warn you that perhaps the president told you where she was going, but she is also my president, the president of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's her duty to tell all of us where she's going. Here to avoid thinking that I am malicious, I will tell you what your party colleague Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic said when President Josipovic went to the United States in 2014 and there met only with the vice president of the United States and not with the President. He said it was a gaff protocol, that it was a politically completely missed move and that such a meeting was below the level of what the Republic of Croatia currently represents internationally. It is incomprehensible that the president of the state can be allowed to be treated on such a low level in protocol on the American side. So these are your words or words that came from your party, and President Josipovic's visit to the United States compared to the visit of the President of the Republic of Croatia Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic was a major diplomatic success because this painting in front of the fences on the streets with Santa Claus really doesn't resemble the integrity of the institution of the President of the Republic of Croatia and it would be quite fair to expect someone to be removed because of this, if it isn't already an ambassador to the United States who, according to the media in Brussels, is on vacation with his wife, according to your claims on treatment in Croatia, I don't know, should be replaced by the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26035	Thank you. The next question is asked by the distinguished representative Ljubica Ambrusec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26036	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. President-in-Office of the government, ministers, ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to refer my question to Mr Tolusic, Minister of Agriculture. In fact, we all know that not so long ago, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the other government implemented an operational programme in agriculture and rural development. The implementation of the operational programme included the Croatian Agricultural Agency, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Advisory Service. In fact, we know that through the operational program in the Republic of Croatia a lot of good is produced by cattle farmers in such a way that they are done in an extremely modern way. As I was a participant in that part myself, I consider even pre-modern farms compared to other countries already in Europe. They thank the project because the state has really encouraged people to do it, but also people then have borrowed credit and over a very short period of time, so I believe, and this is also a question to Mr. Tolusic that quite a farm is mortgaged and a lot of farms are certainly not in operation, a lot of farms are abandoned. And my question is actually how to further shape those farms and how to move on to production, because we all know that one particular part was for the destruction of these farmers, and so was our village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26037	Thank you. Dear Minister Tomislav Tolusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26038	First of all, welcome to fellow parliamentary deputies, of course the prime minister, fellow ministers and ministers. Thank you for asking the question. As you have said, we have implemented operational programmes from 2004 to 2012 in order to raise new farms in the livestock sector and in the pig farming sector. We've raised a lot of farms, and unfortunately a lot of those farms have been in the process for the last few years. Part of these farms was financed from pre-accession programmes, meaning... from IPARD, part from commercial loans, and part from loans that went through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. About the number of loans that went through commercial banks, we don't have any exact data because they're still banking, banking secrets. When we speak in this piece that went through HBOR, there are a lot of our users and our farmers. Part of these loans went into the reprogramme, part of our farmers unfortunately failed as we concluded ourselves so that part of these farms ended up with the collection of HAMG guarantees, of course they went for sale or are now empty. The Ministry is also trying to find some solution for these remaining farmers who are in the system when we talk about HBOR, because each of them is an individual problem in all of this. We do not intend to write off the loans because it would not be correct for those who paid for it, to find some modality whether further reprogramme or other things actually make the current crisis that is in the livestock sector especially... to ease in all this. When we talk about farms that have been abandoned, unfortunately or fortunately, we talk first of all about private property. These farms are either still in the hands of those farmers who no longer use these farms either in the hands of banks or others. There we can try to find some models and the fact is that it's primarily private property. In any case, we are aware of the problems we have in the livestock sector and we are trying to solve it, and we will see through soon and through larger amounts in the incentive system, through various advices we are trying to make through changes to the regulations when we talk about the milk sector and everything else, but unfortunately, the situation is what it is. When we talk about agricultural land, we don't need to forget it. What our Prime Minister also mentioned today is that we are also doing an amendment to the Law on Agricultural Land, that is, a whole new law that will restore the availability of our municipalities and cities with the control of the ministry, the DORH and all those who should be. And I hope that this segment will recognise livestock farming as the primary goal of developing Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26039	Thank you. Dear Representative Ljubica Ambrusec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26040	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I must say that I am, in part, satisfied with the answer, by the fact that there will be a situation to deal with this problem, what the Prime Minister himself said and you and the abandoned country that really should belong to cattlemen and people who deal with production, because we also know that in a large way that we just mentioned people had failed and that they did not actually have an adequate amount of land to farm and, of course, to feed their cattle. I also hope that through the EU the funds will truly liven up to the overall situation because we are witnessing that we really must say that I would say a good start to agriculture because we know that Croatia has, is a golden country and that it can produce food and that this food can be available to all Croats. So Croatia can feed Croatians, and I also believe that the quantities of food can be sufficient for export. I hope we all stick together to this problem-solving thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26041	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26042	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I ask the question to Mr Tolusic, the Minister of Agriculture. To ask this question, I was asked by the members of the vineyard associations. In recent years and in northern Croatia, one of the most dangerous plant diseases of the vine has appeared more commonly known as the golden jaundice of the vine. This disease has caused major economic and material damage to vineyard cultures. According to me, the available data in Croatia has been researching phytoplasm since 2002 as part of a programme of special control of wine vine phytoplasm and vectors. In 2016, the expansion of the phytoplasm of the vine in Varazdin County takes alarming proportions. In certain municipalities such as Harp Hum is so critical that there is also a declaration of a natural disaster. Unfortunately, the disease affected not only the area of the Varazdin County but also the neighbouring counties of Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorska and Koprivnica-križevnica. Its suppression requires drastic phytosanitary measures that involve the devastation, destruction of the infected cane and even the most frequently entire vineyards. So my question to the minister is, are you familiar with the state of the field? What is the ministry doing or planning to do about this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26043	Thank you. Dear Minister Tomislav Tolusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26044	Thank you to the Honorable Uncle for asking the question. The golden jaundice of the vine is an extremely aggressive disease like you said yourself and realistically the only way to say the cure other than prevention when it comes to the disease itself is actually eradication or reeds or actually whole vineyards. In 2015, we had a primary phenomenon in the Istrian county where it was discovered, of course, on the basis of orders from the Ministry of Agriculture over 40 hectares of vineyards, but in 2016 other than Istria, we have such a phenomenon in Varazdinska, Međimurje and Krapina-Zagorje County and something in Koprivnica-križevčka. In 2016 it was some 15 acres [15 ha] but we are afraid that it is much more and given the seriousness of the disease itself and the drastic measures that we must take, of course, we are doing everything we can to stop this disease before it actually shows its true consequences. During this very period, let's say by winter we are carrying out various activities to prevent disease control. We conduct the education of winemakers actually to get to know them how to recognize the first occurrences of the disease, to prevent this disease in time. We're doing detailed lab tests to determine specific maps, so areas that are compromised, to set up special monitoring on them. But what's actually the biggest problem here is similar to the underpass in the Gorski Kotar, which is the area in this case the vineyards are abandoned but also some other agricultural areas that no one is processing. Then you have a situation for one piece to land, and the plot next to it has been abandoned, and there's an American cricket there again. I believe that we will also be able to bring an order in that part, that when we are in such a situation that the disease really threatens larger areas, that we can bring an order that will actually exclude this part of ownership from use and that we will be able to actually decide whether the municipality, the city, the county or just the ministry will disembark those areas for which we do not know the owner or the owner does not want to solve them adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26045	Thank you. Dear Representative Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26046	Minister, thank you for your response. I believe that you are aware of how much pain, effort, work is needed to raise one vineyard and with how much will and grill our winemakers are processing these vineyards. So here you are once again invited to have the Ministry and all the services involved to help our vineyards prevent the spread of this disease. And, of course, it's also financially helpful to all those who have already suffered it. If you're going to take a tour, you're welcome to invite us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26047	Thank you. The next question is asked by distinguished MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question is for Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Mr. Plenkovic, ten days ago, the President of the Republic returned from US property. We know it's a practice for statesmen to meet with the newly elected president, with his team. For example, Japan’s Prime Minister Abe met with Mr Trump, and his associates met with his advisers, so to their litigators, or their equivalents. But we do know that the president hasn't met with Trump. Did she meet with the counselors we don't know, because it's supposed to be a secret. But what I'm interested in is specifically from the activity and authority of the government of the Republic of Croatia that you're in charge of. I would like to know if the Embassy of the Republic of Washington has informed the State Department of its visit, and whether it says in the note that it is a private, working or official visit. I am interested in this, and I believe a good part of the Croatian public which is precisely the added value of this visit to the Republic of Croatia, for our international position, for our position in NATO and for the allies for the final work of your Government. Because if we take the minimum price of that visit, the minimum conservative assessment is between 100 and 150 thousand kuna. I believe that we as a legislative body and the Croatian public have the right to know what we have received for this money. And speaking of foreign policy, I would like to ask another comment, or answer. The same President of the Republic said in an interview with Klein Zeitung that anyone not well in the Republic could leave it. 80,000 of our fellow citizens have already left, so I wonder if that's the official position of your government and you yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26049	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26050	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic. As far as the contents of your question are concerned, it's almost the same as that of my colleagues, the Bunjac I just answered. The Embassy of the Republic of Croatia in Washington formally notified the State Department of visiting the President of the Republic. A fellow Stier knows that, and he informed me about it. As far as the added value of these talks is concerned, I am sure that they were useful, that the contacts that had been a sort of investment in relations between the Republic of Croatia and the future administration. If there were no encounters with any outgoing administration of President Obama who was still on duty with President-elect Trump, it is not so unusual. For details of the visit, the President informed the public of the extent she considered necessary by my court from her point of view. I don't intend to go in in any more details of her visit. What she said to me was, for me, in the communication we regularly maintain was enough as well as a notice that she would visit the United States before she went. As far as visiting costs are concerned, I really don't know or did it. The topics about the costs of numerous visits, including some of your US government ministers, were topics with which the public became very intensely occupied in their own time, but that's not my style, it's not my policy. I'm not getting into that. The president has a direct mandate from Croatian citizens, she received confidence in the elections, has experience in foreign policy, and I believe she knows why she went to the United States, and she has said that enough. As for the interview you said in Klein Zeitung I didn't have time to read that interview, so I can't comment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26051	Thank you. The honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26052	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, I cannot be pleased with your response to the team any more than I asked you and as you yourself said when you were answering your colleagues before me as a creator, co-creator of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. So we know she hasn't met with the outgoing or the newly elected administration. So, our president and then who did she meet? The public only received information on the dropper which these meetings were and that is why I am interested in what added value for the Republic of Croatia as such. Because I'm telling you one more time. So, if we take a very conservative assessment that she only went with one associate and three members of the insurance company, that they slept in two rooms in hotels of medium quality, we get to the amount of 100 to 150000 kuna. It's taxpayers' money that's been spent and deserves some answers. I find it more interesting that the president is not going to the inauguration, but here from the media I found out that our colleague Miro Kovac is going to the inauguration. If she has not already met with newly elected members of the newly elected administration, this was a great opportunity to do so, as it is also a practice to meet inaugurations of American presidents with a new administration, but also with statesmen of other relevant countries for Croatia who come to the same inauguration. You have not said anything in particular, I would also ask for a written answer, and from your last part I can only conclude that politics if not the government, and then the president is absolutely unwell in Croatia, who is not willing to go, and that you don't care about those 80,000 people who have left since you've been acting in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26053	Thank you. The next question is asked by the distinguished representative Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26054	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to Minister Murganic. On 22 January 2013, the Republic of Croatia signed the Council of Europe Convention to prevent and combat violence against women and violence in the Istanbul Convention family. The signing of the RS Convention has shown interest and has joined the efforts of the international community, notably the Member States of the Council of Europe, in order to make further efforts in this area to take measures aimed at promoting gender equality, combating all forms of violence against women, including domestic violence. Unfortunately, during the previous four years or so, the area of violence has been neglected by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the necessary activities have not been taken to implement the measures of the national strategy or measures aimed at ratifying the Istanbul Convention. Many women are interested in the following, when will the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, in accordance with its work and competences as a key state body in the field of protection against domestic violence, as well as the co-ordinator of the production and further implementation of national protection measures against domestic violence? When will the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy ask for the appointment of representatives of bodies and civil society organisations in which the area of domestic violence is in part-round work for membership in the working group for the establishment of laws to confirm the convention?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26055	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Nada Murganic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26056	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, prime minister, ministers and respected deputies. Since I'm checking in, I'd like to say hello to you for the first time today and thank you for the matter of Counselor Ljubica Maksimchuk. Namely, respected MPs as you in the introduction explained by the Republic of Croatia that the signing of the Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family in the Publicly Known as the Istanbul Convention. Although we are signatories as a state of many documents related to promoting gender equality, to prevent discrimination and to prevent violence especially against women, but in general to violence and if we have all these measures implemented in our Croatian legislation together with the strategies you spoke of, we cannot be satisfied with the results. Since 2013, the Istanbul Convention has not been ratified and this is a significant difference between the signing of the Istanbul Convention and ratification. Signing means that we agree with everything in the Convention, but when it is ratified by law in our Croatian Parliament through the law, it also creates an obligation to implement it. Its significance is so much that it gives rise to a higher level and importance in the prevention of violence, the protection of the victim, and the punishment of the perpetrators of some crime or crime. It's important and it's a very complex process. The Republic of Croatia must do so as a country which has defined itself for a zero degree of tolerance in violence and adhere to such and international provisions and has them implemented in the legislation. What have we done since 2013? We did this only now at the end of 2016 to begin the appointment and formation of a working group, which will be composed of representatives of civil initiatives or associations, from representatives of resolution ministries and certainly from experts through the academic community or representatives of various scientific institutions. The working group will also be tasked with leading all the ratification processes of the Istanbul Convention according to the rules of law in our Republic and the Croatian Parliament, and according to the normative activities, this will be on the agenda at the end of 2017. As it is a truly complex process in the ministry itself, a structural unit will be formed to monitor not only the adoption, but also the implementation of the law because I repeat a complex process that requires and expertise, organisation and considerable financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26057	Thank you. Dear representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26058	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I sincerely hope that you will speed up the ratification of the Istanbul Convention is here every day we can hear that this struggle is that violence against women is on the rise, so here I think it is high time to ratify this agreement that will certainly contribute to reducing violence against women.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26059	Thank you. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Environmental Protection, Energy, Mr. Slaven Dobrovic. Mr Minister, the recently adopted waste management plan, gives up the construction of a waste management centre or reduces the capacity of those to be built. Accordingly, in Karlovac County, the waste management centre that is intended to build its grandma's capacity up is therefore reduced from 100 thousand tonnes per year to 35 thousand tonnes per year, although waste disposal plans are planned at that dump, i.e. in that waste management centre both from Sisak-Moslavina County and from the Licno-Senj County. Therefore, my question, Mr. Minister, is where in 2018, 22 units of local self-government in the carlova County will postpone mixed municipal waste, and how much punishment will we have to pay to the European Commission for the reason that we will not be able to comply with what we have agreed, which is that until 2018 we are not dumping waste into an inadequate landfill, and from which funds will these penalties be paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26061	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Slaven Dobrovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26062	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much for asking the representative. So your question is to ask, point out the danger of payment of the penalty, so the damage is that we would not meet the conditions for the suspension at harmonised landfills by the end of 2018. So what we are doing now, so this reform of the waste management system, which is fully harmonised and required by the new European therefore, which is going to raise the degree of sustainability, to raise the level of recycling, to reduce the damage to the environment, is exactly the one that will solve the problem entirely. If by any chance we had stayed on the map as it was drawn in the previous administration we would have had 13 globular centres with over a million tonnes of annual capacity that would bring new municipal cost between 800 million kuna and billions for who, of course, for the users. Therefore, I suggest we stop being afraid of the dangers that lurk here. We've got a lot of work to do here anyway. When I think about everything, so it's about the state administration, the ministry, it's about the county, it's about local self-government units and citizens who must also be involved. So I suggest and answer you that we will soon show our activity that things in terms of capacity, in terms of practice, can change significantly faster than it is imagined, or what many imagine. I'll just remind you that some units of local self-government have achieved the goals that the Republic of Croatia has outlined in the Sustainable Waste Management Act because we were obliged to do so. So 50% recycling by 2020. It's already done somewhere. I think that the citizens of Karlovac and also of all municipalities, the cities that are gravitating in that centre are quite capable of responding to the challenges of today's time and thus reducing capacities so that in late 2018 we will not be standing before the question of who will pay for the damage but will be able to see significantly better statistics of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26063	Honorable representative Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26064	Mr. Minister, the problem is that units of local self-government, if they knew the capacity of units of local self-government, then they would know that unfortunately they are unable to carry out what is planned by their waste management plan. So they neither have enough time, nor have enough capacity to achieve the primary selection of separation. Unfortunately, construction of sortery and construction of recycling yards is not realistically planned in the waste management plan. And that will eventually lead to what you don't dare say and that the price of punishment and foam will fall on citizens and thus increase the cost of waste disposal. And then it is necessary to tell the Croatian public because in the end it will break over the back of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26065	Thank you very much. The next question is asked by the esteemed representative Marin Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26066	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. My question is for the Minister of Justice to Mr. Sprlja and this issue concerns illegal credit RBA cooperatives. We know that from the 7th convocation of this House that question is being raised to the 8th convocation of this Parliament and now to the 9th convocation of the Parliament. There's no final solution. We know they didn't have permission from the CNB, that's a fact, we know they forged signatures, stamps, etc. A million illegal stores. Ms. Editor at HRT Helena Krmpotić even lost her job because she gave room to talk critically about the subject. We know the familiar cases of the Vojkovic family, we know the case of Mr Dukić etc. etc. It is important to say that the opinion of the previous government of Mr. Oreshkovic has also given an affirmative view in the sense that there have indeed been illegal actions and that there is something to be done on this issue, but so far there is no concrete solution. So here's my question for you specifically what do you intend to take on this matter and what are your plans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26067	Minister Ante Sprlje's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26068	Thank you very much. First of all, I must point out that the issue of RBA cooperative operations is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance in accordance with Article 8. Laws on the formation and division of the Ministry and other central authorities of the state administration. However, you have asked a certain part of the question regarding the judiciary, which is if there are crimes. The law provides, therefore, for the Executive Act but also for a certain part of the Consumer Credit Act to be delayed until the completion of the procedure to determine whether a criminal offence has been committed or whether the contract concluded on lending or similar legal business is harmful. As far as I'm aware, no cases have been found to date where a crime would have been committed, we're talking about a possible judicial verdict, at least I don't know about such a case. I'm closely monitoring such situations if there's a case that would result in a powerful criminal conviction. Of course, if there were to be a powerful verdict, which would imply that there is a criminal offence in such a case, the conditions for suspension would be met. On the other hand, I must say that you have also cited Prime Minister Oreshkovic's opinion, but it is often misreadable. Thus, it did not establish that individual bodies were giving illegal loans or something else. So that there are existing laws to delay or enforce the right to end the litigation procedure or to suspend the exercise if, or to delay, too if a criminal offence occurred. We will continue to follow such actions closely, following whether there were crimes committed by Austrian or Croatian citizens. If we determine such a thing, believe me, we will react without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26069	Thank you very much. Representative Marin Skybola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26070	Here I would like to say that it is not true that this refers to the Consumer Credit Act, because the Consumer Credit Act covers only natural persons. It is therefore necessary to enter the Law on Mandatory Persons, which includes both natural and legal persons. That's the first thing. It's another thing. I'm starting from the point of view that all these loans were illegal, because there was no permit from the CNB and that you as the minister of justice should do something about stopping at least future actions that were coming until it was actually solved in that precise sense. I, too, have a bill of law. I hope that you will be in the mood for future communication and that we will try to find a solution together because of many families that these loans have affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26071	The next parliamentary issue, the respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26072	Dear Prime Minister, leaving the post of former Culture Minister Zlatko Hasanbegovic. All the people in the media, especially in those non-profits, but also all the other people whose democracy is truly at heart, breathed with relief from the nightmare. That relief was also supported, and hopefully, when you appointed Ms. Nina Obulen Koržinek as Minister of Culture. First of all, because we all know that the lady is an extraordinary expert on media issues. We were hoping that this poor situation in the media would improve significantly. Unfortunately, they haven't been fulfilled so far. Prime Minister, I ask you, when did you rightly give up Mr Hasanbegovic's ministerial services? Why didn't you give up his completely missed policies? Why didn't you repay the funding of non-profit media as guarantees of preserving the most important democratic values?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26073	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26074	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Stazic. When it comes to financing the entire NGO sector, you have seen the budget this government has presented and the budget it has received. Croatia needs a pluralist media scene, it needs responsible actors who carry important information and important facts in a professional and true way, and also make comments that should be used as corrective for all public affairs. That's how I experience the media, and that's how I see their role, and that's how I lead the dialogue with them, and that's how the policy behind which we stand. The Minister of Culture is an important actor of this government, conducting a dialogue with all cultural policy stakeholders including media policy. The Assembly Committee has a very important role to play in this regard. Minister Hasanbegovic contributed while serving as culture minister in the past government. I think that the policy that this government is leading is a policy that is correct, pluralist, democratic, turned to dialogue, facing division in society against a priority of mistrust, as your colleague Maras had in his exposure to me today, against inappropriate criticism, as your colleague Djujic is working on social networks higher than the President of the Republic. And against a series of other things that don't contribute to the culture of dialogue and responsible communication in public space in my court. With regard to the non-profit media, culture ministers will have dialogue with them, find solutions and I am sure they will have their share in the public space of Croatian media public life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26075	Thank you. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26076	Dear Prime Minister, you don't see the role of the media in showing it this sweetly, especially those of the nonprofits. I'll give you proof of that. The evidence has already given you several MPs here when they told you about how to monitor the activities of the President of the Republic, above all on the public media financed by state support. It all went pathetic, first of all no announcements of departure, then that miserable announcement in front of the White House board. Well, didn't even you as a foreign policy co-creator co-creator make it a warmer place for the president to check in, so the poor thing was freezing there, so we all saw that she was cold. It went even worse when she came back to the country. She did not dare to give an interview to any media or even to those with a national concession, but chose to participate in a entertainment show by one of the regime’s court journalists. We didn't know anything in that interview, or who invited her, or who she talked to, or what they agreed to, or what the results were. We didn't even hear about the famous president's chocolates in that conversation. Well, we least resent that, that court reporter, because the question of what he thinks about the person who shares chocolate by nationality might not have had to ask the president. It would be much more appropriate given his profession to ask the president of the parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26077	Thank you. And we're going to conclude this in the morning with a question from a colleague named Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers. I have a question for Minister Slaven Dobrovic. Since the Waste Management Plan has been adopted for the period 2014 to 2022, I have a question when are calls for allocations from the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26079	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much for asking. So the Operational Competitiveness and Cohesion Programme for the period 2014-2020, we are today at the beginning of 2017, so fat is being delayed, but here is the Waste Management Plan was a prerequisite for starting using these funds. When do we start? So, in the beginning of February, a tender will be launched and we expect about 58 to 60 units of local self-government to come forward for the financing of recycling yards. So it is for the first time that such content is financed from European money. So far, this has been reserved for national funds, even if it was possible. Later, we believe that we already have eight ready recycling centres, or sorters, for which a public call will be called in the middle of this year. And of course we're working on all those other fields I've already talked about. I talked so I wouldn't last. So education, waste prevention measures, of course, and waste management centres in terms of the rest, so there will be intensive work here, since we need to take care of the rest of the waste not recycled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26080	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the current morning is over. I thank the Prime Minister, the vice presidents, all members of the government for their patience. I'm setting up a recess. We'll be back to work at 15.00 hours. It's 13,47 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26081	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The contributions to the bill are not multiplied by the optimization of the work and functioning of the Parliament, but are on the Croatian Parliament website. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this and the legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Labour and Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received reports at a session on your benches. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an explanation? Here is Secretary of State Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26082	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the area of entry, residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia has been governed by the Act on Foreigners applicable since 1 January 2012. The law on foreigners contains provisions relating to the entry of foreigners, visas, provisions relating to the stay and work of foreigners, proceedings against foreigners who are illegally staying in Croatia, which special provisions concerning nationals of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. The law on foreigners is in line with a total of 22 directives, recommendations, decisions and resolutions of the European acquis. The procedure for amending and supplementing this law has been launched mainly to comply with the new European acquis in the field of work of foreigners. Three new directives have been adopted following the last amendments to the Foreign Act in 2013: the Directive on the posting of workers in the context of the provision of services, the Directive on seasonal workers and the Directive on foreigners transferred within a society which is transposed through this law into the Croatian legislative system. The majority of the amendments and additions to the applicable law relate precisely to the provisions relating to the regulation of the stay of seasonal workers who will be able to operate on the basis of a permit to stay and work of a seasonal worker, and the basis which can do seasonal work for a total of 6 months per year after which they must leave the Republic of Croatia. More specifically, it is also arranged to maintain the right of members of the family of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area in the event of the death of a spouse or a divorce and the exercise of the right to permanent stay. Due to the deadlines for harmonisation with the above-mentioned directives, which were June, September and November this year, and given that during the course of the EU, the pilot is the procedure for irregular transposition of the Directive on the freedom of movement of EU citizens as well as members of their families in the current law, it is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26083	I thank the secretary of state, Mrs. Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you are, dear colleague Mr. Bozo Ljubic, president of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26084	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues have therefore been coming to the address of the Committee and members of the Committee for a long time and since this last short term called the Croatian Parliament to the address of the Committee President and the members of the Committee, particularly those living outside the Republic of Croatia who are not Croatian citizens because they have found that the existing Law on Foreigners and, in particular, when seen in the context of the Croatian Citizenship Act is very restrictive and in fact, I would say reluctant to our emigrants when it comes to the use of certain rights in the Republic. So we asked for the opportunity to put this issue on the agenda in some way, and here's the opportunity that came up when we adopted this Foreign Law, which is motivated by the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the European acquis. I want to say here that after we received this law and after it was included in the agenda 14.12., the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia held a session and at that session we also considered this proposal as a whole but also in the context of this problem our emigrants have. I can therefore say that the Committee unanimously supported this bill to be adopted in an emergency procedure because it is a matter of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with European legislation, but the Committee has also decided to submit an amendment to my proposal as chairman of a committee which reads "Croatians with foreign citizenship or without citizenship are not considered foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law." Of course, here, Croatia's rights without citizenship in the Republic of Croatia to enter, move, stay, work, and work are also done with certain rights that spouses have, members of Croatian citizenship and their families. So to say, I will talk about this issue later in an individual debate on some details and arguments, and here I would like to make it clear that the concern of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, whether they are Croatian citizens or not the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia, and this constitutional obligation has been introduced, so also in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, its Article 89, which prescribes the part-line work of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia in such a way that the Committee has, among other things, the task of considering all the issues which are of interest of Croatians from the Republic of Croatia, their residence, their immigration, their work in the country, etc. So, I would now conclude with that here and, in a single debate, of course, I'll give the rest of the argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26085	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic. Does anyone else from the board president want to take a word for it? There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26086	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, there are not many of us in the hall and we are discussing laws that concern not only foreign citizens but also our labour market. I am therefore sorry that the State Secretary spent only two and a half minutes on the basis of this law which will have a strong impact on our labour market and on the possibility of hiring our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The introduction of this bill makes it clear that the basic purpose of the adoption of the law is to align it with the three EU directives adopted in 2014, each in its own way affecting labour migration in the EU. The proposal for a law amending the Act on Foreigners with the implementation of the Directive also makes certain amendments to existing legal institutes and introduces some new ones. Let me look back at some of these. One of these is also the proposed alternative retention institute, which follows international legal standards and principles of application of the detention exclusively as extreme measures. Unfortunately, though, this is the only change that is commendable to other changes in this area is not so commendable. Some amendments have been made independently on directives, such as the abolition of the possibility and the granting of travel documents for foreigners on a temporary or permanent basis, and some are stricter and more repressive than the provisions of the Directive. The most important is certainly and is the most alarming institution for criminalisation of solidarity, the measures envisioning the criminalisation of solidarity extend throughout the bill. They do not represent individual isolated measures but form a whole system of measures that outline the political and legal system not only towards foreigners and refugees, but also the desired attitude of society towards these groups. In addition to the narrowly defined exceptions, the bill foresees practically no exceptional threat of punishing anyone who assists a stranger in the illegal transition, stay or transit through the Republic of Croatia. Not only that, but the bill provides for punishment for trying to help, and for many other repercussions of financial nature for individual natural or legal persons, and for persecuting foreigners. The law is also contrary to Directive 2002/90 which provides for punishment only in order to quotes against illegal immigration, illegal employment, trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation of children closed up quotes. It is also contrary to Council Framework Decision 2002/966, which states that criminalisation must be without prejudice to the protection of refugees and asylum seekers in accordance with international law. Last year and before, we witnessed the proactive assistance of not only individuals but also our countries in crossing, staying and transiting foreigners, as well as other Member States and recently the Vatican. Today, the Republic requires institutions and society to make a complete turn of attitudes that not only is immoral but is also against the law. I therefore believe that it is necessary to qualify for aid in a way that aid for humanitarian reasons is not punishable. Under aid for humanitarian reasons, aid that does not result in any material and financial benefit for the aider is guided by a moral and humanitarian principle in situations that are necessary for the protection of life or the integrity of a person who illegally crosses the border or illegally resides in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We have made such a suggestion in the amendments that have come to your benches. I hope that the parliamentary majority will accept these amendments and that this foreign law of ours will not be sufficient for us to criminalise solidarity and criminalise the assistance that people give to those in need. Let us remember what it was like in the 1990s, and let us not make a mistake for these people who helped those who escaped the war of monsters to be punished for helping these people in need. But this law also has that main objective, which is the implementation of three very important directives in the field of the labour market, and that is the main reason for the amendment of this law, because this criminalisation of solidarity can be said that it is somehow put inside with the goal of not talking too much about it. Each of these three directives that are now being implemented also has a certain impact on the market for the work of the recipient country. The three Directives mentioned above aim not only to ensure a uniform approach by all EU Member States to regulate immigration policy and its impact on labour market policy, to enable EU Member States to introduce certain restrictions when transposing the provisions of the directive to national legislation to protect their labour market and to ensure priority in the employment of their own citizens and citizens of other EU Member States, and to protect workers by preventing the abuses that they may experience in the migration of labour force, and to harm workers and labour markets of the recipient country. We are the country from which it is moving and HDZ has obviously broken the record of 82 thousand evicted from Croatia in one year which we as a country need to imagine not only for people to go outside but we have to protect our labour market. I note that Austria's interior minister announced that Austria will go the way to go for employment by hiring Austrian citizens first, only then citizens of other countries, which destroys the elements of the EU itself and the free flow of people and capital. It is clear that we should not go that way, but through this law we could provide certain measures that would allow our labour market to be protected from the employment of people from EU countries. First of all, the Government of the Provisions of the Directive has explicitly transposed the law and this way of regulation in no way affects the reduction of normative arrangements or the relief of employers' behaviour, and is complicated by regulation in fact affecting the regulatory disorder, which, of course, facilitates abuse of those who will work in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I'll give you an example. The reference of workers to work abroad within the framework of the provision of services, instead of being laid down by one law of that substance, will be laid down in several regulations, in the Labour Act, in the Law on Foreigners, the Law on the Implementation of EU Regulations, the Law on Labour Inspection and the Specific Regulation, which will regulate the specific criteria for the general assessment of the elements of the posting of workers and of the business creation of employers, and a special regulation governing the procedure for the submission of mandatory content and form of a reference declaration. I would like to hear from the government's representatives in the final statement that they think that foreign service providers can manage in such a forest of regulations and how do they think that way to facilitate business in Croatia? The harmonisation with the Directive on the implementation of the Directive on posted workers should be used to regulate this matter by a single regulation in order to facilitate the application and monitoring of the movement of posted workers. Another message that can be read from the final bill is that the government's policy against Croatian labour markets and unemployed workers is not positive. With this bill, the Government sends a clear message to Croatian citizens, that it absolutely does not care in any way to provide unemployed workers in Croatia with a job, but it is obviously the government's intention to fully open the Croatian labour market and liberalise it further in a way that facilitates the employment of third-country nationals in seasonal affairs. The government is fully opening the labour market in Croatia with this proposal, opening it without any restrictions to third-country nationals. This in itself would not be a big problem if our practice and experience so far would not confirm that this will employ low-skilled work from our neighbouring countries, which will put additional pressure on the labour price in Croatia, and will negatively affect the reduction of the standards achieved. Instead of providing jobs to our workers, this government opens that possibility to seasonal workers from third countries. I would like to hear from the government's representatives who are justifying such behaviour towards domestic labour and unemployed persons because we still have a large number of unemployed citizens. It concerns the fact that all those mechanisms in the directive that leave Member States to protect their labour market did not take advantage of Croatia. And again, this proposal opens up a full labour market for third-country nationals. I will also support this claim with examples. The number of seasonal workers from third countries is merely suggested that the government can as expected not to establish quotas for their employment in practice. No limit shall be placed on the employment of seasonal workers and third countries in such a way as to enable such employment only if it is not possible to find a suitable worker among the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. The activities considered seasonal are not identified but leave the full possibility of employment open. Conditions under which authorisation for the employment of seasonal workers may be refused against employers who do not comply with regulations and employment on black are flexiblely arranged to send a message that Croatia does not care to prevent such harmful activities of employers. Although I note that the EU has repeatedly stressed the need to curb illegal work in the Republic of Croatia. This government policy and the ruling coalition actually tolerates such a phenomenon, and yet with its solutions it encourages the damage of workers in the Republic of Croatia. Such a government policy against Croatian labour markets is particularly harmful in the context of the high number of unemployed, disgraceful attitudes towards unemployed workers, which once again confirms that the government's policy is to build the competitiveness of the domestic market on low-paid labour, which fully confirms the government's neoliberal concept without any social sensitivity. I'd like to hear from the government and the ruling coalition if such a policy against a domestic worker shows the patriotism they are ruling in a coalition full of mouths. Is the Government planning labour import policy to increase foreign employment quotas that we have had the opportunity to see by the government's decision to increase the quota and, moreover, by fully liberalising third-country employment, the state has to prevent the outflow of our workers abroad. What do we want to criminalise solidarity for? We showed a high degree of humanity in the refugee crisis and now they'd arrest citizens who gave refugees a glass of water. This is a quick law, and I am not surprised at the Ministry of the Interior because it is logical that they do not have persons who could implement the work directives but I am surprised that the Ministry of Labour and the pension system did not participate in the drafting of this law. Because if that were so sure, I'm sure a bill like this wouldn't come before us or am I wrong? And to end, what concerns is the fact that this policy not only creates new jobs, but the existing ones also want to fill the low-skilled foreign labour force from third countries and this will affect the reduction of working conditions in Croatia. Personally, in such a policy where foreigners are put in front of our citizens and even in relation to such a desirable job, I see no patriotism but the distinct benefit of the ruling majority. The SDP has submitted certain amendments accordingly and will support this law if these amendments are adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26087	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Željko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26088	My dear colleague, I mean, I don't know what I'm hearing here, but I'm freaking out. I think I'm the law, it's a totally displaced topic. We're discussing something here, it could have fallen from Mars, and I wonder this, we hear phrases of human rights, work, job openings, and I wonder how it is possible that 27 years after the Homeland War we still don't have a single list of Croatian voters outside the country? How is it possible if an Irishman can have double citizenship and British citizenship that it doesn't have every Croat outside the country and we're talking about a demographic, demographic monster? Here comes 16 billion kunas from the outside, which is about 4% of GDP, which is revised. And these people not only haven't solved these fundamental human rights as a letter vote held by third-world countries, they haven't solved, for example. also private property, what is confiscated and you know the European Court of Human Rights to which you are calling has made a decision to return confiscated property etc. It's all made so these people don't come back and this is just a mere story here and a debate that you're spilling here. And I wonder when we'll wake up? We're going to lose this next generation because they've completely removed themselves from this kind of policy. And I'm asking you, because that rhetorical question, because that sabotage is intentional? You have now beaten them, those who return, for the budget of pensioners who are expected to return double taxation which is a clear profit for the Croatian budget. At the same time, people who have committed aggression on this country return, thousands receive tens of thousands of rights, etc. So, people live in other people's apartments and real owners who live outside haven't solved their grandfather's. Now these are the key issues and all these capitals about the rule of law, etc. They're just floscules because we're now being led to the brink of economic downfall on demographic collapse and whose merit is that if not your party and yours?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26089	I thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Glasnović. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26090	If it hadn't been for this last one, you would have realized that your exposure was in the form of an exposure with the aim of making it easier for Croats outside of Croatia to access our labour market in some way, but obviously you can't escape that the SDP is to blame for everything that's happened in the world probably because your SDP is guilty and it's raining or what's blowing your storm or what's snowing. But the Foreigning Law is a law that fundamentally regulates the stay, work and entry of foreigners into the Republic of Croatia. What you're talking about is the very theme of other laws and it's not the Foreign Law. The law on foreigners here is very clear that in the Croatian labour market it enables people from third countries to come to work in Croatia but again I regret that the Government does not blame the Ministry of the Interior but the Ministry of Labour and the pension system did not take advantage of everything the directive legally provides that our labour market does not fully open up for the entry of third-country workers. But since here we have seen today in an action plan that goes hand in hand to employers, and this goes hand in hand to the employers because it allows them to get cheap labour from countries outside the EU all in order to knock down the labour price and to have low-paid jobs in Croatia that are not suitable for the work of the wounded. I'm sorry it's so in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26091	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26092	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, in his presentation on the Foreign Law, you stated that the legislator did not take advantage of the opportunities provided by the EU directives to protect the domestic labour market, on the other hand, you set an example of Austria and the minister who declares that the Austrian citizens have an advantage in employment and only then from other countries and you say that you are against this model. So I ask you what is the model in Croatia then what would you suggest if it is, and should be our national interest based on the Constitution that everyone has the right to work first for Croatian citizens, and we have a high unemployment rate especially in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem to get the right to work. We know that most Slavs are currently working seasonally on the Adriatic. We know that the great pressure of employers in the order of hospitality and hotels is to give greater quotas for the import of labour. We also know that no minimum wage law has been passed in that amount that would be appropriate for the work done there. And we know that workers are also employed through this action plan in a certain way. Well, it's a good thing you're proposing how this area could be regulated to take advantage of European directives and to pass national legislation so that everyone has the right to work and that they can live on their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26093	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26094	Thank you very much. In my presentation, I was just about to make two points. It is one that is linked to the directive itself where you can legally restrict employment in your labour market and one extreme which Austria is now trying to implement where it is, therefore, a protectionist measure that is unlikely to pass in the European Parliament and in the European Union. But what we could do in the law itself is to make it very clear that a foreign employment quota is being brought. When we tell foreign workers we are talking about third-country workers, we are not talking about EU workers. That seasonal workers from third countries can only be employed if you cannot find a suitable worker in Croatia, to strictly establish activities that are seasonal. Here, in the bill of law, this is a broadly proposed interpretation which, knowing us, I think is not exactly settled in the law because the directive leaves the possibility for Member States to establish seasonal activities in cooperation with their social partners and what I am saying again, that here is the State Secretary in the preamble of the directive itself, which suggests this directive. We didn't do it. On the other hand, we must clearly state the conditions under which authorisation for the employment of seasonal workers can be refused in order to prevent black work. A lot of Slavs work in Dalmatia. But if you offer him 5,000 kuna in Dubrovnik, he will pay him 5,000 kuna when he pays for his accommodations and he has no food left. But apparently there are workers from third countries who would work for such a low living, a wage, and that's what this directive needs to be prevented, what needs to be prevented from this law that failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26095	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow MP, in the human aspect, you said that the law should not be rigorous, cruel to those who help refugees. Of course, we were always human in the most difficult times towards refugees from BiH, and that is a fact and applying it to a Croatian man is not good, the Croatian state. However, how to distinguish the example of this deserted van, a coolant that haunts people where they are found on the road and how to distinguish those who help and those who use monetary and unfortunate ones and their situation. So that's one very difficult question to find legislatively. We need to know that in this situation, people earn money in another person's accident, which is sad, and from that aspect should be seen in this humane way, but legally it needs to be clear and difficult to tell. I don't think so. You mention a liberal market. I am personally against it, and I will vote for your amendment, for liberalisation, for the foreigners you said that foreign labour. Because the fact that during the time you placed the boot in the hands of the DIV is that more people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, not natural Croats as citizens, i.e. citizens who have dual citizenship than other peoples from other parts of the country work for much less money, and our people who are much more skilled and competent go to Korea and in other ways. So, the fact is that we have empty areas in Slavonia, so you know that we have 50,000, that people have gone because of what during Minister Jacobine's time did not go to the O.P.G.s that they were trying to leave, but to the tycoons. And of course now in these areas we have to have, somehow, to bring back our people, that's where I agree with you. The ones who left Slavonia, but we can't do that if we buy cattle. Who's going to guard it means to maintain it as a farmer first. We need to correct the mistakes made by you previous governments and hope that you will give personal support, and for what is good, I will certainly vote for your amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26097	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26098	Thank you very much. I think it's about our dealings with refugees all over the world that gave us credit for how we acted. I think we did very well for those people who went looking for a better life and for our citizens. Because de facto most of our citizens have neither seen nor felt this great horde of people, the people who are moving. So it can be said that we attended a great village, a village of the people. It is very clear in the law that those who, for money and for everything, benefit from emigration, from those who give someone a glass of water, give a sandwich, give them something to wear. So the law treats both of them and those who drive in the van, who make money on refugees who are criminals and those who want to help and give someone a glass of water or a sandwich. And that's not good, you have to. We've given the amendment to resolve it. As far as the bootleggers are concerned, you missed the subject a little bit, because exactly the DIV has taken over the shipyard. We had to privatise shipyards because of the EU. But I note that at the time of the SDP's mandate, there were more requirements than the smuggling and others to approve a large quota of workers from third countries for shipbuilding work was not approved. In one year there were, therefore, over 2,000 requests for 2,000 work permits for the shipbuilding industry. We made it very clear, while we have so many unemployed, while we have 15,000 unemployed workers with interests in the shipbuilding industry have no quota approval. And the SDP government did not approve imports of labour unlike the HDZ government, which, according to the last one, approved a large number of labour permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26099	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26100	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Here is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law and an extremely important, complex and extensive law and business view, given the number of provisions that are amended by this law, he would deserve us to go with a new law, not through the Law Amendment Institute. However, we are where we are. The law is very important because it regulates these life issues, which is the entry of foreigners into the Republic of Croatia, their working status, their labour rights, their education, all other rights that are related to both health insurance and science and schooling, for theirs to say and stay and permanent stay and stay of their families and the conditions for leaving the Republic of Croatia, and this is indeed one law that has already been said here in accordance with 22 EU directives. The need now has proved to be in line with three other directives that are extremely important to regulate the issue of seasonal workers, their entry, their employment, their residence permit, their families. It is also an extremely important issue and a question of moving within companies. What we need to take care of, we are an EU member and as a member of the EU, we must have a compatible system with other EU members. So within that, in the Republic of Croatia, not only will there be companies and there are companies that are established by our citizens, by our legal entities, but the companies that are established in other EU Member States will also act on them, either in the form that they are established here, whether they have the right to have some business creation here or to work on their representations and therefore through that directive we must resolve and accept that part of the legislation that regulates the right to move people who are employed in such companies. This applies to managers, it refers to trainees within companies, it refers to people who have come to improve professionally. And looking at these positions, the law really offers solutions and the law implements these directives to which we are called and called. But what is extremely important to say, it would be good and this will be suggested by the HDZ Club, that the law still goes into regular procedure because there have been quite a few proposals, opinions delivered in the public debate, and it would be good to think about all this one more time and draw the line once again that the law is as high as possible and that the law meets all the standards that are needed here. The law provides for a lot of administrative procedures, which are dozens and dozens of administrative decisions and solutions that must be made on a variety of issues. Let me just count one small part, he says, we have a solution to ban, to return, to abolish the ban on entry and stay, to extend the time limit for voluntary departure, to force distance, to force distance from Article 124, solutions to apply milder measures, solutions to accommodation in the Acceptable Centre for Foreigners. So the whole, whole series of solutions that need to be made here in these new procedures, and that is why it is not just enough to pass the law, but to create infrastructure for the law to be enforceable. This means we have to have educated personnel, we have to have people who can make such decisions quickly, quality, and there is certainly one more significant and greater preparation for the implementation of this law. And we believe, therefore, that the ministry will, of course, provide with other bodies of our administration such conditions as to make these procedures go faster and to meet the conditions. Because let's see, we have to bring those first-degree solutions, so we have the right to appeal to the commission, so we don't have the right to have another administrative dispute at the Administrative Court, the High Administrative Court, and on that side there's really a whole series of procedures that the Republic of Croatia will lead here to comply with all these provisions. It is definitely necessary for the law to answer those questions primarily on seasonal workers' issues, on the issue of intra-trafficking and also on administrative co-operation through the EU's internal market information system. It's a very complex and complicated system and it requires one and a significant, more precise law, so to speak. The whole series is here and there are different definitions that should certainly be clarified and specified that they are also enforceable, that they leave no doubt when our professional people implement that law. Well, for example, there really is a whole series of definitions that need to be harmonised so that they are understandable. I don't know, Article 18 defines family members in terms of the law, so what is already a classic marriage mate, people who are in an extramarital community, a life partner, an informal life partner, is what we actually see in other laws. So that's where we have to be uniform. And then there's here, let's say, here he says in the case of a polygamous marriage, family integration in the Republic of Croatia will only be approved by one spouse. Well, then, we have a family reunion that won't be approved if a married or out-of-marriage friend is married or in a long-term relationship with another person or if he is a life partner or an informal life partner, but in a life partnership or in a long-term relationship with another person. This will all be very difficult on the ground and apply, so it is required in the law as accurately as possible to define all these things in order not to encounter any ambiguity in its application. What has been said here is that I don't think any foreign people should be afraid of coming here because in any case Croatia is part of the EU and in this one general exchange of ideas and experiences and work in this exchange Croatia must respect the basic postulates of the EU, which is openness. Our quality of life with us, our GDP growth will raise employment, prevent the need for our young people not to go outside. But at this point when we see how many people have moved out of the Republic of Croatia I don't want to blame any government, I don't want to address anyone's criticism, but the fact is that a lot of people have gone outside, that here in the Republic of Croatia have not found employment, they haven't found a way to ensure their existence and their loved ones. Slowly on our market, we also lack certain personnel, certain professional staff, and it is certain that in this one general exchange we must find a measure so that other people are coming to work with us. What we were talking about was that we need to set quotas and that it should be specified from which countries, especially from these non-EU countries, I think that in law it is well regulated, the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines the quota by taking care of the needs of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. I have to say in one government where I was a member of what came as a proposal from the competent institutions we did not accept because then I did not know what number of shepherds that means coming from outside people to be shepherds to us which I really think in the Republic of Croatia, with all respect to all these people who have a need for work, it is necessary to make sure that our people are actually employed and that our people are ensuring their existence in the Republic of Croatia. But I think the problem, on the other hand, is that people go outside because they have bigger salaries, they have better options out there, and that's what's really a big requirement for the Republic of Croatia to provide conditions for better wages, to ensure conditions for these young people not to leave the Republic of Croatia but to find a reason here and find conditions for good existence, for professional advancement, for perfecting. And I think that when we look at the results that have been achieved over the past year, which is that GDP has been increased, public debt has been reduced, and unemployment in the Republic of Croatia has been reduced. I think it gives us a great deal of restraint that the Republic of Croatia is going in the right direction. And finally, I would like to say once again that given the large number of proposals that have been addressed to the amendments to this law, as a HDZ club, we are going to propose that the law go into regular procedure that once again a number of proposals actually try to be evaluated and see what could enter this law in order to make it as high as possible. And also to make the law in its definitions as precise as possible that it does not leave too much space for discretionary assessments in its application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26101	I thank my esteemed colleague Drazen Bošnjakovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26102	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Bošnjakovic, you have also mentioned administrative procedures that are very difficult to obtain from anything and especially from foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. It's clear to me, and it certainly takes strangers to have one big check to get our papers and stay with us. However, he would ask another question about how Croats from the surrounding countries have the right to come to Croatia, to work and even to live also come to major obstacles and major problems when it comes to their documents and not to talk about non-Croatian Croats, who are even in America, Bolivia, Austria and around six months apart, can't get that. There is one example that a man from Bolivia is a Croat poor woman who was supposed to get a house in Croatia and was granted no papers and went back to Bolivia. So this is exactly what we suggest that these laws on Croats outside who would like to live or return to Croatia state are simplified, allow as much right as any of us Croats living in Croatia because all neighbouring countries in Slovenia, Italy, Austria, Germany allow their people, with little proof of their origin, to allow them to obtain documents and work in that country. I believe that we Croats from all over the world should be allowed to receive documents very slowly and in a very short time and have the right to work as well as all the other Croats. They left this country, not by their own free will, but by their banishment, persecution, and now they're persecuted because they can't get their papers after six months. So I ask you as a lawyer how do you consider that part and can our Croats get that much easier and that... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26103	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. I would ask you nicely to look at the time exactly so you wouldn't have to interrupt. Replica reply, distinguished colleague Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26104	My colleague Misic, I completely agree with you and I have no other answer than to advocate as simple a procedure as possible. In order for the procedure to be simpler, the law must be precise, it must be clear and not leave any large, wide space for discretionary assessment than if it means a clear and precise definition then and it goes. And among other things, why we're going to ask that the law goes into regular procedure, and not like this, there's an excellent amendment to our parliamentary committee, means that Croats who are outside the country don't have foreign status in these things and in the kind of procedures you've been talking about. And it's actually that the government thinks about that amendment and then here's another shorter time of analysis to really pass a law that's going to be real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26105	I thank my esteemed colleague Bošnjakovic for his reply. The following came to the line from distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26106	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, what you have discussed is a matter of openness, but the issue of openness is not only a matter of protecting our labour market, but it should be the intensity of this law to ensure, within the directive, that our workers in Croatia get a job and that there is no competition for someone who comes outside, who will also work for some lower wages. On the other hand, I'm glad that here you have admitted that the law is sloppy, because there was obviously no cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour and the pension system because it would probably look different. I hope that the SDP proposals, the amendments we have proposed, will enter into consideration in the second reading, and we from the SDP will also support that the law goes into just another reading. When we talk about Croats outside the country, I note that all those who have Croatian citizenship can access the Croatian labour market as well as our citizens in the Republic of Croatia and there are no restrictions. But again, I note the openness of that, but with the protection of our labour market in accordance with the directive because this directive provides us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26107	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his replica. Answer, distinguished colleague Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26108	Dear fellow Mrsic, the question of the wages you were talking about is not really a question of the law that is a question of the market itself that will actually balance the amount of wages and actually cannot be affected by the law. The subject of this law is the implementation of the directives we have talked about here, and the implementation of the directive means that there must be approximately similar or equal conditions in the EU area, and regarding these issues in which this law speaks seasonally, means workers. The transfer of workers within companies is then related to the information system. So on that side, I don't think there's any doubt. As far as I'm concerned, I can't say it's sloppy. The law is in its great majority a good law. However, he deserves yet another debate because there was also a great public interest, there were numerous remarks, numerous amendments, and finally we see here in our Croatian Parliament that the committees also propose a whole series of amendments. And so I think it would be useful, and here we at the HDZ Club suggest that this still goes into a regular procedure in which all of this will actually be analysed once again and after that we will pass one really good law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26109	I thank my colleague Bošnjakovic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26110	Thank you very much. As an experienced lawyer and former minister, a longtime official, you said we should not be afraid of foreigners. We shouldn't be afraid of strangers, but we shouldn't be afraid of the worst. We should be afraid of what is worst happening to us, 2/3 of Croatia is literally empty from Dalmatia Zagorje, Ravni kotar, Like, Gorski Kotar, Slavonia and Zagorje. Speaking of the law, I would agree with you that you should make a full change. However, we always speak the European directive. What does the word directive mean? That someone ordered us to do it? I don't think that's true? That's more guidance, a European guideline, and that's another thing that we have a mental set... The European Union, when we enter the European Union, all these directives are phenomenal, excellent,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But today, as far as our space is concerned, about what's happening in the world where we have the meaning of the epic proportions of the people's migration because of the war and the threat in North Africa where the states are gone, we don't exist and we have empty spaces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a possibility that in these empty spaces, because a billion people after research, a billion people want to come to the EU. Where's he gonna come from? Can you explain where the empty spaces are? We have a problem, but what young people are running away, what have been robbed and devastated by a number of economic operators and issued national interests. It's a key problem, which is why young people leave. So I'd like to ask you how you're looking at this emptying of those spaces in today's situation when we have epic proportions, so it means you're moving people out of those places that aren't guilty, because that's obviously staged. But where's he gonna come from? Will it come to empty spaces or full spaces? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26111	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26112	Comrade Bulj, you talk very often about empty spaces and this is really a great topic and you talk about your neighborhood from which you come where you actually witness and see it. When I was in the election campaign, my son was designing this campaign, and I was campaigning in a way that I was riding on a bicycle, and I crossed over almost the entire election unit by bicycle, that's this 6th election unit, where I met with what you're talking about. With Posavina, that move from Sisak goes further towards Novska literally half-breeding villages. Beautiful villages, beautiful nature, beautiful fertile land, but there are no people. That's not what I'd say if we were to address this government or that government, but just for years those villages were emptying out, people were getting jobs elsewhere. And if you ask me where I see a solution, I see a solution to stimulate these people to settle those areas, to deal with economic activity. And this very openness and EU membership I think it can help us because various funds exist, various sources of resources exist where many of these people who would like to start some kind of activity and settle that space could find. So, in addition to adding measures to our government that will certainly come out, I think that's a good way to go. But what is certain is not a process that will happen overnight. We in principle require and we need to make a strong strategy because almost every single one of you is talking about these empty spaces, and I think everyone in your neighborhood can recognize exactly what you're talking about. Because the biggest enemy of Croatia is or in fact the biggest problem is a bad demographic image and these empty spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26113	I thank my esteemed colleague Bošnjakovic for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26114	Thank you, Chairman. The subject is the Foreign Law, and in my opinion there are more disputed provisions, and the most disturbing case is a de facto banishment from our country of Vita Jedlicka. Vit Jedlicka built a state called Liberland on the right bank of the Danube and it would not be a problem if Croatia did not work against itself. And what's this about? Our state border is such that they belong to us from the left bank of the Danube place called Karapanja, Kenjia, Blaževica, Kolonjoš, Dragonjevac, Dragon 2, Peninsula, Zvernjak and Srebrenica, so these are the places that are on the Serbian side of the Danube, and because of the change, we are de facto not in control of them but the neighbouring state. On the other hand, on our side of the Danube, there is a place called Siga, which is one area that is disproportionately less than the area of our area located on the Serbian side of the Danube. Why am I talking about this problem? Because this area of Siga Croatia does not claim that it is part of Croatia, Serbia does not consider it, but what did Croatia do? Croatia has arrested Vita Jedlicko in the area, which de facto admitted it or showed that it has authority over the area and that it is considered part of Croatia. It thus went to Serbia and in fact legalised the status of these numerous areas that I mentioned from the left bank of the Danube and did us harm. Vit Jedlika is an unusual immigrant, he did not come because I don't know any ground-floor reasons in that area of Liberland, or as it is already called Sige, but came there for a reason to make a country that would be third in the world of size right behind Monaco and the Vatican, and the goal was to develop tourism, to bring people there because there are currently no people there, etc. However, because of the transition, and beware of what this paradox is, you will now laugh, Croatia considers that area, apparently there is police there ours, as part of Croatia or its jurisdiction, while the one who has moved from Croatia to that area arrests him for, beware of what, watch out for which paradox, due to the illegal crossing of the border. At the same time, the territory of Croatia considers it its own, the man has moved from Croatia to that area. So a total one paradox, a total one absurd, and unlike thousands of foreigners who are not from the EU, such as Vit Jedlička from the Czech Republic, unlike thousands of foreigners who have neither valid travel documents nor adequate visas, they are allowed to go through Croatia, enter Croatia, some of them remain here, and the Czech Vit Jedlička, who was no threat to anyone, who has only put Croatia in a positive context on the world news that so I say made a media attraction, has been processed, he has been thrown out. Keeping an eye on what the Foreigning Law says, it says, within the meaning of the article, a solution to the exorcision of Article 105. "The solution can be made if the stranger is illegally staying", a man was in the area of the Siga which Croatia never claimed to be hers. So he didn't break point one. Number two. "if he crosses and tries illegally to cross the state border," he did not do it either. And by any chance, he did, by any chance, that Vid Jedlica illegally crossed the border which might actually be considered controversial because Croatia does not claim that this is our area. He's right on the side of the Danube, so on the international waterway, he simply gets off in the area of the Siga and there being, but the Croatian state arrests him, banishes from territory that is not part of our country. And I repeat acknowledging Serbia right over those areas on the left bank of the Danube. Watch out for third, it helps in illegal entry, transit or stay. I don't think Whit Jedi did any of those things. I think, and the fourth says make marriage useful. Now watch this thought, what does it mean to make a marriage useful? There are many people in our country who have made a marriage of benefit. There are people who marry for love, both men and women, but there are men and women who, from various other motives, opt most frequently for marriage to someone. depending on the salary of that person, its social status, etc. etc. And now what's going on? In my view, Article 4 should read as follows: who makes a fictitious marriage with the aim of gaining citizenship or the right to stay and not who makes a marriage useful. Because it's to make a marriage, because watch this, let's say I'm an example. The woman from Kenya and that my colleague Bunjac from the Living Wall is a man from Croatia now I'm using some let's say marry him and we live together, we live together. Did I make a marriage out of use? I am, but there's nothing the state can say about that key now, and now we're going to deport you because you're out of kindness, I don't know, and not out of love, I married you. So I feel that this term to make a marriage out of use is wrong because marriage is valid even if it is of benefit. Here's if you can, you can make a marriage for various reasons, ladies and gentlemen. He says he violates the law on the employment and work of foreigners, commits a criminal act, has been legally convicted abroad for difficult things and I don't know if he's committing a crime again. I believe that Vit Jedi is a person who needs to be abolished from Croatia, I believe that he should be allowed on the side of the Danube, on the side of the Danube to come to the area and Sige and in case his crossing to the territory of Siga on the part of Croatia is disputed, so let the state of Croatia make a border crossing, make a border crossing, and then man will cross the border crossing. But the problem is there's no border crossing. And if he wants to land on land, a man enters his country of Liberland, unfortunately he can't do it. I would therefore, in the end, read his letter to the Croatian Parliament. It reads like this from Vita Jedlicka "Dear members of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen first let me congratulate you on the 25th anniversary of the international recognition of Croatia that you celebrated on January 15th. It is an important event in the history of the Croatian state. It took a lot of effort to establish and build your country, the country I respect and admire. I represent a peaceful and free nation of people who are ready to co-operate with the Republic of Croatia composed of 400 thousand people who have applied for citizenship and many of them are world-famous architects, artists, investors, entrepreneurs or diplomats. We believe that human freedom, limited power and free market are the best elements to achieve the boom of society. We are working on applying best practice management from the past with decentralised management technologies of the future. We are inspired by successful countries such as Hong Kong and Monaco that are constantly allowing significant profits to neighboring countries. More than 40,000 entrepreneurs have expressed a clear interest in investing in our country. Our economists predict that the full development of Liberland can help boost economic growth in Croatia by 1% annually and drastically reduce unemployment throughout the region. Our nation was founded on 13 April 2015 on the day of Thomas Jefferson's birth but the sources of our ideas can be seen in numerous historical events starting with the exodus of ancient times. The event of this idea was also seen in the American Revolution but recently through the founding of Liberland. We have chosen a free portion of the territory previously known as the Upper Siga to avoid any territorial disputes with other countries. We have set our borders outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as outside the Schengen area. We highly appreciate the efforts of the Croatian police to protect the borders and are willing to help them work with them. We are also ready to be a reliable partner in Croatian foreign policy. Liberland has established its representations in more than 80 countries aimed at working in agreement with Croatian diplomatic missions. Liberland is only 7 square kilometers in size, making it the third smallest country in the world after the Vatican and Monaco. We kindly ask you to pay attention to this kindly we ask that you respect our right to peacefully establish that part of the territory. We are ready to open talks between the Croatian government and the Government of Liberland to define our regular border crossing in accordance with international law." That is what I say is controversial. That he was arrested for the illegal crossing of the border and there is no legal border crossing between Siga Gornja and the Republic of Croatia. "We are ready to co-operate in the area of drug trafficking, extradition of criminals, combating terrorism, tax avoidance and other areas of your interest. We thank you for your patience while we work hard to fully establish our institutions but also our legal and financial system. Croatians have important historical experience with small shelters oriented towards freedom. We would like to remind you of just one example of the Dubrovnik Republic that has brought great benefit to the entire region but also to the world. We would like to build on this historic experience to become a bright example for the rest of the world in collaboration with Croatia. One of the key aspects of ensuring the existence of the Dubrovnik Republic was the strong respect for freedom, which is in the slogan “Freedom is not sold for all gold in the world, and our motto is living and letting live! ” If you share faith in freedom with us, I invite you to celebrate with us in the celebration of 2 years since the establishment of the State of Liberland on 13 April 2017 in Liberland. Our main intention is to work closely with regional and central Croatian authorities in the economic growth of the region to ensure that Croatia works in harmony as a partner in its immediate neighbourhood."Here are dear friends and colleagues, I read you the letter Vita Jedlička and I appeal once again, that this decision on exile does not apply to Mr Vita Jedlička, because it is not a person who harms Croatia in economic terms or any other sense, it does not endanger our territorial sovereignty because it does not claim a part of the territory that Croatia considers its own. And to establish control over the state border as far as illegal immigrants are concerned, which means, as we've had for a few years since this refugee crisis has gone uninterrupted across our country. Once again, I want to say that freedom is the right thing to say, self-determination, etc. the highest values there is. And I believe that Croatia's decision to force power over the upper sig and argues that it is part of Croatia and banishes people from there, legalises the status of areas on the left hand side of the Danube that belong to Croatia, which Serbia has actually occupied and is keeping under its control. And rather than banishing people who are illegally staying there by the Croatian state over these areas, instead of establishing control over their own territory that is not ours, which we do not consider in international law, we banish people like Vita Jedlicka who are one example in this whole migration story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26115	I thank my dear colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar or Mrs. Pernar Bunjac, as you have already stated in the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26116	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. I certainly have to turn that story around somehow, because this story seemed to me like it was a fairy tale, but it's not at all. It's not exactly fairytale to me, especially since I was in '91. When I was expelled from the house I lived in, we had one such authority that she said you no longer owned. But they didn't define who owns that property I own, but they stayed out there. However, I never gave it up. So when a so-called politician comes along who claims to be his and declares himself, just declares it or whatever we call it to a Prime Minister and still communicates it, then first I think I need to go back to some past and figure out who it really belongs to, that then he can single-mindedly adopt something to himself because in this way I'd like to see just how it would be if he showed up there in '91. late or '92. Well, then maybe it's the representatives of the so-called. Republika Srpska said no, it's my country. We can only get one of us to say that kind of kick in the ass, so I think what the police did was very smooth and in a nice waycommunicated. And at that time, I'm sure he'd get shot in the head, so that would be one message, which means freedom. Therefore, consider that taking something and just declaring it is not a certain act that appears to be some pompous politician who is from a tenth country and says I will have my right to do so. I'd like to see why that right didn't come out in the Czech Republic on some border, there's a Danube there too. He probably used to mechandrate there, so he changed streams, changed some lives, but certainly no one ever let anyone show up on the side and picks up and says here today it's mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26117	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. Replica reply, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26118	Mr Panenić, thank you for your presentation, and what I think we should say in some way is that you are mixing such a word with pears and apples is that Vit Jedlička did not declare the state of Liberland in the area that Croatia considers its own. So he declared it in an area that I don't know at the border from '47. belongs to Serbia, over which Croatia is not entitled. If Mr. Vit Jedlika had come within the borders of our country, if he had come within an area that has been internationally recognised as the Republic of Croatia at that avionic border, the border that we consider our own and if he had declared some of his republics I would have said Mr. Jedlika you are wrong, you can't and I would have deported him first too. However, he did not say he came to the territory of the Croatian state border but came to a country where neither Croatia claims to be hers, and Serbia has denied it. So he didn't bother anyone. He is actually politically persecuted and Croatia has actually violated international law in dealing with him because it had no right over a country that did not exercise its jurisdiction. And by doing so, which has established jurisdiction over something that is not part of Croatia's country has actually legalized what Serbia is doing, which is usurping Croatia's country full of bigger than Vit Jedlička took from the left bank of the Danube. And in fact, the decision of the Croatian authorities goes hand in hand to the Serbian authorities who, to this day, these Croatian pockets, let's call them that, from the left bank of the Danube, usurp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26119	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague named Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26120	Comrade Pernar, I am in a dilemma whether I should go into debate with you in a way that the parliamentary representative actually takes up one position as a traitor in the sense that Croatian territory is denied. You claim it's not Croatian territory. I didn't see it anywhere, or to take your debate in that style of yours as one performance in terms of, you gave one statement on one portal, I saw it yesterday in a study, I don't know Sarajevo anywhere, how often in your discussions in the head of parliamentary representatives or Parliament you're conducting a circus. I didn't realize your argument was serious, I didn't realize you were giving up Croatian territory and I didn't realize you meant what you were saying. As for the marriage that you mentioned for good, you know the marriage of use can be made, but it is not consummated. Even in the Holy Mother Church in the canons of the Holy Mother Church, you know there can be an annulment of a marriage that is not consummated. And it is very easy to establish a marriage for good. So I think you're wrong too. But you will probably confirm to me in response to the replica that you didn't mean it and that this is another one in a series of your performances related to Croatia's territory across the left bank of the Danube. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26121	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Varda for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26122	Mr. Varda, okay. if you claim that this area is part of Croatia although it has never been covered within the Croatian state borders, you are at the same time giving up the rights of Croatian areas within those borders that were defined'47, which are still in force today because no other agreement has been reached and you are actually agreeing to high treason to a much greater extent. And why is that? Because on the right hand side of the Danube is only this unfortunate upper Siga, and on the left hand side of the Danube there are many more of these areas. I will once again name them Karapanja, Kenji, these are huge areas in northern Baranja, Blaževica, Kolonjoš, much larger areas than Siga, Dragonjac, is also much larger than Siga, etc., etc., etc. What am I trying to tell you? Yes Croatia by doing so, i.e. that by claiming that it is the Danube that represents the borderline, and not the limits that were last agreed, it represents the real line of demarcation. You're giving up on that, Mr. Varda? You give up all Croatian areas on the left side of the Danube. And this mathematics where we get a small Sigu, and we give the Serbs six other trans-Duntian large areas, plots, this mathematics is high treason to me, not my Mr. Varda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26123	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. The following came to light for the debate on behalf of HNS-HSU Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26124	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. This is an extremely important law that we are discussing today, and in some ways I protest that trivial topics are trying to pollute and cloud this topic. In this way, as we listen to extremely important topics, if you want from demographics in Croatia, national sovereignty, if you want human rights, if you want our obligations within the EU, if you want ways to combat a possible new refugee crisis, all this actually falls into another plan because of trivial and banal stories that have nothing to do with this law. And as important as the law testifies to the fact that in the midst of this debate of the HDZ club, I hope that Madam Secretary of State knows that, announces that the vote will require the law to return to the first reading process. So the ruling party club is aware that the law as proposed is not right and should be completed. Already, the fact that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law contains 123 articles bear witness to a practice which has not been welcome in this House for years, which is that when such extensive amendments and additions are done, I remind myself of this kind of material, that it is then a minimum of decency to prepare a proposal for a new law. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Liberal Democrats and HSU, I declare that we cannot support such changes for a whole series of reasons and for principle and for concrete reasons. We will try if the law does not return to the first reading of the amendments we have referred to in the procedure to change the bad spirit of this law when it comes to the behaviour of Croatian citizens in the treatment of refugees. But if these amendments don't pass, we can't be in favor of this law. In principle, it does not meet either the spirit or the national needs of the Republic of Croatia. The law on foreigners that we have now is nothing but a reflection of an extremely autistic not to be misunderstood, not in medical terms, but orientation, autistic, closed policies. We have an extremely rigid immigration policy. The Republic of Croatia is among the European countries that have the least foreigners living in it. According to the latest data, it's 0.6%. Just for comparison, one Spanish has 12% of foreigners that I'm not talking about other countries. What's this about? It is a lack of understanding of the long-term demographic needs of the Republic of Croatia. It's not just demographics, it's just a newer natural growth for newborn children, it's not just a family policy, demographics is a long-term thinking of putting into function the entire resources we have and if we don't have people to compensate for it. And what are we doing? We have been implementing such a policy for years that white-world thieves and mobsters are getting Croatian passports without a problem, but in the ordinary world of honest people, high-speed equipment, experts put a noose in their faces and say we will not let you go to Croatia. And then we argue about how many workers will come to shipyards. Well, that's not the point. Look at the structure of the unemployed, look at the structure of the hard-working, and you'll see, ask the Chamber of Commerce, and you'll see how desperately we need expertise and people who carry it. What are we going to do tomorrow when the entire health care system admits to us finally how many human shortages it has, the personnel shortages? We have cases where a prominent foreign diplomat, after a perfectly defined diplomatic internship in the Republic of Croatia, gets the highest honor from the president of the state for everything he has done for relations between Croatia and his country, marries a Croatian citizen, continues to work in his country because he has such status, but occasionally comes to Croatia and does not give him any opportunity to stay here with his wife longer than those famous 90 days within 180 days, and that is a simple visa. But that's why people who have introduced little capital that we don't even know what its origins are without any problem give permanent housing and they have no restrictions at all and they don't live in Croatia at all, but they come a month, no more than two a year. The bureaucratic way of thinking has brought down the ramps at our borders towards quality, good people who would like to come live in Croatia, who have traveled here as tourists, who wanted to buy real estate here, who wanted to design some new life, who were getting married and getting married but the procedures they were going through have been such that they were discouraged since the first step. So we're talking about the spirit of a law that's old and old-fashioned, it's run over by time, and we have to if we want to follow the maximum that Prime Minister Plenkovic put out here that demographic policy is going to be one of the most important policies of this government then we have to change the whole concept of the law and think differently. Does this mean lowering the criteria to those who carry the risks to our safety? Of course not. But it certainly means changing rhetoric towards people who come from other countries and want to live with us. That certainly means that we must never be affected by what happened yesterday when the president in Klein Zeitung said that we received the wrong refugees. We received says men at best, not women and children from Aleppo. Imagine we received refugees who came to us and didn't receive refugees who didn't. Well, it's amazing that a politician in the 21st century treats a man as cannon meat. Forgive me. That's below the level of modern politics. That's how World War I and World War II generals talk. It's not a good message about our image or how we're going to treat refugee situations in the future. If we have already experienced a great experience, as great as we have remained pure in face, which we have shown our humanity, which is where the institutions were unable to react for the first ten days, we have jumped in as citizens, and after the institutions have fully prepared themselves, teamed up, technically established a network, if we have done our job until the end of pure face and humanely why are we now going to criminalization of solidarity? According to the law, this proposal sets out to amend and supplement any person on the path of refugees who have crossed the border illegally providing one single apple, diaper, water or any form of assistance including a orientation to the first possible institution for admission, according to the police, according to the Red Cross, according to the Merhamet, according to any institution that takes care of refugees according to so those who need to contact the refugee in the system. So, if you provide any help, you are criminalizing yourself under these amendments to the law, and this has nothing to do with European directives. So, the part that's being implemented here, and the consequence of the three directives, has nothing to do with refugees and people who have left home out of angry trouble. Few people leave their doorstep and their house just because the sun is better somewhere. The most beautiful sun is where you were born. The homeland is where you speak your heart and your tongue, and no one from your country goes without being distressed by anger. And people like that don't give their hand no good, it's not human. Let's stay people, because our people were refugees too, and unfortunately, our people were just wearing their heads on their shoulders when they ran from where their lives were gone, at least temporarily and thank God. In that sense, we think when we make new laws. Who do we write them for? What's it gonna be worth? Whether we have to be ashamed or better to learn from other people's mistakes, but to strengthen our pride. And because we are concerned about the Croatian Democratic Community club, he did a good thing when he suggested that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act with the final draft of the law be returned to the regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26125	I thank my esteemed colleague, Goran Beus Richemberg, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first came to the line, a distinguished colleague, Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26126	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I would agree with my colleague Goran that we need a whole new law on this topic, because this many changes provide the possibility of major mistakes that will make us more complicated by the whole foreign situation, by foreign workers and by what we need in our country. Because no matter what our people go around Europe with bread, there are a number of jobs that unfortunately in Croatia people don't want to do, so these are big problems with farm workers on livestock farms, on vegetable farms where just our people don't want to or do this job, or they think it's too low-paid work, and our farmers have big problems with workers from the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania want to do such a job for the price they pay here. So far, they have tried to solve this problem more than once, but no government has heard of it, and no law has made it worse. And then we come to the fact that we have illegal workers coming to work, because farmers themselves can't get to do that job, and in Croatia, there are very few such workers. In my opinion, it is necessary to make a new law professionally designed and flexible, to be in the course of the time we are in. And as far as refugees are concerned, you need to be careful. We see the situation in Germany, so it's good to hand it over to everyone in need, and I agree that anyone in trouble should be helped. However, among those in need are a very large number of people who, for some other reason, are moving towards Western Europe and with other intentions and with other cultural and religious definitions that are very difficult to fit into our culture, and that is one danger that should be taken into account, which could later come to all of us in our heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26127	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lenart, for the replica. Replica reply, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26128	I'll start at the end. What you call a danger I see not as a danger but as a challenge. If we have already been so firm in our belief that by celebrating the great anniversary of the declaration of Islam to the state religion, or religion with the right of the public in the Republic of Croatia last year, so if we highlight it as something we have to be proud of then we have nothing to fear. Especially what we don't have to fear when we look at who the refugees were. There are Muslims, if they are contentious to you, it wasn't very much. There are many more who were threatened with their own birth in Syria Language, Christians, all those who are not even close to the shale of life in this world in the beginning had to escape because I met with terrorists meant their death. I wouldn't be afraid of that. Let us not be afraid of it because we have a direct experience of life with different people. But when you mentioned agriculture, I'll tell you, I witnessed the offer of some foreign companies offering Croatia to triple the production of sheep meat. So, everyone... And the sheep and the lamb and the goats and the goats and they buy everything in advance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No way. This Croatia is unable to produce despite its 400 thousand hectares of unprocessed state agricultural land, because this type of work we are unable to develop. Six or seven thousand kunas for the job of someone who will deal with sheep are absolutely below our level, and then this job is done to us by settlers from really distant countries who may never have seen Croatia or sheep before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26129	I thank my esteemed colleague, Beus Richembergh, for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26130	Comrade Gorana, you mention refugees who can fully agree with you that people should be given help, that they should be provided, that they should be protected in this part, fed, put in warm rooms to live like normal people. And I would always agree with that. However, to give foreigners residence in the Croatian state in a simple way, I think it is not good. You can see for yourself that there are already problems in Germany, and the Chancellor's own Germany has already been called in many times in its political and other German media for the part it has done, however that is the case. Remember our war, our refugees who were in Germany, we consider Germany a democratic country that is at least, we'll all say 50 years ahead of us, all our refugees who went to Germany got the refugee statutes, they got help. When the war ended even somewhere where the only shooting stopped when they came was they were already taking them back to their homes, thought he said there was no more war there. I agree with you that such men should be saved from the shooting and all, and when the war is over let them return to their homes. The Croats from the world can't come back here and get their papers. You all know why they left and how these people feel. We need to get these people back, make a democratic country and a good country for them to invest here, there are poor people who would come back, but they're not approved either. Therefore, I agree that in the Croatian state democracy should go, but in one direction, first for Croatians who have been exiled, so all other people who need to be saved when in trouble I fully agree. But get easy documents, you can't do that anywhere in the world in any country. If you're a stranger, you can't get easy documents anywhere in the world. Therefore, let's not bring Croatia down to say that we are not Democrats unless we give the foreigners documents. Come on, the Croats and they cannot get in Croatia, unfortunately, and the foreigners should certainly be checked for droplets released to the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26131	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26132	It is fortunate that HDZ intended to return this law to first reading, otherwise if we had to commit ourselves to that amendment by the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, then he was angry and hooked up because I hope you know when you're talking about us being, by nationality, what we think we are and what we say to ourselves. So each of us can theoretically become Croat tomorrow if it isn't already. And now imagine that everyone alive in this world who says that the Croat is automatically entitled to enter Croatia as this amendment wants. For example, people say that the Croats are of origin from Iran, so in principle, it's a zone for you all the way to Afghanistan. And you know how many of these Haruhatas can come tomorrow and tell you we're Croats, and we're older than you, and they get in without a problem, and they get everything they need. But what I was actually going to say, let's not be afraid of strangers, let's just think about the fact that it's possible that out of these hundreds of thousands of people who have gone through Croatia alone, it seems to me that 40 people have sought political asylum. So I'm ashamed of God they didn't want to stay with us. So what's wrong with us? And then you look at yourself in the mirror and then you see what's wrong with us, we lack a good foreign law among other things, we lack tolerance, we lack such an atmosphere where we create a new value, we are proud of ourselves and others. Much better, more valuable, more busy than we are, less lying, more tolerated, and then they'll want us to come. Well, then of these hundreds of thousands of people, at least 300 people will want to live with us in Croatia. And this is how poor men wind under their heels and go as far away as possible. I was ashamed, I don't know how you deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26133	I thank my esteemed colleague, Beus Richemberg, for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the debate will be shared by distinguished colleague Ervina Lekai Prljask and distinguished colleague Veljko Katazi. Here you are, dear colleague Ermina.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26134	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable State Secretary. I'll look into the Foreign Law today. As for the first one, I would say a proposal that, in order to approve the temporary stay of third-country nationals who are members of the family of Croatian citizens, will not require the proposal to propose evidence of means of restraint, we consider it an improvement of the existing situation. But it is certainly necessary to consider the current practice of the MUP which has shown that in the procedures of the approval and extension of the temporary stay of long-term persons living in Croatia, and many are also members of the family of Croatian citizens, they do not respect enough specific living conditions, nor social and humanitarian reasons. As a result, individuals living long-term in Croatia who, for transition and other reasons that they could not personally influence, did not regulate the citizenship of some of the states in the former Yugoslavia, so they could not even obtain new travel documents. Such a situation particularly affects members of the family of Croatian citizens whose previous stay was approved for family or humanitarian reasons, who could not obtain a valid travel document without going to the country of origin, which rarely resulted in family separation, especially parents from underage children, for a certain period of time. It follows that the insistence on the formal condition of possession of a valid travel document for long-term residents in the Croatian state area or members of the family of Croatian citizens are assumed to be living and humanitarian reasons. We therefore believe that in the process of amending and supplementing the Foreign Law, it is necessary to regulate temporary stay in order to join the family or for humanitarian reasons to further strengthen the position of foreigners living long-term in the Croatian state area or members of the family of Croatian citizens in such a way as to prescribe an exception or that a request for temporary stay is not required to contribute to a foreign travel document in case it cannot be obtained in the diplomatic representation of a foreign country in the Republic of Croatia or when the acquisition of a valid travel document is due to the separation of the family. Similarly, since the number of persons had not been regulated by the temporary stay for humanitarian reasons and if members of the family of Croatian citizens had not had to meet the conditions of the means of maintenance and regulated health insurance provided for in the final proposal, they would be able to regulate the temporary stay for family integration because they would not seek the condition of the maintenance but not that they would be exempt from the conditions of regulated health insurance. Therefore, for all persons who are members of the family of Croatian citizens who have previously regulated the temporary stay for humanitarian reasons, an additional exception should be prescribed. In accordance with the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in Croatia, persons who are assigned temporary stay are obliged to pay monthly contributions to health insurance. And the inability to pay the amount required for health insurance due to poor material opportunities contributes to the creation of a tax debt and debt in this regard one family represents a significant amount of money and are often unpayable. Thus, it would equate the status of a member of the Croatian citizen's family with the applicant for granting temporary stay for humanitarian reasons and would no longer be necessary to regulate the stay for humanitarian reasons for the sake of family integration. When asked a question of knowledge of Croatian language, letters and letters, I suggest that any stranger who has been granted permanent stay be provided free courses of Croatian language and through these courses would be given quality and timely information about laws, traditions, culture and anything that makes it easier for foreigners not to assimilate but positive integration into Croatian society. This expenditure from the state budget would be, would be a kind of investment multiplier that would bring multiple social gains because a stranger who gets to know the environment he came to tomorrow would be easier to get a job, raise children and thus be a valuable member of society. And in the end, she'd say, she'd look back at something about annual foreign employment quotas. The proposal, which provides for the annual quota for the employment of foreigners, should be respected in line with the labour market situation where the lack of workers of certain professions for which increased demand exists will be identified. We suggest that the employment of foreigners is made possible as required by the employer, e.g. an employer who is in need of an employee of a particular profession may contact the employment office which, within 5 days, checks the availability of workers and informs the employer thereof. If, within that time limit, the employment office fails to find a worker of the appropriate qualification, we propose that the employer be granted a permit for the same worker to stay and work of a foreign worker on a specified deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26135	I thank my esteemed colleague. Continuing, imported colleague Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26136	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Madam Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In view of the proposal for a law that is before us, I have noticed just as the Office of the Attorney General that in certain segments there could be a threat to the rights of the socially endangered and that there could be no connection to any other State other than the Republic of Romania. It should be pointed out that the Roma do not have a country of origin, so certain provisions of the proposal for this law are particularly bad for the Roma who would be asked to attach the valid side of the travel document they do not have and cannot obtain. Exceptions must be introduced for those persons who, as you know, live in inhumane conditions, separate settlements, and this way we ask for a secure residence. Although none of them have been listed they were born here with us and it would have been disastrous to burden those persons as if they had come to the Republic of Croatia yesterday. In fact, it is a very specific problem because there is a significant number of Roma who for various reasons have not obtained citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and are born here, have narrow family ties, some kind of housing etc. So it's not really about strangers, it's about people who've been here forever and because of particularly bad circumstances, they haven't been able to exercise their rights. To date, these persons were granted temporary stay for humanitarian reasons precisely because they were unable to meet legal requirements, operating means for maintenance and regulated health insurance, and in particular foreign travel documents. Why is it so not to be specifically explained because we have long recognized it by the National Strategy for the inclusion of the Roma Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments 1 and 2 of the National Minorities Clubs are just trying to equate the status of members of the Croatian family with persons who have had temporary residence status for humanitarian reasons, and who have a strong link with the Republic of Croatia are born here, have close relatives and live here. If Amendments 1 and 2 are not adopted, the space shall be opened so that, regardless of the lack of the need to attach evidence of the means of maintenance to persons who are Roma or members of any other socially endangered group or national minority, they are almost forced to separate themselves from the family unless they are able to present a foreign travel document which they do not have, i.e. a secure residence in which employees of the Ministry of the Interior should make arbitrary decisions. In this sense, it is absurd for persons born and born here to live in the Republic of Croatia to equalise their status with foreigners who arrived in the Republic of Croatia, for example, in the last refugee wave. In this regard, I request that those persons be subject to an exception, i.e. those persons who require temporary or permanent stay are not obliged to apply a valid travel document unless they can be supplied to the Republic of Croatia without separation from the family especially when it comes to the separation of parents and underage children. This entry and formulation has a secure apartment whose erasure is proposed because it opens a space to refuse temporary or permanent stay to persons who are as I have said since birth in the Republic of Croatia, and have no connection with other countries. I think we all agree that persons in these uninvited circumstances should not be further punished and that Amendments 1 and 2 of the national minority clubs in line with the recommendations of the Ombudsman's Office and the opinion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities will strengthen the position of persons who are actually our fellow citizens, not foreigners. I propose to my colleagues and appeal, I will bear in mind that they support our first amendment amending the proposed article 10 in order to protect people from possible permanent separation from the family because they have no foreign travel documents but are firmly linked to the Republic of Croatia. I therefore propose and appeal to my colleagues to support other amendments amending Article 39 in such a way as to protect people who are closely connected to the Republic of Croatia from discrimination because they have no guaranteed housing and because they are under particularly difficult living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26137	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Katazia, for this debate. The following came to the debate in front of the MOST Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26138	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Now, while I'm sitting there listening to the debate, when I look at all the suggestions that come out front, I'm gonna say the biggest club, then I see that I don't think this law should ever be passed. If you saw the consultation on this law started last year in March, we are now in January and if we come to the third reading, well maybe we'll come up with some more, then we'd probably end up in March and at that pace a year at each law. I can understand that there are different views, but I see there are only, so there are 2 sets of amendments that I believe here are that both the Ministry and the Secretary of State to study them so that in this urgent procedure probably what we say here we respect some points of view. I'm so afraid that we're going to put it all under the rug, that then the Minister in the background says we need to change that, and that no one's going to stand by the name and last name of the amendment that he wants to change and determine what's wrong with this law. Or actually someone has to say what we're behind, expose ourselves to the public, and I see it going in the direction that eventually it's going to be that the ministry needs to take that law back, so then you can say here it's good that someone in the Parliament proposes it, so that we have laws. Because when we start discussing strangers, what is it? The law on foreigners is only one part of the wider problem, and that is the problem of demographics, the setbacks we have in Croatia, and we are struggling with it, experts warn us and we solve it so, we catch a little bit of it, and then another piece. But we don't have one whole policy about it. And this is actually an attempt by the Ministry of the Interior, I would say even more technically from those practices that it has out of need on the ground, from an environment that is constantly changing to adapt this law so that they can act more easily. Because we see other countries making these laws, I'd say much more restrictive than ours. They are much under the impression of this immigrant crisis and adapt in a way that even the EU's instances are unacceptable and debated. But we're gonna get to it, let's leave it all together for a year, we don't care what happens. But we'll know how to call the Minister of the Interior when an immigrant shows up at the border, when he stops in some van without doing anything. Well, I can't act when they don't even have a law to act on, so I believe that some of the details that are being presented here right now are certainly not important, but they want to solve the problem that is at our border. That's the problem with me, too, what's going on in the community. These people go through there and somehow they need to get rid of these people. Whether we're helping them, whether or not we're getting back at them, but we need to have some kind of solution that satisfies the interest of the Republic of Croatia. So far, the policy that has been related to the problem of foreigners has been a certain step that we have taken. But here's someone who wants everything that's changed actually was more in favor of the directive, so let's go follow certain orders, so let's translate them directly that come from the EU and we put it into our laws, then we're not satisfied. But we don't have a position, we don't actually have a solution for the problem we want to solve. What we have is the fact that we have become a member of the EU, we have no more obstacles to adopting it, but we also have no obstacles not to make our own solutions which will be that we do not have a standard in relation to the directives or that the conditions in which they are now will be adapted. But here's the research itself saying that any such initiative in Croatia is primarily determined by our socio-economic conditions and policy has no power to resist. We cannot say that the great unemployment, the economic uncertainty that this does not represent a significant factor which, in fact, is a factor of opposition and within that context, then other reasons arise that dominate and create topics that turn away from the path of a solution to the problem. And we are always entering a new context, and then this law should no longer be called the Foreign Law but should have certainly a much bigger one, a broader title that would cover all the problems in Croatia, as it is now presented seems to be not good to someone and we will not solve the problems we should. We see that as regards the adoption of certain directives, we already have a pilot in place, when another law comes to the pilot, it means or we don't want as a state, we have a state view that we don't want to accept that it violates our interests, we fight the commission, or we simply can't agree. I don't know if we have that attitude here. I can't see. I see it's sooner that we can't make a deal, and that's the message we're sending from this esteemed home. 20 I also read here in the introduction made by the ministry, 22 directives, recommendations, decisions, resolutions, all this is something and a number of other shortcomings that have not been observed have been integrated into the draft of this law and even three directives on posted workers. As long as I was a minister as much as I had our companies coming in, and that's the problem of the addressed workers communicating with us, there's a problem. So we don't want to solve things with us, and we don't want to solve our companies when somewhere else they have a problem with how we're going to call when we don't even have national legislation. And if I don't go back to the question of seasonal workers, here we have now that it's also quotas for labour, it's going to be immediately touched, it's increased from three thousand and something to seven, but I'm not just saying it's three thousand foreign workers, or it's seven thousand foreign workers, but if you look at that decision, in fact, which we're bringing here. So I would agree that we bring in IT engineers to bring in highly qualified what we all want. Unfortunately, it seems that it has become a rule that we cannot solve the problem of our own, how much there is almost no full of 240 thousand unemployed, we cannot solve it, but then it is easier to gnaw around the number of quotas that we have allowed and whether we really have such an education that we cannot provide from our young labour force that will be in the construction industry, which will be in shipbuilding, which will be in tourism. When I was coordinator when it came to me, I couldn't believe it when someone told a tourist animator. We need to bring the tourist animators here because our people seem incompetent so that maybe someone, an employer, would train them to be ready for the season and that they would definitely realize the possibility of employment here. No, it's much easier for us to find a cheap solution, go to BiH, go to Ukraine, eat and pull workers from there. And then we come to the paradox, here I was in Germany a little bit visiting, and even there, people laugh when someone comes who's a stranger who doesn't understand, and then they say they're the worst jobs, they're the ones that work for 8.5 euros, that's what's not recognised, and we actually degrade certain types of jobs and degrade and those workers that come from other countries and give them wages below the standards that we want to pay for us. How will we cope with our minimum wages if we offer someone else such jobs? What's very important is this law that needs to be taken into account, and it should only be noticed that one of the measures is the restriction of freedom of movement, in fact, it's that they can't be forced away from the centre for the detention of foreigners. If you return only to the events that we had at the Advent Fair in Berlin, there is also a case that justifies why this measure must be taken because that attacker, Anis Samri, had a criminal past, he was in Italy convicted of a crime. They couldn't keep him because they didn't have the legal basis to hold him until his country of origin deliberately, accidentally issued documents or stalled him, and they let him go. After they let him go, this man goes to Germany, kills a man there, takes his truck, and runs into a bunch of people. And then finally we ask ourselves, and who's to blame? Whether we ask ourselves here in this House or whether the people will ask us if we leave such laws to be passed in some future time that we don't know when they will happen, and in the meantime, things that we don't want to do, that we condemn to others, and we create assumptions that they are just like that. So if we don't want such anise, we need to agree on what minimum standard we want in this law, if we need to agree with the MUP and let's say that we have a consensus. About what we don't all have to go out and say here we think the difference is and we suggest it as a solution. This way I don't see a solution, all I can see is that let's just postpone the decision to solve this one more time. And now, I was going to say that this debate will be constructive, that this debate will be helpful to the Ministry of the Interior but I see that after this, it seems that the minister does not have to say the third reading but to withdraw the law and say when you are ready for an emergency procedure then we will show up again and we will do it because I believe that the problems that arise by not implementing this law require exactly an emergency procedure and not a second rather than a third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26139	I thank my distinguished colleague Tomislav Panenic for the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26140	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Panenic, it is clear to me that you are defending your minister from your quota, but it is not your minister's fault for such a law. And this law was in principle to be created in cooperation between the Ministry of Labour and the pension system and the Ministry of the Interior. Because this is a proposal for a law that only has one goal to transpose three EU directives into our legislation. The ministry took advantage of the opportunity and went to this part of the criminalisation of solidarity, and then we came to the conclusion that people who give a glass of water or a sandwich can be arrested but what is the primary goal of the State Secretary is to transpose the EU directive into this law. And it is better to give it to third reading than to transpose the directives in this way because it is obvious that they have been transferred without the help of professional people from the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Because if you say in the bill that the government can bring quotas and you don't say that the government has to bring quotas, if you say in law that seasonal jobs can be determined and you don't say which and in what way you clearly don't protect your labour market. And it is better that this law goes into second reading, that both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of the Interior finally sit down and lay down a law that will comply with the directive but protect our labour market, our citizens who are looking for a job in Croatia, and not to give you instead of having a highly qualified workforce leaving Croatia because he didn't have a job for them and that we had an unskilled workforce coming in uncontrollably. And that is the goal of this law, which unfortunately did not meet that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26141	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26142	Dear fellow Mrsic, of course, I'm fighting for my minister and I'm going to fight because I've spent a lot of times together in the government and I know when this initiative was launched in March last year and I know what he's up to. And his intention certainly doesn't work so-called. Gold plating that this law must be up to every detail, to satisfy every detail than it wants to be operational so that it can pass on to people on the ground the treatment that will be effective. I'm not personally afraid, and I live in an area where your immigrants pass, they probably pass, and maybe these days and they keep going, and I'm not afraid if I help them... the basic one if I point them in some direction and I know I might break the law, I'm guilty, but I sure as hell know the police won't get there and they'll sanction me. It was a clear intensity when this came up against those who put themselves in a van of dozens of refugees and wanted to manipulate them, they wanted to make money on them. So we have Serbia all over the country, a country that works like that, that transports organizedly, how can you explain that I don't know myself in the Strošinci border showing up at 3,000 immigrants at once? Could it pass in Croatia that 3,000 people will pass through Croatia and deliver I don't know at the Slovenian or Hungarian border and say that's what happened. No, it has to be a law like this, and it has to be punished precisely by those who want to make personal use of the troubles that people have. Therefore, this law, I will surely support it and this is the way I stand and in the name of the club to cultivate then that it is a law that we must agree on and we must bring it forward as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26143	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished colleagues, Željko Lenart, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26144	Thank you, Vice President. So here's what we often see in copying these European directives from trees, and then we interpret it in a variety of ways. I think this law has been under discussion for a long time and the trends in Europe have changed pretty much as regards the closure of Europe for those who come in this refugee wave. So we noticed that Germany had changed politics in this relationship to those people who were coming. As for these refugees and asylum seekers, I have come from Kutina, we have lived with asylum seekers for many years, and sometimes there have been some problems about it, but now something has changed. So I'm not the one who discriminates against all those people. But we must be careful in making this law from that position that Europe closes down without us getting caught up in this story that with this law we remain open and we will be a appendix in which all these people will accumulate and we will not be able to move on because Europe will close its laws. And right here, the directives and guidelines that we receive from Europe need to be carefully studied and thus properly set up that law. I'm sorry that Mr. Richembergh is gone, he said that the Croats are from Iran, but one theory says that there are two lines of people one is a Krapina man another Basque man. This Krapinski has gone a little bit to the Middle East down to Iran, so he's back so much more than we think is Zagori. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26145	I thank my esteemed colleague, Leonard. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26146	I wouldn't want us to just be under the impression that this is about immigrants from the areas of Iraq, Syria and those countries that appear. This law also solves problems and people, foreigners, sometimes foreigners we meet from the origins of Croats, I think other, third generations who have lost Croatian citizenship and live, come to live here, have problems solving their problems or also solve problems from Croats who are in neighbouring countries and want to achieve their rights maximum. Therefore, one thing we need to clearly distinguish is to say such desired immigration and which we want to enable, and on the other hand, the problems that when we come to tens of thousands of immigrants that we don't have the capacity to solve, I would say that this bad situation has actually helped us if we had a good situation with us that these people want to live here, we would surely have passed this law long ago because we would have been forced. This way we may have time to be wise, so we keep looking for 10 solutions. And of course I agree that these directives should be studied, they should be implemented with us but we must certainly have our own contribution. Because the minister, too, is how many times he's been away from the government's session. Where was he? He was at the border, the EU's external border where problems are solved. Therefore, we will not solve the problems of immigrants in Croatia, but we will solve it together if it is an EU policy, it will be common and will solve it right where we most easily stop them, and that I am sure, and by what was so far, it will not happen that these immigrants end up in Croatia and create a problem for us. Because I'm sure it would be a problem if we didn't have the ability to pass not only the law, but the implementation of any other law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26147	I thank my colleague Panenic. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26148	Thank you, Vice President Panenic. In your debate, you expressed your dissatisfaction that this law has been passed for a long time and that you expect this House to be more effective. And I agree with you here that we must make the law faster, that it is too long to pass one law for a year or two days. However, we expect from you or the people in the government to study all the details and study the directives and come before us with quality suggestions that will then be acceptable. And I don't think anyone would have anything against this law and I don't think anyone would mind us being here to pass this law. But the problem is that it's changing 123 articles, which is a series of amendments, which is what the HDZ Club asked for to go into the regular procedure. So make a deal in the government in which way we'll pass the law and which materials we come here to the assembly. And here we also see that both the SDP and the HNS and we, out of opposition against this kind of lawmaking, and especially in the segment, is what bothers me and us in the HSS that we haven't used all the elements of labour market protection, the protection of the domestic worker. In my view, this law would be a tool to resolve in a certain way and to employ in the Republic of Croatia. Austria can say no employment while an Austrian is on the job market for the unemployed. And I think that needs to be solved in Croatia. I agree with you that there should be wider stories about this problem, that the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Education should sit together and see with employers who are the profile of workers who need our and the catering and tourism sectors and shipbuilding, in which way they are retrained to reach these qualifications, be employed. And what's very important is that they have wages to live on. Because you won't tourist... in Dubrovnik for 4 to 5000 kuna, because as long as he pays for accommodation, food, there's nothing left for him, not that he's incompetent or something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want all our workers to get quality qualifications, get a quality job and have a better chance than strangers. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] That's what other countries do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26149	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his replica. Answer, dear fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26150	Thank you, dear colleague Vlaovic. I think you've touched actually what's behind it. Here we want to have people who will form the labour market. It's not just the labour market, it's also new needs, new people coming looking for their place of residence, housing. They're looking for certain other things. I think that's what Germany is doing successfully. All these years it attracts new people to come and it is good as it attracts Croats or people who are similar to us who have integrated, who there in the second generation become German citizens who speak perfectly German. And only maybe here should change that we don't have what C's in, something else so we can be even more acceptable. Then we can say we're from Austro-Hungarian. Here it is, you've noticed well, so we'd like to. But given what I've mentioned, it's a difficult situation. So we still have a large number of our unemployed, but we can see that it's selective. If we're looking for shepherds, then we probably mean someone from Romania should come. But I see that the time is changing, that a Romanian becomes more developed than we do. And it will be a time when we will be able to import such power if we don't return exactly what you said to education, to dual education, to the needs that we have, then we'll sort it out. This way, every year, we'll just solve the consequences of making decisions. So I say let's not put ourselves in a position to deal with the consequences of this law too later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26151	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. This is what we used up the replicas after this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Bozo Ljubic appeared for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26152	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners whose aim is to explain the harmonisation of laws with EU directives. However, my fellow MPs have reasoned that this law needs some more amendments that are not only about the directive, so the amendment that I have sent, i.e. on behalf of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, falls within that category of change. In fact, the existing law is restrictive not only against foreigners like one previous debater but is restrictive towards Croats who do not have Croatian citizenship, especially those who live in overseas countries or those who for any reason have had to give up Croatian citizenship in their present countries of employment and residence. So, according to estimates of relevant institutions in the Republic of Croatia around 3 and a half million Croats live outside the Republic of Croatia, only one part of them has Croatian citizenship. Given that this state and I think there is a consensus in the Croatian Parliament about running an active demographic policy under which immigration is under, then the legislation of the Republic of Croatia should be in line. So the aim of my amendment, if this law still goes according to emergency procedure, if not as a material for the proposing to bring this law into line, is to allow members of the Croatian people without citizenship the same rights as to entering residence, work, employment, education in the Republic of Croatia as well as Croatian citizens. Of course it is the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia, of course it has been translated into the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. One of the previous calls by the Parliament, specifically in the previous assembly of the Parliament on a parliamentary issue by Mr. Ilija Filipovic to change the Foreign Law and to allow Croats without Croatian citizenship to resolve their status, then Prime Minister, Mr. Milanovic replied that the Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia would propose these amendments and additions to the law. It's not done until today. However, something else has been done, the adoption of the Law on Croatian Citizenship has even made it difficult for Croatian citizens or Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to be concrete, and even some Croats from those counties where there are no data on citizenship. So these are all reasons that we on the board decided to react by amendment because I say the law was provided for in an emergency procedure. The amendment is also in line with the legislation of the Croatian so far, because the Law on the Employment of Foreigners, which was in force before the adoption of this Act on Foreigners of the existing, basic amendments on which we are discussing today, read in Article 1(3): "Croats with foreign citizenship or without citizenship are not considered foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law". Therefore, this amendment, which proposes a committee, which reads: "Croatians with foreign citizenship or without citizenship are not considered foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law" was already an integral part of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this amendment is also in line with the obligation to comply with legislation in which the relevant provisions for members of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia are with the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this amendment and this provision are in line with the legislative practice of EU countries that regulate the status issues of non-citizens and foreigners who intend to move in and seek residence and citizenship or only want a residence permit and work in those countries. In fact, German laws distinguish a stranger from an ethical German but in their basic law. In Article 116, paragraph 1 reads: “The laws distinguish between an ethical German and give him and his wife the rights that do not give to strangers. ” Italian laws also determine "Italian citizenship is based on the principle of origin by which Italian was born of a father and mother of an Italian woman". Slovenia also distinguishes an ethical Slovenian without citizenship from a foreigner. The Law on the Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders in the section of the status of Slovenians without citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia determines the rights of that category of Slovenians. So in Article 58, it states "the Republic of Slovenia is the home country of all Slovenians, which is why it also recognises to Slovenians without citizenship in its territory a special status which provides special rights and benefits for the appointed ones". Article 60 states: “Slovenian ethnicity (Slovenian origin) is proved by a copy of the Motherbook of born and other authentic documents. ” Article 1 also states: “It is not the condition that the ancestors of the person who wants to get status come from areas where the Republic of Slovenia is today, the ancestors of the person who wants to get status can come from outside the present borders of the Republic of Slovenia” or in Article 66 of the Article 66 “Slovenians without citizenship determine the rights and, among other things, the right to acquire ownership of property under the same conditions as those of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the advantage of candidateing for job vacancies if they meet the conditions for doing business in front of other foreigners, where they are referring to foreigners who are not EU citizens. The right of persons with the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship as referred to in Article 1(1) of this article must be respected by all employers in the Republic of Slovenia." So without these repairs concerning the rights of Croats without citizenship and without these changes in the law, especially the Croats living in countries where there is no Croatian consulate are affected. Croatians who had to ask for leave from Croatian citizenship to keep jobs in Austria, Switzerland, Germany, the second and third generations of Croats who live especially in the overseas countries, who get Croatian citizenship very hard and slow, and here it has been pointed out several times in these problems. Croats from BiH who do not have Croatian citizenship yet, who come to work in Croatia, many are forced to work in black because their request lies somewhere in the consulate or in some police administration in the Republic of Croatia. So that this law, as counterpart Panenic said, in addition to migrants solves the issue of Croats without Croatian citizenship, then this amendment of mine, our amendment from the board would not be necessary. In addition to all this, when we take all this into account, and the amendments proposed by the Ombudsman, a total of 11 amendments and these reasoned debates we have heard, I truly welcome the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club that this law goes to another reading because there are many other problems. Here one of the MPs pointed out the problem that the spouses who were diplomats, I also point out the problem of Croatian citizens who have family members of the wife, wife, children who are not Croatian citizens, and who stay in Croatia for any reason, job, humanitarian reason etc., and cannot take out valid documents in the Republic of Croatia in fact that the countries of their citizenship do not have diplomatic and consular representation in Croatia, so they are forced to separate families, children from parents, husbands and wives from each other to go to their countries of origin. So these are all reasons that actually motivate us to resolve this issue, and of course I say hello that this law goes into another reading and then this debate and this amendment that we have attached on behalf of the board are actually material that will help the ministry or the competent ministries prepare an appropriate proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26153	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26154	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Ljubic, in your presentation, I heard the word "restrictive application of the law to Croats outside of Croatia. If I can state this example here publicly, it happens to our Croats here specifically in Županja, the man who is registered at one address has a Croatian ID card, lives in Bosnia Posavina, otherwise from Bosnia Posavina invites him to the MUP to come and say nicely you have a Croatian ID card, says I have, give it to me and just cut it off. And the end, done. No explanation of where you are, what you are, what you're for anyway. It happened to the same girl who works in Brussels, in Vukovar the same thing happened because she wasn't home, they cut her ID card. At our borders, however, in our Vukovar-Srijem County police, Serbs who sleep in Serbia, live in Serbia, return to Croatian affairs, and nothing happens to them. I ask again whether only the laws of the Croats relate that every little thing must be respected and that the Croats do not let God come from America, from Australia from all over the world for six months can't get a ID card in our consulates, in our offices. And that is the shame, we must first fight for the interests of Croats outside Croatia, their interests of protection, try to motivate them to come to the Croatian state to live also those who have no money and those who can invest with very, very, very easy receipts of paper and other documents they need. However, here we are making restrictive laws and we would not give God from, as soon as he came from Syria give him, or no matter I am sorry for these people from whatever country we are not then enough Democrats and the moment should give them papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26155	Thank you, dear fellow Muscle. I'd like to ask you one more time. The next time you have a hearing, we'll compensate for one minute. Answer, dear colleague Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26156	I mean, my colleague Misic, we agree, of course, on the essence of this problem. Therefore, both this basic law and therefore the amendments and additions to the laws proposed by the Ministry or by the Government actually address the problem of people from third countries of their stay, employment, etc. Noting that the problem of EU citizens has been resolved. And in fact, our priority should be to solve the issues of our countrymen who, as I said, have over 3.5 million in the world and only one small part, therefore has solved Croatian citizenship and some will never solve it. After all, and through this law, so I do not want to say that through this law we will solve all these problems so Croatian, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia without Croatian citizenship but part of it we will, the rest will have to be resolved through the Law on Citizenship and other laws and regulate those rights to obtain citizenship in a easier way. Because in fact many of us here have repeatedly found that the basic problem of Croatia is therefore the problem of demographic erosion that we have been suffering for years, and lately for here and for economic reasons. In fact, our goal is to involve Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in the social, political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia and through these laws and through the Constitution where we will, through the Election Law, where we will both vote, and e-voting, and a lettering vote, and thus actually motivate these people to come to Croatia, to move in, to invest, and thus contribute to overall social development by calculating both demographic and economic and every other reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26157	I thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26158	Dear fellow Ljubic, we have touched on the subject of Croats, and we can speak primarily of BiH and Serbia where we have not solved the problem. We haven't solved the meaning since we've been, here's 25 years as we admit and the club that's sent this to another reading how many times has he had a chance to solve it? Let's go back to why there's never been a decision to get rid of when maybe the political conditions were better, when the economic situation was better, when we add the consensus I think there's always been and no one to make that decision. I don't know if they've all been anti-rubbers so far, so now we're going to be the real Croats in 2016 because we have a consensus or it's simply a deeper problem that we haven't dealt with enough to find a solution for these people's problems that they face in a country they consider parenting. And I agree that these Croats who are here with all their problems consider us a country of origin and I agree that we should solve the problems. Whether this is the Foreign Law, when I think of the fact that we Croats belonging to the Croatian Corps will declare a foreigner then he would say that he does not belong under this law, he should belong under one special law and I exactly expect that the proposal will come from your club to finally resolve the issue of Croats belonging to the Croatian Corps that we simply do not have to consider it under every law that comes as a special provision that will be put in place somewhere. That maybe we've solved a detail and never solved the question that's been bothering these people this whole time. And we see here, especially after the EU has joined them, it's getting harder and eventually what they crossed over the field yesterday is the border they can't cross.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26159	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. The answer to the line, Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26160	Since the beginning of your debate, I have understood an illusion in fact that HDZ is in fact in some way responsible for what this issue is today that we are solving with this proposal, which has not been resolved before. I'm just going to remind you that this law on foreigners, so this basic version that we're talking about today, is going to bring us changes and additions to 2012. That's what I was talking about in my debate. But it doesn't matter now. And, of course, it's not just the role and mission and responsibility of HDZ or HDZ Club to solve this issue. Finally, this amendment, which reads Croatians with foreign citizenship and without citizenship, is not considered to be foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law, was unanimously adopted on the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, where, as I say, members of almost all clubs participate. So your club and SDP, etc. etc. Therefore, it should be, therefore, the responsibility or consensus of Croatian politics, regardless of who the government is, who the opposition is because they are the interests of the Republic of Croatia. And this debate of mine and this amendment that I have explained on behalf of the board is, in fact, the least relevant to the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. They can easily reach Croatian citizenship due to the proximity of the Republic of Croatia, due to several consulates of the Republic of Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is primarily about Croats living in countries and abroad, in diaspora and especially in overseas countries, and it is known that there are even no consulates in some South American countries where they can solve the issue or even submit a request. Thus, it is that through the Foreign Law we only solve a part of the problem to enable these people to enter, stay, hire, school. Of course, he will not automatically have all the rights that Croatian citizens have, the right to vote, etc. etc. This will be resolved through Croatian citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26161	I thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic for his reply. With this, we have exhausted the replicas of this debate. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's the debate going on, but I think we're dealing with problems that weren't meant to change this law. So the ministry could have gone that way, which would have probably been simpler because then there wouldn't have been this much debate. Because obviously this debate that was today deserves a new version of the Foreign Law with all these examples, the amendments we've heard today. However, I would like to mention that the main objective of this proposal for a law is to implement three important directives – the Directive on the implementation of the Directive on the posting of workers in the context of the provision of services, the Directive on the conditions of entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment in the status of seasonal workers and the Directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in the context of intra-Community migration. These are the three directives that we had to transpose into this law, and apparently, when the ministry opens up the issue of the law, it wants to solve other things, and so it got involved in things that were not the main objective of amending this law. The objective of mentioning the three directives is to ensure a uniform approach by all EU Member States to regulate immigration policy and its impact on labour market policies of EU Member States. Provide free access to foreign nationals of countries outside the EU. Because as you know for EU citizens, our market is free except for those who have banned us, so we and them are. The Directive allows you to impose certain restrictions on transposition into national legislation in order to protect your labour market and ensure priority in the employment of your own citizens and citizens of other EU members. Therefore, the directive is not only for our citizens, but also for citizens of other EU countries who have the right to work in Croatia under all conditions, as well as for our citizens, and to protect workers by preventing abuse. So third-country workers of this directive protect against possible abuses. So that was the aim of these directives and implementations. I am sorry to have to say again that this goal has not been achieved because the directive itself was implemented by the book without looking inside that there is a provision of legal finesse that we could better regulate our labour market. Because if you put in the law that the government can bring quotas, and you don't put that the government has to bring quotas, then you have the possibility that the governments go and don't bring them, just let the workers from third countries get into the labour market. On several occasions, openness has been discussed here, but it is not a question of openness of the labour market or not, but it is a question of how to implement the directives at the same time, these three EU directives, but also to protect your own labour market and that is the government's task. It's not the job of this Parliament. It is our job to say that it suits us, we will raise our hands for it, but it is not our job to even read the directive, to implement the directive, but also to protect our labour market. Seasons aren't professional labour and let's get this straight. What is repeatedly said is that the professional workforce leaves Croatia 85 thousand a year, a record, and on the other hand, this law, if we implement it like this, would allow us to enter a low-skilled workforce. At the same time, the Government does not propose measures to keep these professionals, meaning our citizens who do not have a job here, go out, and enables the entry of a low-qualified workforce that will result in the downturn of the labour price, and not only for their competitive jobs but also for the price of work for these highly skilled workers. Therefore, Croatia will have some paid jobs and we will not be able to attract the other workforce that we do not have in Croatia. If we are interested in protecting our own unemployed and allowing them to be employed, and not by strangers, any smart government would take advantage of the opportunities provided by these directives. This law is not only a matter of harmonisation with directives as well as the representative of the HDZ Club Mr Bačić has tried to tell us several times, but reflects the government's policy towards our labour market and the employment of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. For example, this mass approval of foreign employment quotas in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, politics itself is not cleverly designed, I have no visions, no strategies how to regulate the labour market so again I mention young professionals leaving us, and we are opening the door for the entry of unqualified labour force. And in that way, and what little jobs we could hire ours from the Employment Service, we shut it down for them. On the issue of regulation and development of our labour market, I should open a wide discussion and I am glad that this goes into another reading, so the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System will finally sit down with you and agree on how to implement these directives because I have not heard anywhere that the Ministry of Labour and Pension System has said anything about these directives, but that's not a job, it's not a cor business, you don't have people who understand the directives and who know those fines that would allow us to protect our labour market. I note again, if this is implemented and in the third reading we open our labour market for uncontrolled labour imports, the consequences could be catastrophic, and the worst one is the reduction in labour prices for Croatia to be a country of low-paid workers, low-skilled workers, a country in which services are provided, and not a country where new added value is created, Croatia to be a richer country than it is. What I'd like to ask the secretary of state, so when it's finished answering me, one very simple question. Do you have any estimates of how many people could enter Croatia as seasons, based on what you wrote in the law? And did you even make any judgments when you wrote this law? Very simple two questions. Is there any idea how many seasons they're going to come in and do you have any judgments? The law itself isn't well written, and I'm sorry we're spinning around here about whether it's MOST's or HDZ's minister, it doesn't matter. We are dealing with the rights of Croatian citizens who have citizenship or do not have citizenship, this needs to be clearly and wisely arranged, but I think the MUP was wrong when it wanted to solve everything all of a sudden. It was only for the directives to be resolved so that the EU would not drive our pilots and not put us on a pillar of shame, because here we are late and we are very late for certain directives and could be dealt with in better ways. Dear gentlemen, if you do not want to publicly reveal the intentions of completely destroying this fragile labour market that has just begun to recover, then this law reveals to you how you favor employers because employers are those who require full liberalisation of the labour market and the opening of the labour market towards unqualified, cheap labour force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26163	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for this debate. We move on to the next individual debate, distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26164	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I'd like to say that often in this esteemed House we deal with the consequences, not the cause of the problem. And now what's going on? We have some laws that regulate the way in which the country enters, etc., but it is evident that these laws are not respected at all, means that many illegal migrants simply pass through our country as, as you would say, as a slave in transit or as a part of a transit or I say they are being kept, without them asking for valid travel documents, means a visa for our country or I don't know a Schengen visa or whatever, which will say that our country is not at all able to keep its borders. That's the problem this law doesn't speak of at all. So we have all the laws on paper, there's no pay-out crime, there's no censorship on paper, there's no censorship on paper, there's rule of law, there's no government, there's no government, but in practice we see that we don't have anything and we don't actually have our own money because our currency is just a bonus for the euro, now they want and the currency is abolished. So we deprive ourselves from day to day of the mark of all possible sovereignty. This policy the current government is going to run for what? Finally, our borders will be abolished, so let's say according to Slovenia and Hungary for starters, otherwise the first measure Hitler's Germany made during Anschlus Austria was the breaking of border crossings and they depicted it as a triumph, i.e. the taking of Austria. The measure will soon be waiting for us, the removal of the currency, to enter the country whoever wants it without any valid paper, etc. etc. And what will our lands eventually come to? We'll have a flag, we'll have an anthem, we'll have representatives who hold their right hand on their hearts and who actually care about Croatia until its sovereignty as well as those who have given their lives in defense of sovereignty actually won't care about them at all, nor do they care because if they cared they would fight for the sovereignty of their own country, for its survival, for its territory etc. Here's a bizarre example, apropo Law on Foreigners and the Czech Vita Jedi case. We on the meaning of this left coast of Danube there are 10,000 hectares that catastranly belong to Croatia, whether Croatia ever went to establish there sovereignty the answer is not. Why? Obviously, there is no need for that in Croatia. Did Croatia, for example, condition Serbia's entry into the EU by returning Sarengrad Ada, or does it mean that its Catastrian territory is returned to Croatia? No, but as a threat to the sovereignty of the Croatian state, who is represented as a threat to the sovereignty of the Croatian state? Whit Jedi. Vit Jedlika is a man who I say according to the Foreign Law, he is deported, he is presented as a challenge and the threat does not know Croatia as a whole what is already, and not a threat to Croatia the integrity of those who are raising foreign interests, those who want to abolish our country's own currency because it is a long-term goal, the long-term goal is to abolish the kuna, introduce the euro, abolish borders, etc. etc. And I end up asking myself one question if free all foreigners will be able to live in Croatia, half a billion of them from across the EU, if we're going to get into a situation where we're going to have one currency of the euro, in a situation where there's no limit, in a situation where anyone can enter our country without valid travel documents, what was the war? What did people give their lives to? The only one who has profited from that war is unfortunately we who sit here in the Parliament, we are well, but the average citizen of our country who survives from month to month, hundreds of thousands of whom have had to leave our country these people have not profited. They are only at a loss, and the people who gave their lives for the sovereignty of a country whose sovereignty was later given up for whom they fought. To what extent is our sovereignty so to speak evaporated evaporated? We've got directives coming up, that's what my colleague Bulj noticed. He says what are directives? Is democracy when the directives come from Brussels and says you have to do this or that? Is that a democracy of dear ladies and gentlemen? Whether in Croatia the people bear power or hair in Croatia have people from Brussels, people who say the Foreign Law will look like this and like this. I have a feeling that we don't make any laws here at all, that we're simply determined any quotas, that you're going to be accepted by so many refugees, I don't know or whatever, you're going to produce so much and so much, in the end we have directives, we have quotas as well as in the age of socialism, as well as in the age of socialism. Nothing has changed, ladies and gentlemen, on television is still one-of-a-kind and there are debates like here we see the Foreign Law, and the question is whether it's the law that plagues our citizens, whether our citizens are more concerned with the extraction of electricity and water, where the man in Split freezes in this winter because his life has been threatened by leaving him without actually living conditions. His own state has unplugged his electricity and water. Some will say it's not human rights, not everyone has the right to electricity and water, those who don't have the money to live in the dark and be thirsty. It's the ladies and gentlemen of politics that this HDZ government, together with the MOST, is unfortunately run by former SDPs, and while people are blocked by accounts, while 500 kunas of debt are taken, while the justice system doesn't work at all, we're discussing here today what? About the Foreign Law, about a law that doesn't even concern the citizens of our country. Why is this Foreign Law a priority, why is it that he came to the front row, why is it not some law to protect people, for example, from the extraction of electricity and water, that provides them with replacement accommodation, so how many homeless people sleep on the trams? In general, the issue of the status of the homeless who are Croatian citizens we are not dealing with this, we are dealing with in the Croatian state the status rights of foreigners, EU citizens and those who are not and ultimately no problems for our people, for our country are being solved. This debate will not change anything or change anything for our citizens, and believe me, it won't be much for these foreigners either because there are few foreigners who come to Croatia because they found a promised land here, a place where they will live and work. After all, even those who left it Serbs at the time of the war, i.e. During the storm they do not want to return to Croatia either. Now we're in the country, this is a paradox. When Serbs were fired in the early 1990s, their business associates thought they were Serbs, so what do I care? But tomorrow the company is gone, and then they're out of a job like the Croats. And when the Serbs went away, they fled from Croatia, and they didn't want to go back, and they didn't want to come back because they had nowhere to go, there's no way back, there's no way to go back, they don't have anywhere to work, they don't have a place to work and they said, "What, don't come back, who cares about them?" However, today the Croats are fleeing from our own, from their own country and are actually threatening to disappear from these areas. These problems, the problem of leaving last year, 82,000 people in this House are not being debated at all. And there's a question that's actually the point of all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26165	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for the debate. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26166	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This law has three essential characteristics. First of all, he's completely falsely reasoned. Second, he's embarrassingly inhuman. And the third one shows a complete misunderstanding of demographics. So let me explain these three characteristics. In light of this reason, it is said that the Foreigning Law rests on 22 EU directives, and is now being adopted because of three new ones. And only for that. And that's why he has the P.Z.E. code. But the HDZ Club knows that the laws that have the P.Z.E. code are. do not put in another reading, but simply adopt the directives because they must be adopted by sending and asking with full justification for this law to be considered in the second reading. But that means that the only reason why this law is passed is because the three new directives are false, false. It is a cover to get into the law something that has nothing to do with EU directives, which has to do with one of the government's xenophobic policies. Why is this law deeply embarrassing and inhumane? When we talk about strangers, then we have to notice that there are two groups of foreigners. One is refugees and exiles, the other is some kind of economic immigration. Let's see this first group of refugees and exiles first. Unfortunately, Croatia had such a destiny that it also received a large number of refugees and exiles from Bosnia in World War II, but also that a number of Croats escaped to third countries, Scandinavian countries for example. Well, if the Scandinavian countries had the law you're proposing here, then our fellow citizens would have had a very bad time. And it's ironic, it's ironic that we, whom others have taken care of as refugees, propose a law like this. He represents this one criminalization of solidarity. He says that a person will be punished, punished if he accepts the accommodation of a stranger, means if he helps a stranger unless it is about ending life, preventing injury or providing emergency medical assistance. He predicts that such a stranger will be expelled without a hearing, so that our war refugees who have arrived in Norway are expelled without a hearing would say that this is deeply inhumane, and today we, not us, but you are proposing such laws. If such provisions are made I swear to you I will write a letter to the Holy Father who has stood a hundred times for the rights of the refugees. I will write to him what a government that otherwise considers itself to be a Christian, deeply Christian, religious government, as it proposes. I'll explain it to him, remind him, he knows, of course, that the whole family was a refugee family from Nazareth to Bethlehem, that Jesus was born as a refugee. And now one such Catholic or country with a majority Catholic population suggests such an xenophobic chauvinist law. It's deeply embarrassing, it's inhumane, it's inhumane. We must be ashamed of that and we are covering it with EU directives. Why is it, if it were actually one I'd say ethnic panic. We are afraid of these foreigners who, of course, are not Croats because they come from other countries, come from the east. And it will violate our ethnic purity of this Croatia and it is very dangerous for us and it is actually an ethnic panic that is very difficult to justify. We'd like to, we're talking, we're gonna help these people, we're gonna help them, and on the other hand, we're afraid they're gonna pollute our space ethnically. Several times it was brought out here in this debate, counterpart Misic at least ten times. Now why he represents a complete misunderstanding of demographics. 82 thousand people moved out of Croatia last year, while we were in power of HDZ blamed our government, politically. Since you came to power, that eviction has been speeding up. Most people usually move out of the area where HDZ is in power, but I'm not going to use it as politically as you do, I'm not going to use it as an argument because people go away for a variety of reasons. They leave first and foremost in search of a better life, for a better profit, and that's legitimate. Well, among other things, we have entered the EU as a single common market, a large labour market. The HDZ representative, Bosnjakovic, said, boasts that while he was a minister in the government, they did not allow work permits for shepherds, although they are not in Croatia. And those who want to do shepherding in Croatia can't deal because in Croatia people don't want to be shepherds, they don't want to be shepherds. They'd rather go to Italy to do other jobs, Germany, Austria, but they don't. So he boasts that he worked in a government that doesn't understand anything at all. That the labour force needed in Croatia must be allowed to be imported. Well, our welders are going to the malls in Italy, and we're going to have welders from Romania, but that's right, that's labour migration. That's what you need to understand. Demography is not only the birth of Croats and these are demographic movements and they should be understood, but only someone who but absolutely does not understand any of this can propose such laws. And finally, it's about the return of Croats from the world, the need to work on it, from Croatia the HDZ state has been in power for 18 years, so look at me that without a party I've been an individual for 18 years in power, all one by one. I'd call them all on the phone one by one. So what did you do 18 years without returning them, what did you do? In the last year alone, 82 thousand left Croatia. But that's what it's all about, but it's nothing but that ethnic paranoia. These people left Croatia with bread, went looking for a better life, and they found it there and were already in the second, third, fourth generation. Blaze that they will return here to Croatia for difficult living conditions, forgive her minus intelligently.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26167	I thank my esteemed colleague, Nenad Stazic, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26168	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You told your colleague Stazić the chauvinist law, the chauvinist government, Christians, so Croatia is a plural society, there are people here in our Parliament and in most and in the minority of people who are Islamic religions, who are atheists. So you said very uglyly that the chauvinist, now that I tell you that you are a chauvinist. ...that we're chauvinists. Where do you see a chauvinist? I live in a village where I live with the Serb National Minority I am extremely proud of these people and as a volunteer of the Homeland War, as people, patriots, patriots and indeed have a good co-existence and I am proud of these people, but your shameful statement that we are chauvenists, that we do not tolerate other people, other people who will come here it is at least possible to respond to the same extent that the chairman did not warn you that the word chauvinist is not fair. I don't see any chauvinists here, only you can turn the thesis that I tell you that you are a chauvinist because you insult someone's religious beliefs or people of atheists or those who are Islam worshiping either Catholics or people of Orthodox religion. It's a very ugly story, Mr. Stazic. The Croatian people helped Muslims, i.e. To Bosniaks from BiH, half a million people in the Homeland War received it. A Croatian soldier in BiH has prevented a Chetnic genocide over Bihac, worse than in Srebrenica. The Croatian man is a human and of course national minority in Croatia and such a difficult qualification to say that chauvinists that ethnic paranoia towards someone is at least regrettable in this House. But I'm more surprised by the chairman who at least gave no warning on those statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26169	I thank my colleague Bull for this replica. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26170	When it is said in one law that a person crossing Croatia's border will be expelled without being heard, when one law stipulates that punishment will be imposed on every Croatian citizen who helps the one who came here, who gives him accommodation, and this bill says it's chauvinistic. And when you've identified yourself as a chauvinist, I can't help you anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26171	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. The Republic was contacted by distinguished counterpart Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26172	... Which went from the Republic of Croatia somewhere wet, I guess, to Italy, to a shipyard. [[Specially enabled.]] And when you said that, I remembered a government a few years ago and a bile debate about how a shipyard wasn't perspective, how it had to be shut down by force. It's a shipyard in the Queen. You probably remember that well because at the time your people were in power. Unlike then, this shipyard now, even though it was closed for work, produces currently one ferry, although the cranes are, the docks were all dragged out of the Queen. It was closed something that worked for a hundred and a few years and experience and knowledge could have been very easily lost that one undertaking fortunately didn't catch up with our homework even though it had to bridge hundreds of barriers to get to work. Still, a few of those welders that you were supposed to have, if the rest had been completely closed, would probably have ended up in that Italy. I want to say that we must not generalize and invoke but accept the fact that your ministers have made decisions that have forced these people out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26173	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26174	The queen stood on her feet and imagine she produced one ferry. No, I don't have two, in two minutes, in 20 minutes, it wouldn't be enough time to list all the economic entities that have been shut down, that have disappeared, that have been destroyed during the HDZ government. Don't make me prepare myself tomorrow and answer you in some replica because that list is huge, and the number of people who have lost their jobs and who, because of your governments, had to leave this country is their name, the Legion. And it would be better to have ears on your head in that respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26175	Dear colleague Stazić and colleague Klaric I would ask you in the future to stick to the topic because neither the Queen nor the other companies have anything to do with the subject of the Foreign Law and I would ask you to choose the words you say in the Croatian National Assembly. Thank you very much. We move on to the next individual debate, distinguished counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26176	Dear Mr. Vice President, I will refer to a specific article in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Foreigners Act, or here we hear that it will probably not be final, so this is not a problem for me to put into the final proposal later. This is an article 18, or article 56, to be amended. In this article, 56 states “The members of the rope family within the meaning of this law are mates, persons who are in the extramarital community, then life partners or informal life partners, children, parents and adoptors.” However, in some laws I would say lower order, which is not organic, those higher order as the Life Partnership Act really mentions that the life partnership of the community of family life is two persons of the same sex concluded before the competent authority. Also, as there is an out-of-marriage community institute, there is the Institute of Informal Life Partnership and it is mentioned that it is also a community of family life of two persons of the same sex who have not concluded a life partnership with the competent authority. I don't think these laws are allowed, that this foreign law must not prejudge something that isn't in that organic law, and that's family law is not foreseen. On the other hand, I must also refer to the Council of Europe directive, which we must also respect, and this is the Council of Europe's directive on family integration, because it is family members that are listed for the purpose of family integration, the article preceding this article is Article 17. So says Article 9 of that directive, family integration refers to family members, or spouses and children. Here we put something in this law that is not provided for by the directive and is not provided for by the Family Law, so here is my proposal to change this, or now we have time through two readings to bring this into line with the existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26177	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. Replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26178	Thank you. Here's what I'm going to say to the government. Here's what you said. And she put it on because she... and she put it on because if she hadn't put it on anyway, it would have to apply because Croatia would have paid as paid 40 thousand kuna, it seems to me, according to the European Court of Human Rights, when she discriminated against a person for exactly this reason, as you said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, let this provision stand as it stands is no reason to criticise the bill. After all, it seems to me that this provision was in consultation with the interested public at the beginning of the term of office of the last government. This law, Mr. Panenic spoke on behalf of the MOST club, and then I commended the government of Mr. Oreshkovic for it. Therefore, you will solve your coalition problems within your coalition and what is good in the bill do not ask it out now. And I'm saying that because of the attitude that you've expressed, Croatia has already had to pay, I think it's 40 thousand kuna, according to the European Court of Human Rights for the same situation, so when she discriminated against people who are in a life partnership, the same-sex community because she wouldn't let them join the family under the Foreign Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26179	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bauku, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Zekanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26180	My colleague Bauk, I have just read it today, and I will repeat again under the Council of Europe Directive in Article 9 of the Family Merging refers to family members, i.e. to spouses and children, so that here something is prejudged and here my proposal is also to really define in the Family Law what family members are because it is not mentioned there. Even so, it is indirectly mentioned in several places by parents and children, but it is not in the Family Law that the family members are listed, so it should finally be introduced that we do not have these dilemmas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26181	I thank my esteemed colleague Zekanovic for his reply. Replica esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26182	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Zekanovic, the directive, if you did not know, sets minimum standards. No EU country is, therefore, what it must put in place but is not allowed to set higher standards than what the directive proposes. Therefore, you are completely wrong because the directive again mentions setting minimum standards for all EU countries, and it is for each EU country to accept these standards or raise them to a higher level. And what's done in law I think it's commendable and should stay, let's not go below the level we've achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26183	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. Answer, dear colleague Zekanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26184	Dear fellow, as long as you mention the minimum standards, I have one more thing to mention here, and that is a referendum on constitutional definition of marriage. In the referendum, 65.9% of Croatian citizens voted for marriage to be between women and men. But then later you introduced that new Life Partnership Act, where you actually played the whole story in a very perfidious way. It turned out that the referendum refers to the word “marriage, ” the four letters whether marriage is rather than the institution of marriage. So when we talk about this, we must first of all keep in mind what the Croatian people wanted, and our Croatian people wanted to protect marriage, then to protect the institution of the family, and later, through this law, in a perfiduous way, the expression of family life, so that later and in law, I would say that the members of the family and the informal life partner, i.e. the life partner or not binding under the Council of Europe directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26185	I thank my esteemed colleague Zekanovic for his reply. The following has been reported for individual debate by distinguished counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26186	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's what we heard from the debate about the Foreign Law. We've heard stories about many directives. We're witnessing tireless here and suggestions about chauvinists, ethnic paranoias. Indeed, when we talk about this law, it happens at a time when we have the exploitation of resources and human potentials from the Republic of Croatia, when everything worth young to us because of bad policies, because of the Homeland War goes to a third country. It is a fact and it is evident how many people have left Croatia in the last 15 years and what a demographic picture it is. The result is as I say 2/3 of Croatia are literally empty, Slavonia, Lika, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora. And of course, today when we have crisis situations in the world, and mostly in North Africa and Asia, and that's spreading. We see as I said earlier that refugee crises are so much so that these people run into epic proportions. So, the phenomenon is like the village of the people. It's just that the states on the map are overwritten. They are still seen on the map simply, no longer in these areas of many countries, and of course there is no more, there is terrorism, there is what is threatening the existence of these people. However, among refugees, we also have those who are causing great evil to Western civilization, i.e. by populating certain areas. To today's Western world, and that's what we see as a threat to terrorism. In this debate, it is evident that it has been seen from a human aspect that certain people who are in a difficult situation need of help. However, it is necessary to tell what help is, and what is the exploitation of human victims and the collection of these people in order to transfer them because we have many largely refugees, we have many situations where people were literally in vans in various vehicles, trucks simply dying for the sovereign Republic of Croatia, which is internationally recognised 25 years ago, the demographic picture is catastrophic, and policies have not done what they need to do. So these laws we make about foreigners under the EU directive before joining the EU have not been warned with this people. We must respect as well as a number of other laws which Croatia must now simply respect. When I come to Parliament every day, there's a directive waiting for me. I still don't understand whether it's a directive or an order, an order. And imagine in the Parliament in which we are here at this point, unanimously there was a vote to join the EU or so. a referendum when in one village you want to move the road to the foot of the leg, then when you call a referendum triba you 50 plus 1 vote. And it was such a marketing that it didn't take that long. There have been no public debates of relevant, true for and against. I'm back at the same time when I was an ordinary citizen, I wasn't, and now I'm but in the role of MPs, the stars are shining. Croatia will flourish, Croatia will be brought, you know where Croatia is brought? Research, saying that a billion people, I said, want to come to the EU area, and we have left empty, unprotected spaces both in Croatia and in BiH where Croats are inhabited, unprotected. It's all the policies that have been implemented here, that's the fact. We talked a little before about the Split Smuggling, let's go to the workings that are liberalized I am personally to protect the Croatian worker, if what have we done? We've lost hundreds of thousands of people, now there's no one to work with. But by introducing laws and these EU directives, which are mentioned here liberalising each time, the number is increasing so that people from other countries come to work in the Split Square and others who are much cheaper labour than Croatian workers who are much more quality, experienced and go to third countries, in Vietnam. Or our cattlemen went to live where they dealt with agriculture in Slavonia went west. Now it's no longer a problem to buy cattle, but who's gonna guard the cattle? And we have empty hectares and numerous stables or farms empty. And when we talk about this law, Croatia must be clear there and it should be clear to the politicians that Croatian territory is empty except the Zagreb area and a few major cities. It's very simple to check, just pass through Lika, Gorski kotar. And the policies are terribly bad on this issue, everyone is calling for regional development, for even development, but the fact that the state is centralised, that living well around Zagreb will unfortunately be the pressure of foreigners on Croatia. There's going to be a lot of pressure on those empty areas if they want a billion people to come live here. I believe that the law... liberalization of the legislation of liberalisation of the market i.e. The labour force that will come here, in the case of quotas that rise and descend, should be protected by Croatian workers. And they release a number of directives that are former governments and I see former ministers reporting a lot, so we continue today, I think we need to protect and change immediately. The EU won't give us much, we can laugh. Let's put our trust in each and every peasant says that, the simplest peasant. Academic educational citizens have led this country to Croatia for the past 20 years, elites, creams have brought the country into this situation. That's a fact. And no one's responsible for the situation. Maybe someone's been peeling potatoes for a day, two, three. We need to be serious about these laws, the Croatian state is becoming more empty, demographically exploited maximum, what is worth going to third countries and I think we need to be much stronger in this law, mainly in the workplace than for workers, labour, and protect the Croatian educated man and ordinary worker. But this is all the consequences of the bad policies in agriculture, the tycoons have been favored, the energy has been all over the place, and unfortunately those who, by some criteria, should have not had a chance, searched for their chance in third countries, and now we have to protect ourselves, protect ourselves and try to get back that Croatian people and people who went outside to come back. If we liberalize at that speed of light, the price of work will come to the bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26187	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26188	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull. And we don't have much opportunity to correct the EU directives by signing an access contract and by implementing the directives, these are orders. So we order that we transpose EU legislation into our legislation. ... are recommendations and it is something to talk about, but the directive is a directive and it must be applied to our legislation. But there is still a matter of knowledge, opportunities and ways to implement the directive, is this directive leaving the possibility for EU countries to adapt their labour market to the directive, but also to make certain anchors not to open the labour market for third-country workers. They are not EU workers here. Romania and Bulgaria and Poljak and the Czech Republic can also come to Croatia to come here and get a job as well as our worker, so we are very clear here. But this is about third-country workers who should stop employers from exploiting the workforce. I note that even at the time of the HDZ government's working permits either between five and ten thousand, during the time of the SDP government only with two thousand dropped to a thousand. Here again last year or this year, so for this year we have seven thousand work permits, probably with a tendency to further increase, and there's the wisdom of the government, that for those jobs where we don't have our labour force, we have to have it because employers have to work but it doesn't have to be philosophical. And in such a way as the directive was implemented in this law, we open the labour market to import cheap labour, leading to an even greater exodus of young people from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26189	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26190	Thank you, colleague Mrsic, for the replica. So as I said now is exploiting resources both economic, natural and human potentials, which is the worst, human resource is the most valuable. This is the fact that it happens in Croatia, human resources and potentials that are capable of bringing new value to Croatia. They went to third countries for reasons like I said because of directives or orders. And I said that 25 years have passed since, we've celebrated since international recognition. The Republic of Croatia, however, would now be an unfortunate... EU order, so that we are a republic where we should be free, we have lost part of sovereignty and the people have decided by a non-half majority rather than decided on a referendum that was counter-constitutional to enter the EU in this way. That's a fact, in the last year, the Constitution has been changed, no matter how it was voted, it's the fact that it's reduced below 50% one vote and let's mention what you said people are leaving, of course and cheap power is coming. The problem isn't that a split squire or some squire fell apart, welders, workers, professional people went to other countries. Now I don't know what kind of energy to give us back the boot, we can't because we lost those people, that's the problem. We now have a huge problem in these human potentials that other countries draw for us but it is because of politics, because of Croatian policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26191	Thank you very much to dear colleague Mir Bulje for this answer. On behalf of the promoter, state secretary Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26192	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to thank everyone for this constructive debate. It's very difficult to look back at all the prominent things. Questions relating to the Law on Croatian Citizenship and the Law on residence would be left for another debate. However, I do have a need to look back on things that are repeatedly highlighted in this debate, which are simply not true, which is that the amendments to this law wanted to push through something that is not in the spirit of European laws or good practice of European states, which is about criminalising solidarity. The first thing to do is to distinguish between legal and illegal migration. So this provision applies only to those foreigners who have entered, resided or passed through this country as such. For legal migrants there is a Law on International Protection, so asylum seekers have all the rights and they are taken care of. Regarding this provision, help is forbidden, or what is now being introduced, and an attempt to help is also prohibited. It is important to note that there is a directive on assistance that punishes aid unfortunately. So that frame is ours. Helping is punished, and it must also be punished for trying to help. So that part we don't have to, that part we can't influence. The European Commission's remarks are precisely why we have received, and that is to try to punish, the attempt to assist is not punishable. So it's not about something we wanted to get under the grain. So what we are in these defined frameworks that we have, and that is that helping or trying to help, must be punished is this article that we have now collegeed, and that is what is considered to be a definition of what is not thought of by helping, and that is exactly aiding done for humanitarian reasons. So no one can say that they will punish the person who gives the migrant a glass of water, feed him, secure his accommodations, take him to the doctor. And if we had interpreted this law that way, the entire activity of this country during the migrant crisis would have been subject to some kind of punishment. So that's out of the question. Of course, I think it's clear to everyone that these are humanitarian reasons. For those people who do not understand it, we have then been in parentheses and for these provisions explained what is considered humanitarian reasons. And that, too, to be clear, these reasons are not made up by the Ministry of the Interior but by the recommendations of the Human Rights Agency. So we can't talk about criminalising solidarity. What is more, we are still calling for decriminalization of aid according to special regulations. There are a number of other regulations under which helping is not a criminal offence. Regarding the part relating to the labour market, it is important to say if that is not clear, so the labour market is not only the Republic of Croatia but rather the labour market within the EU where we know there is freedom of movement and freedom of service. The provisions relating to the working legislation of foreigners therefore relate to workers, third-country nationals. As regards the allegations of Mr. Mrsic's esteemed representative that this law is the product of this government and its shameful policies, I really believe it is necessary to note that this law is a product of the government to which the honourable representative was a member. The foreign law came into force in 1.1.2012 when you were head of the Ministry of Labour. If you really wanted to spend all this stuff you're up for right now, you had time to do it. Regarding your suggestion that working-legal matter should not be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior I fully support this proposal and I can tell you that with the Minister of Labour it is in principle agreed that this matter should be singled out and returned to the Ministry of Labour in which it belongs naturally. So as far as that goes, that part will be regulated to a new one. It is incorrect to assume that seasonal activities are too wide or that they are not defined anywhere. They are specifically defined in Article 2 paragraph 13 of this proposal for the laws of agriculture, forestry, tourism and hospitality. It is also an incorrect assumption that the Croatian labour market is not being protected, it is being protected through quotas that are determined according to the state of the labour market, i.e. taking care of the number of unemployed Croatian citizens, but also taking care of the Croatian labour market, which includes employers taking care of their needs. If these needs cannot be met with Croatian workers, it is necessary to help them find these workers among foreign citizens. The claim that seasonal workers are not protected is incorrect because Article 25 of this proposal prescribes how these rights are protected, so that they are subject to minimum wage provisions and all other working conditions as applied to Croatian workers. And about that statement of yours, it can determine the odds of what that means? Well, that means that the government doesn't have to, and it doesn't have to in those situations when it estimates that there are enough seasonal workers in our labour market, then it won't bring a quota, and foreign seasonal workers won't be able to get a job. In conclusion, I would like to point out that these changes really exceed the scope of what we call amending the law and that because of the breadth of the topic it regulates has become difficult to apply and is not the best possible product. This government is aware of these facts and for this reason a working group has been formed to develop a new law that will be more clearly structured and divided into three separate units, which are the whole of labour law, citizens of EU Member States and foreigners, or non-EU citizens, and should be more applicable as such. However, given the procedures in place for the expiry of the deadline for harmonisation with the EU acquis, we believe that for the Republic of Croatia, this law has been approved to enter into force and that it is parallel to making a new, or better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26193	I thank the secretary of state, Mrs. Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26194	Dear Madam Secretary of State, I heard your name Lydia, I kind of skipped his last name, I couldn't understand him. I wanted to say, I listened with the attention of your lecture and I have to say that I liked your approach and that I liked it when you mentioned the words solidarity and helping to carry out the criminal act of illegal crossing the state border. You see when it is helped without compensation, without personal gain, illegal crossing of third-country nationals through Croatia, then it is considered that it should not be punished, that it should be human. But when I personally and my colleagues from the Living Wall helped without compensation, i.e. they were solidarity with families in Croatia who were left without a roof over their heads, driven into the street, and even in these winter conditions there would be one operation 31.1. on Blackbeard 105 then from the Ministry of Interior no one would come and say these people helped, they were solid. There won't be a human rights fighter who will tell you where these people will live. There will be no constitutional experts who will say that the home should be protected, that the family should be protected, etc. etc. I want to tell you that this Act on Foreigners is about a man who helps in illegal, in violation of the law he is being Abbolized, and we see today who are helping, who are solidaritying with families who remain on the street this winter they are still being punished, they are being brought to courts and for them this power as well as Brussels has no mercy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26195	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. The following came to the line from distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26196	Thank you very much, dear secretary of state. Yes, we have passed the law in 2015 and there is a directive on assistance, and I note, however, that the directive gives minimum standards that are implemented in legislation and that what you are doing with criminalisation of solidarity has nothing to do with the directive but has to do with your interpretation of how to punish people who are helping those who are in need. Therefore, you have many more NGOs, as well as the public who have understood it in a way that is understood. So we've given an amendment where we think it's better and easier to solve it cleaner than this way. Therefore, I hope that you will respect this and when the law finally comes that we will have a more transparent and better law. You have also made it clear that the Ministry of Labour and Pension System did not participate in the work because it will be singled out in a special part and that we will finally implement these three directives. Seasonal work, what you stated to be defined is not defined. It is listed as considered seasonal work, but is not defined how many days a year, which period, where and what. It's not on the other hand when you say that the government can bring quotas, instead of the government having to bring quotas, and the quota is that the government will bring a zero quota that's the same quota. Therefore, if you look at the quotas that have been passed in the Croatian governments for certain parts, the individual occupation was a zero quota. So you didn't define, you didn't protect the labour market and you didn't answer my very simple question. You did a calculation of how many seasons, in which time do you have that data, so let me know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26197	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic. Replica response, state secretary Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26198	So, regarding these re-applications to the directive, I still don't understand which part of you don't understand with all due respect because helping foreigners has been banned so far. And despite what has been banned so far in this entire migrant wave, in which over 650 thousand people have passed through Croatia, but nobody has been punished. You know for a fact that the Ministry of the Interior has made huge efforts to take care of all these people. So that part remains unchanged but because of the remarks we received because this aid attempt was not punished we and that attempt had to be included in the law. So that's the part we don't have as much influence on as you might think is different. With regard to quotas, what I mentioned or forgot to mention is that quotas are, for example, fixed for 15 seasonal workers for this year. It means 15 cedars of fruit and vines for the whole 2017. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26199	Dear fellow Mrsic, please, you have had the opportunity to allow the secretary of state to respond to your replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26200	As you know, the labour market is very flexible and needs for a worker or are subject to changes from month to month. So simulations can be very difficult to work on, I don't know how far ahead. So annual quotas like each year when they are defined by the Ministry of Labour with representatives of all ministries, employers and trade unions define the real needs of seasonal workers, so in accordance with the state of the market, and we can't, I don't think it would be appropriate to do simulations in a few years in advance. And regarding the allegations that the Ministry of Labour did not participate in the implementations, these directives were involved, only that the MUP is the holder of this law so that it is responsible for the final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26201	I would like to thank Honorable Secretary of State Lidija Pelivan Stipetic for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26202	Thank you. I'm joining my colleague Pernar with praise for his approach, but I'm going to say a few things that I haven't been fully satisfied with in your approach. You've responded quite in detail to the comment on the debate except for the two that are most interesting to me. One is a comment by my colleague Zekankovic on life partners, and the second is that the two biggest parliamentary clubs to be directed to the next reading, now we want to interpret the third, the other is no longer important, so it would make it easier for us to vote that we know the government's position, if you have the power to state the government's position on the second proposal. And as for my colleague Zekanovic and his remarks, I was wrong to say it is not 40 thousand kuna but ten thousand euros. So BiH citizen sued the Republic of Croatia for human rights because according to the 2011 Foreign Law, the Sisak police refused to apply for permission to stay in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of family reunions wanted to join her partner in Croatia in 2011, so she had not yet talked about the partnership at all as an opportunity. The police claimed that its request did not meet the requirements of the Foreign Law, then they complained to the MUP who refused the appeal, so the Administrative Court in Zagreb rejected the appeal or administrative dispute, and then the Constitutional Court rejected the constitutional suit, so five institutions in Croatia before the adoption of the Life Partnership Act refused the request and the European Court of Human Rights accepted the request. He says that Article 14 of the prohibition of discrimination, Article 8. The Convention on Human Rights and Croatia had to pay 10 euros in compensation and 5,690 euros in court costs, so this is just what they have put into law is just the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling. And without it being written in the law, we'd have to act on it, so it's not good to deal with horns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26203	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. You replicate the secretary of state, not Mr. Zekanovic, and explain later when the session is over. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26204	Well, I'd only like to make a brief statement about the government's position. This government has referred this law to emergency procedures and as such remains at this time. However, it is evident from what is stated that the law will still go into a longer discussion during which we can also look back on your question. In short, I would like to point out that it is not about redefining the concept of family, but only extends the category of persons who have the right to stay, which deals with this law. So, the intensity of this law is not to redefine the concept of family, but in some things we need to comply with national legislation and also with the latest case law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26205	I would like to thank Honorable Secretary of State Lidija Pelivan Stipetic for his reply. This is what we've exhausted the debate. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the representatives of State Secretary Lidija Pelivan Stipetic for these explanations and answers. We continue the meeting tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. on the agenda Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held during 2016. I thank you all for participating in the debate and for a pleasant rest of the day. Cheers! Session interrupted at 18.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26206	The next item is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 59. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The HDZ representative club proposed to the Assembly the following conclusion: 1. On the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z.E. the number 59 was held in the first reading. 1. All objections and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Does the proposaler's representative want to show himself about the proposed conclusion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26207	A proposal is being accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26208	Thank you. Please get involved and let's vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 121 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against have reached a conclusion in the text of the motion. The following is concerning the proposed conclusion by the SDP Representatives' Club to vote without substance since we adopted the previous conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26209	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The contributions to the bill are not multiplied by the optimization of the work and functioning of the Parliament, but are on the Croatian Parliament website. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this and the legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Labour and Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received reports at a session on your benches. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an explanation? Here is Secretary of State Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26210	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the area of entry, residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia has been governed by the Act on Foreigners applicable since 1 January 2012. The law on foreigners contains provisions relating to the entry of foreigners, visas, provisions relating to the stay and work of foreigners, proceedings against foreigners who are illegally staying in Croatia, which special provisions concerning nationals of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. The law on foreigners is in line with a total of 22 directives, recommendations, decisions and resolutions of the European acquis. The procedure for amending and supplementing this law has been launched mainly to comply with the new European acquis in the field of work of foreigners. Three new directives have been adopted following the last amendments to the Foreign Act in 2013: the Directive on the posting of workers in the context of the provision of services, the Directive on seasonal workers and the Directive on foreigners transferred within a society which is transposed through this law into the Croatian legislative system. The majority of the amendments and additions to the applicable law relate precisely to the provisions relating to the regulation of the stay of seasonal workers who will be able to operate on the basis of a permit to stay and work of a seasonal worker, and the basis which can do seasonal work for a total of 6 months per year after which they must leave the Republic of Croatia. More specifically, it is also arranged to maintain the right of members of the family of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area in the event of the death of a spouse or a divorce and the exercise of the right to permanent stay. Due to the deadlines for harmonisation with the above-mentioned directives, which were June, September and November this year, and given that during the course of the EU, the pilot is the procedure for irregular transposition of the Directive on the freedom of movement of EU citizens as well as members of their families in the current law, it is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26211	I thank the secretary of state, Mrs. Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you are, dear colleague Mr. Bozo Ljubic, president of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26212	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues have therefore been coming to the address of the Committee and members of the Committee for a long time and since this last short term called the Croatian Parliament to the address of the Committee President and the members of the Committee, particularly those living outside the Republic of Croatia who are not Croatian citizens because they have found that the existing Law on Foreigners and, in particular, when seen in the context of the Croatian Citizenship Act is very restrictive and in fact, I would say reluctant to our emigrants when it comes to the use of certain rights in the Republic. So we asked for the opportunity to put this issue on the agenda in some way, and here's the opportunity that came up when we adopted this Foreign Law, which is motivated by the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the European acquis. I want to say here that after we received this law and after it was included in the agenda 14.12., the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia held a session and at that session we also considered this proposal as a whole but also in the context of this problem our emigrants have. I can therefore say that the Committee unanimously supported this bill to be adopted in an emergency procedure because it is a matter of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with European legislation, but the Committee has also decided to submit an amendment to my proposal as chairman of a committee which reads "Croatians with foreign citizenship or without citizenship are not considered foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law." Of course, here, Croatia's rights without citizenship in the Republic of Croatia to enter, move, stay, work, and work are also done with certain rights that spouses have, members of Croatian citizenship and their families. So to say, I will talk about this issue later in an individual debate on some details and arguments, and here I would like to make it clear that the concern of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, whether they are Croatian citizens or not the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia, and this constitutional obligation has been introduced, so also in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, its Article 89, which prescribes the part-line work of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia in such a way that the Committee has, among other things, the task of considering all the issues which are of interest of Croatians from the Republic of Croatia, their residence, their immigration, their work in the country, etc. So, I would now conclude with that here and, in a single debate, of course, I'll give the rest of the argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26213	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic. Does anyone else from the board president want to take a word for it? There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26214	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, there are not many of us in the hall and we are discussing laws that concern not only foreign citizens but also our labour market. I am therefore sorry that the State Secretary spent only two and a half minutes on the basis of this law which will have a strong impact on our labour market and on the possibility of hiring our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The introduction of this bill makes it clear that the basic purpose of the adoption of the law is to align it with the three EU directives adopted in 2014, each in its own way affecting labour migration in the EU. The proposal for a law amending the Act on Foreigners with the implementation of the Directive also makes certain amendments to existing legal institutes and introduces some new ones. Let me look back at some of these. One of these is also the proposed alternative retention institute, which follows international legal standards and principles of application of the detention exclusively as extreme measures. Unfortunately, though, this is the only change that is commendable to other changes in this area is not so commendable. Some amendments have been made independently on directives, such as the abolition of the possibility and the granting of travel documents for foreigners on a temporary or permanent basis, and some are stricter and more repressive than the provisions of the Directive. The most important is certainly and is the most alarming institution for criminalisation of solidarity, the measures envisioning the criminalisation of solidarity extend throughout the bill. They do not represent individual isolated measures but form a whole system of measures that outline the political and legal system not only towards foreigners and refugees, but also the desired attitude of society towards these groups. In addition to the narrowly defined exceptions, the bill foresees practically no exceptional threat of punishing anyone who assists a stranger in the illegal transition, stay or transit through the Republic of Croatia. Not only that, but the bill provides for punishment for trying to help, and for many other repercussions of financial nature for individual natural or legal persons, and for persecuting foreigners. The law is also contrary to Directive 2002/90 which provides for punishment only in order to quotes against illegal immigration, illegal employment, trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation of children closed up quotes. It is also contrary to Council Framework Decision 2002/966, which states that criminalisation must be without prejudice to the protection of refugees and asylum seekers in accordance with international law. Last year and before, we witnessed the proactive assistance of not only individuals but also our countries in crossing, staying and transiting foreigners, as well as other Member States and recently the Vatican. Today, the Republic requires institutions and society to make a complete turn of attitudes that not only is immoral but is also against the law. I therefore believe that it is necessary to qualify for aid in a way that aid for humanitarian reasons is not punishable. Under aid for humanitarian reasons, aid that does not result in any material and financial benefit for the aider is guided by a moral and humanitarian principle in situations that are necessary for the protection of life or the integrity of a person who illegally crosses the border or illegally resides in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We have made such a suggestion in the amendments that have come to your benches. I hope that the parliamentary majority will accept these amendments and that this foreign law of ours will not be sufficient for us to criminalise solidarity and criminalise the assistance that people give to those in need. Let us remember what it was like in the 1990s, and let us not make a mistake for these people who helped those who escaped the war of monsters to be punished for helping these people in need. But this law also has that main objective, which is the implementation of three very important directives in the field of the labour market, and that is the main reason for the amendment of this law, because this criminalisation of solidarity can be said that it is somehow put inside with the goal of not talking too much about it. Each of these three directives that are now being implemented also has a certain impact on the market for the work of the recipient country. The three Directives mentioned above aim not only to ensure a uniform approach by all EU Member States to regulate immigration policy and its impact on labour market policy, to enable EU Member States to introduce certain restrictions when transposing the provisions of the directive to national legislation to protect their labour market and to ensure priority in the employment of their own citizens and citizens of other EU Member States, and to protect workers by preventing the abuses that they may experience in the migration of labour force, and to harm workers and labour markets of the recipient country. We are the country from which it is moving and HDZ has obviously broken the record of 82 thousand evicted from Croatia in one year which we as a country need to imagine not only for people to go outside but we have to protect our labour market. I note that Austria's interior minister announced that Austria will go the way to go for employment by hiring Austrian citizens first, only then citizens of other countries, which destroys the elements of the EU itself and the free flow of people and capital. It is clear that we should not go that way, but through this law we could provide certain measures that would allow our labour market to be protected from the employment of people from EU countries. First of all, the Government of the Provisions of the Directive has explicitly transposed the law and this way of regulation in no way affects the reduction of normative arrangements or the relief of employers' behaviour, and is complicated by regulation in fact affecting the regulatory disorder, which, of course, facilitates abuse of those who will work in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I'll give you an example. The reference of workers to work abroad within the framework of the provision of services, instead of being laid down by one law of that substance, will be laid down in several regulations, in the Labour Act, in the Law on Foreigners, the Law on the Implementation of EU Regulations, the Law on Labour Inspection and the Specific Regulation, which will regulate the specific criteria for the general assessment of the elements of the posting of workers and of the business creation of employers, and a special regulation governing the procedure for the submission of mandatory content and form of a reference declaration. I would like to hear from the government's representatives in the final statement that they think that foreign service providers can manage in such a forest of regulations and how do they think that way to facilitate business in Croatia? The harmonisation with the Directive on the implementation of the Directive on posted workers should be used to regulate this matter by a single regulation in order to facilitate the application and monitoring of the movement of posted workers. Another message that can be read from the final bill is that the government's policy against Croatian labour markets and unemployed workers is not positive. With this bill, the Government sends a clear message to Croatian citizens, that it absolutely does not care in any way to provide unemployed workers in Croatia with a job, but it is obviously the government's intention to fully open the Croatian labour market and liberalise it further in a way that facilitates the employment of third-country nationals in seasonal affairs. The government is fully opening the labour market in Croatia with this proposal, opening it without any restrictions to third-country nationals. This in itself would not be a big problem if our practice and experience so far would not confirm that this will employ low-skilled work from our neighbouring countries, which will put additional pressure on the labour price in Croatia, and will negatively affect the reduction of the standards achieved. Instead of providing jobs to our workers, this government opens that possibility to seasonal workers from third countries. I would like to hear from the government's representatives who are justifying such behaviour towards domestic labour and unemployed persons because we still have a large number of unemployed citizens. It concerns the fact that all those mechanisms in the directive that leave Member States to protect their labour market did not take advantage of Croatia. And again, this proposal opens up a full labour market for third-country nationals. I will also support this claim with examples. The number of seasonal workers from third countries is merely suggested that the government can as expected not to establish quotas for their employment in practice. No limit shall be placed on the employment of seasonal workers and third countries in such a way as to enable such employment only if it is not possible to find a suitable worker among the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. The activities considered seasonal are not identified but leave the full possibility of employment open. Conditions under which authorisation for the employment of seasonal workers may be refused against employers who do not comply with regulations and employment on black are flexiblely arranged to send a message that Croatia does not care to prevent such harmful activities of employers. Although I note that the EU has repeatedly stressed the need to curb illegal work in the Republic of Croatia. This government policy and the ruling coalition actually tolerates such a phenomenon, and yet with its solutions it encourages the damage of workers in the Republic of Croatia. Such a government policy against Croatian labour markets is particularly harmful in the context of the high number of unemployed, disgraceful attitudes towards unemployed workers, which once again confirms that the government's policy is to build the competitiveness of the domestic market on low-paid labour, which fully confirms the government's neoliberal concept without any social sensitivity. I'd like to hear from the government and the ruling coalition if such a policy against a domestic worker shows the patriotism they are ruling in a coalition full of mouths. Is the Government planning labour import policy to increase foreign employment quotas that we have had the opportunity to see by the government's decision to increase the quota and, moreover, by fully liberalising third-country employment, the state has to prevent the outflow of our workers abroad. What do we want to criminalise solidarity for? We showed a high degree of humanity in the refugee crisis and now they'd arrest citizens who gave refugees a glass of water. This is a quick law, and I am not surprised at the Ministry of the Interior because it is logical that they do not have persons who could implement the work directives but I am surprised that the Ministry of Labour and the pension system did not participate in the drafting of this law. Because if that were so sure, I'm sure a bill like this wouldn't come before us or am I wrong? And to end, what concerns is the fact that this policy not only creates new jobs, but the existing ones also want to fill the low-skilled foreign labour force from third countries and this will affect the reduction of working conditions in Croatia. Personally, in such a policy where foreigners are put in front of our citizens and even in relation to such a desirable job, I see no patriotism but the distinct benefit of the ruling majority. The SDP has submitted certain amendments accordingly and will support this law if these amendments are adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26215	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Željko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26216	My dear colleague, I mean, I don't know what I'm hearing here, but I'm freaking out. I think I'm the law, it's a totally displaced topic. We're discussing something here, it could have fallen from Mars, and I wonder this, we hear phrases of human rights, work, job openings, and I wonder how it is possible that 27 years after the Homeland War we still don't have a single list of Croatian voters outside the country? How is it possible if an Irishman can have double citizenship and British citizenship that it doesn't have every Croat outside the country and we're talking about a demographic, demographic monster? Here comes 16 billion kunas from the outside, which is about 4% of GDP, which is revised. And these people not only haven't solved these fundamental human rights as a letter vote held by third-world countries, they haven't solved, for example. also private property, what is confiscated and you know the European Court of Human Rights to which you are calling has made a decision to return confiscated property etc. It's all made so these people don't come back and this is just a mere story here and a debate that you're spilling here. And I wonder when we'll wake up? We're going to lose this next generation because they've completely removed themselves from this kind of policy. And I'm asking you, because that rhetorical question, because that sabotage is intentional? You have now beaten them, those who return, for the budget of pensioners who are expected to return double taxation which is a clear profit for the Croatian budget. At the same time, people who have committed aggression on this country return, thousands receive tens of thousands of rights, etc. So, people live in other people's apartments and real owners who live outside haven't solved their grandfather's. Now these are the key issues and all these capitals about the rule of law, etc. They're just floscules because we're now being led to the brink of economic downfall on demographic collapse and whose merit is that if not your party and yours?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26217	I thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Glasnović. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26218	If it hadn't been for this last one, you would have realized that your exposure was in the form of an exposure with the aim of making it easier for Croats outside of Croatia to access our labour market in some way, but obviously you can't escape that the SDP is to blame for everything that's happened in the world probably because your SDP is guilty and it's raining or what's blowing your storm or what's snowing. But the Foreigning Law is a law that fundamentally regulates the stay, work and entry of foreigners into the Republic of Croatia. What you're talking about is the very theme of other laws and it's not the Foreign Law. The law on foreigners here is very clear that in the Croatian labour market it enables people from third countries to come to work in Croatia but again I regret that the Government does not blame the Ministry of the Interior but the Ministry of Labour and the pension system did not take advantage of everything the directive legally provides that our labour market does not fully open up for the entry of third-country workers. But since here we have seen today in an action plan that goes hand in hand to employers, and this goes hand in hand to the employers because it allows them to get cheap labour from countries outside the EU all in order to knock down the labour price and to have low-paid jobs in Croatia that are not suitable for the work of the wounded. I'm sorry it's so in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26219	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26220	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, in his presentation on the Foreign Law, you stated that the legislator did not take advantage of the opportunities provided by the EU directives to protect the domestic labour market, on the other hand, you set an example of Austria and the minister who declares that the Austrian citizens have an advantage in employment and only then from other countries and you say that you are against this model. So I ask you what is the model in Croatia then what would you suggest if it is, and should be our national interest based on the Constitution that everyone has the right to work first for Croatian citizens, and we have a high unemployment rate especially in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem to get the right to work. We know that most Slavs are currently working seasonally on the Adriatic. We know that the great pressure of employers in the order of hospitality and hotels is to give greater quotas for the import of labour. We also know that no minimum wage law has been passed in that amount that would be appropriate for the work done there. And we know that workers are also employed through this action plan in a certain way. Well, it's a good thing you're proposing how this area could be regulated to take advantage of European directives and to pass national legislation so that everyone has the right to work and that they can live on their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26221	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26222	Thank you very much. In my presentation, I was just about to make two points. It is one that is linked to the directive itself where you can legally restrict employment in your labour market and one extreme which Austria is now trying to implement where it is, therefore, a protectionist measure that is unlikely to pass in the European Parliament and in the European Union. But what we could do in the law itself is to make it very clear that a foreign employment quota is being brought. When we tell foreign workers we are talking about third-country workers, we are not talking about EU workers. That seasonal workers from third countries can only be employed if you cannot find a suitable worker in Croatia, to strictly establish activities that are seasonal. Here, in the bill of law, this is a broadly proposed interpretation which, knowing us, I think is not exactly settled in the law because the directive leaves the possibility for Member States to establish seasonal activities in cooperation with their social partners and what I am saying again, that here is the State Secretary in the preamble of the directive itself, which suggests this directive. We didn't do it. On the other hand, we must clearly state the conditions under which authorisation for the employment of seasonal workers can be refused in order to prevent black work. A lot of Slavs work in Dalmatia. But if you offer him 5,000 kuna in Dubrovnik, he will pay him 5,000 kuna when he pays for his accommodations and he has no food left. But apparently there are workers from third countries who would work for such a low living, a wage, and that's what this directive needs to be prevented, what needs to be prevented from this law that failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26223	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow MP, in the human aspect, you said that the law should not be rigorous, cruel to those who help refugees. Of course, we were always human in the most difficult times towards refugees from BiH, and that is a fact and applying it to a Croatian man is not good, the Croatian state. However, how to distinguish the example of this deserted van, a coolant that haunts people where they are found on the road and how to distinguish those who help and those who use monetary and unfortunate ones and their situation. So that's one very difficult question to find legislatively. We need to know that in this situation, people earn money in another person's accident, which is sad, and from that aspect should be seen in this humane way, but legally it needs to be clear and difficult to tell. I don't think so. You mention a liberal market. I am personally against it, and I will vote for your amendment, for liberalisation, for the foreigners you said that foreign labour. Because the fact that during the time you placed the boot in the hands of the DIV is that more people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, not natural Croats as citizens, i.e. citizens who have dual citizenship than other peoples from other parts of the country work for much less money, and our people who are much more skilled and competent go to Korea and in other ways. So, the fact is that we have empty areas in Slavonia, so you know that we have 50,000, that people have gone because of what during Minister Jacobine's time did not go to the O.P.G.s that they were trying to leave, but to the tycoons. And of course now in these areas we have to have, somehow, to bring back our people, that's where I agree with you. The ones who left Slavonia, but we can't do that if we buy cattle. Who's going to guard it means to maintain it as a farmer first. We need to correct the mistakes made by you previous governments and hope that you will give personal support, and for what is good, I will certainly vote for your amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26225	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26226	Thank you very much. I think it's about our dealings with refugees all over the world that gave us credit for how we acted. I think we did very well for those people who went looking for a better life and for our citizens. Because de facto most of our citizens have neither seen nor felt this great horde of people, the people who are moving. So it can be said that we attended a great village, a village of the people. It is very clear in the law that those who, for money and for everything, benefit from emigration, from those who give someone a glass of water, give a sandwich, give them something to wear. So the law treats both of them and those who drive in the van, who make money on refugees who are criminals and those who want to help and give someone a glass of water or a sandwich. And that's not good, you have to. We've given the amendment to resolve it. As far as the bootleggers are concerned, you missed the subject a little bit, because exactly the DIV has taken over the shipyard. We had to privatise shipyards because of the EU. But I note that at the time of the SDP's mandate, there were more requirements than the smuggling and others to approve a large quota of workers from third countries for shipbuilding work was not approved. In one year there were, therefore, over 2,000 requests for 2,000 work permits for the shipbuilding industry. We made it very clear, while we have so many unemployed, while we have 15,000 unemployed workers with interests in the shipbuilding industry have no quota approval. And the SDP government did not approve imports of labour unlike the HDZ government, which, according to the last one, approved a large number of labour permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26227	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26228	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Here is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law and an extremely important, complex and extensive law and business view, given the number of provisions that are amended by this law, he would deserve us to go with a new law, not through the Law Amendment Institute. However, we are where we are. The law is very important because it regulates these life issues, which is the entry of foreigners into the Republic of Croatia, their working status, their labour rights, their education, all other rights that are related to both health insurance and science and schooling, for theirs to say and stay and permanent stay and stay of their families and the conditions for leaving the Republic of Croatia, and this is indeed one law that has already been said here in accordance with 22 EU directives. The need now has proved to be in line with three other directives that are extremely important to regulate the issue of seasonal workers, their entry, their employment, their residence permit, their families. It is also an extremely important issue and a question of moving within companies. What we need to take care of, we are an EU member and as a member of the EU, we must have a compatible system with other EU members. So within that, in the Republic of Croatia, not only will there be companies and there are companies that are established by our citizens, by our legal entities, but the companies that are established in other EU Member States will also act on them, either in the form that they are established here, whether they have the right to have some business creation here or to work on their representations and therefore through that directive we must resolve and accept that part of the legislation that regulates the right to move people who are employed in such companies. This applies to managers, it refers to trainees within companies, it refers to people who have come to improve professionally. And looking at these positions, the law really offers solutions and the law implements these directives to which we are called and called. But what is extremely important to say, it would be good and this will be suggested by the HDZ Club, that the law still goes into regular procedure because there have been quite a few proposals, opinions delivered in the public debate, and it would be good to think about all this one more time and draw the line once again that the law is as high as possible and that the law meets all the standards that are needed here. The law provides for a lot of administrative procedures, which are dozens and dozens of administrative decisions and solutions that must be made on a variety of issues. Let me just count one small part, he says, we have a solution to ban, to return, to abolish the ban on entry and stay, to extend the time limit for voluntary departure, to force distance, to force distance from Article 124, solutions to apply milder measures, solutions to accommodation in the Acceptable Centre for Foreigners. So the whole, whole series of solutions that need to be made here in these new procedures, and that is why it is not just enough to pass the law, but to create infrastructure for the law to be enforceable. This means we have to have educated personnel, we have to have people who can make such decisions quickly, quality, and there is certainly one more significant and greater preparation for the implementation of this law. And we believe, therefore, that the ministry will, of course, provide with other bodies of our administration such conditions as to make these procedures go faster and to meet the conditions. Because let's see, we have to bring those first-degree solutions, so we have the right to appeal to the commission, so we don't have the right to have another administrative dispute at the Administrative Court, the High Administrative Court, and on that side there's really a whole series of procedures that the Republic of Croatia will lead here to comply with all these provisions. It is definitely necessary for the law to answer those questions primarily on seasonal workers' issues, on the issue of intra-trafficking and also on administrative co-operation through the EU's internal market information system. It's a very complex and complicated system and it requires one and a significant, more precise law, so to speak. The whole series is here and there are different definitions that should certainly be clarified and specified that they are also enforceable, that they leave no doubt when our professional people implement that law. Well, for example, there really is a whole series of definitions that need to be harmonised so that they are understandable. I don't know, Article 18 defines family members in terms of the law, so what is already a classic marriage mate, people who are in an extramarital community, a life partner, an informal life partner, is what we actually see in other laws. So that's where we have to be uniform. And then there's here, let's say, here he says in the case of a polygamous marriage, family integration in the Republic of Croatia will only be approved by one spouse. Well, then, we have a family reunion that won't be approved if a married or out-of-marriage friend is married or in a long-term relationship with another person or if he is a life partner or an informal life partner, but in a life partnership or in a long-term relationship with another person. This will all be very difficult on the ground and apply, so it is required in the law as accurately as possible to define all these things in order not to encounter any ambiguity in its application. What has been said here is that I don't think any foreign people should be afraid of coming here because in any case Croatia is part of the EU and in this one general exchange of ideas and experiences and work in this exchange Croatia must respect the basic postulates of the EU, which is openness. Our quality of life with us, our GDP growth will raise employment, prevent the need for our young people not to go outside. But at this point when we see how many people have moved out of the Republic of Croatia I don't want to blame any government, I don't want to address anyone's criticism, but the fact is that a lot of people have gone outside, that here in the Republic of Croatia have not found employment, they haven't found a way to ensure their existence and their loved ones. Slowly on our market, we also lack certain personnel, certain professional staff, and it is certain that in this one general exchange we must find a measure so that other people are coming to work with us. What we were talking about was that we need to set quotas and that it should be specified from which countries, especially from these non-EU countries, I think that in law it is well regulated, the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines the quota by taking care of the needs of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. I have to say in one government where I was a member of what came as a proposal from the competent institutions we did not accept because then I did not know what number of shepherds that means coming from outside people to be shepherds to us which I really think in the Republic of Croatia, with all respect to all these people who have a need for work, it is necessary to make sure that our people are actually employed and that our people are ensuring their existence in the Republic of Croatia. But I think the problem, on the other hand, is that people go outside because they have bigger salaries, they have better options out there, and that's what's really a big requirement for the Republic of Croatia to provide conditions for better wages, to ensure conditions for these young people not to leave the Republic of Croatia but to find a reason here and find conditions for good existence, for professional advancement, for perfecting. And I think that when we look at the results that have been achieved over the past year, which is that GDP has been increased, public debt has been reduced, and unemployment in the Republic of Croatia has been reduced. I think it gives us a great deal of restraint that the Republic of Croatia is going in the right direction. And finally, I would like to say once again that given the large number of proposals that have been addressed to the amendments to this law, as a HDZ club, we are going to propose that the law go into regular procedure that once again a number of proposals actually try to be evaluated and see what could enter this law in order to make it as high as possible. And also to make the law in its definitions as precise as possible that it does not leave too much space for discretionary assessments in its application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26229	I thank my esteemed colleague Drazen Bošnjakovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26230	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Bošnjakovic, you have also mentioned administrative procedures that are very difficult to obtain from anything and especially from foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. It's clear to me, and it certainly takes strangers to have one big check to get our papers and stay with us. However, he would ask another question about how Croats from the surrounding countries have the right to come to Croatia, to work and even to live also come to major obstacles and major problems when it comes to their documents and not to talk about non-Croatian Croats, who are even in America, Bolivia, Austria and around six months apart, can't get that. There is one example that a man from Bolivia is a Croat poor woman who was supposed to get a house in Croatia and was granted no papers and went back to Bolivia. So this is exactly what we suggest that these laws on Croats outside who would like to live or return to Croatia state are simplified, allow as much right as any of us Croats living in Croatia because all neighbouring countries in Slovenia, Italy, Austria, Germany allow their people, with little proof of their origin, to allow them to obtain documents and work in that country. I believe that we Croats from all over the world should be allowed to receive documents very slowly and in a very short time and have the right to work as well as all the other Croats. They left this country, not by their own free will, but by their banishment, persecution, and now they're persecuted because they can't get their papers after six months. So I ask you as a lawyer how do you consider that part and can our Croats get that much easier and that... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26231	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. I would ask you nicely to look at the time exactly so you wouldn't have to interrupt. Replica reply, distinguished colleague Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26232	My colleague Misic, I completely agree with you and I have no other answer than to advocate as simple a procedure as possible. In order for the procedure to be simpler, the law must be precise, it must be clear and not leave any large, wide space for discretionary assessment than if it means a clear and precise definition then and it goes. And among other things, why we're going to ask that the law goes into regular procedure, and not like this, there's an excellent amendment to our parliamentary committee, means that Croats who are outside the country don't have foreign status in these things and in the kind of procedures you've been talking about. And it's actually that the government thinks about that amendment and then here's another shorter time of analysis to really pass a law that's going to be real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26233	I thank my esteemed colleague Bošnjakovic for his reply. The following came to the line from distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26234	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, what you have discussed is a matter of openness, but the issue of openness is not only a matter of protecting our labour market, but it should be the intensity of this law to ensure, within the directive, that our workers in Croatia get a job and that there is no competition for someone who comes outside, who will also work for some lower wages. On the other hand, I'm glad that here you have admitted that the law is sloppy, because there was obviously no cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour and the pension system because it would probably look different. I hope that the SDP proposals, the amendments we have proposed, will enter into consideration in the second reading, and we from the SDP will also support that the law goes into just another reading. When we talk about Croats outside the country, I note that all those who have Croatian citizenship can access the Croatian labour market as well as our citizens in the Republic of Croatia and there are no restrictions. But again, I note the openness of that, but with the protection of our labour market in accordance with the directive because this directive provides us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26235	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his replica. Answer, distinguished colleague Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26236	Dear fellow Mrsic, the question of the wages you were talking about is not really a question of the law that is a question of the market itself that will actually balance the amount of wages and actually cannot be affected by the law. The subject of this law is the implementation of the directives we have talked about here, and the implementation of the directive means that there must be approximately similar or equal conditions in the EU area, and regarding these issues in which this law speaks seasonally, means workers. The transfer of workers within companies is then related to the information system. So on that side, I don't think there's any doubt. As far as I'm concerned, I can't say it's sloppy. The law is in its great majority a good law. However, he deserves yet another debate because there was also a great public interest, there were numerous remarks, numerous amendments, and finally we see here in our Croatian Parliament that the committees also propose a whole series of amendments. And so I think it would be useful, and here we at the HDZ Club suggest that this still goes into a regular procedure in which all of this will actually be analysed once again and after that we will pass one really good law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26237	I thank my colleague Bošnjakovic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26238	Thank you very much. As an experienced lawyer and former minister, a longtime official, you said we should not be afraid of foreigners. We shouldn't be afraid of strangers, but we shouldn't be afraid of the worst. We should be afraid of what is worst happening to us, 2/3 of Croatia is literally empty from Dalmatia Zagorje, Ravni kotar, Like, Gorski Kotar, Slavonia and Zagorje. Speaking of the law, I would agree with you that you should make a full change. However, we always speak the European directive. What does the word directive mean? That someone ordered us to do it? I don't think that's true? That's more guidance, a European guideline, and that's another thing that we have a mental set... The European Union, when we enter the European Union, all these directives are phenomenal, excellent,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But today, as far as our space is concerned, about what's happening in the world where we have the meaning of the epic proportions of the people's migration because of the war and the threat in North Africa where the states are gone, we don't exist and we have empty spaces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a possibility that in these empty spaces, because a billion people after research, a billion people want to come to the EU. Where's he gonna come from? Can you explain where the empty spaces are? We have a problem, but what young people are running away, what have been robbed and devastated by a number of economic operators and issued national interests. It's a key problem, which is why young people leave. So I'd like to ask you how you're looking at this emptying of those spaces in today's situation when we have epic proportions, so it means you're moving people out of those places that aren't guilty, because that's obviously staged. But where's he gonna come from? Will it come to empty spaces or full spaces? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26239	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26240	Comrade Bulj, you talk very often about empty spaces and this is really a great topic and you talk about your neighborhood from which you come where you actually witness and see it. When I was in the election campaign, my son was designing this campaign, and I was campaigning in a way that I was riding on a bicycle, and I crossed over almost the entire election unit by bicycle, that's this 6th election unit, where I met with what you're talking about. With Posavina, that move from Sisak goes further towards Novska literally half-breeding villages. Beautiful villages, beautiful nature, beautiful fertile land, but there are no people. That's not what I'd say if we were to address this government or that government, but just for years those villages were emptying out, people were getting jobs elsewhere. And if you ask me where I see a solution, I see a solution to stimulate these people to settle those areas, to deal with economic activity. And this very openness and EU membership I think it can help us because various funds exist, various sources of resources exist where many of these people who would like to start some kind of activity and settle that space could find. So, in addition to adding measures to our government that will certainly come out, I think that's a good way to go. But what is certain is not a process that will happen overnight. We in principle require and we need to make a strong strategy because almost every single one of you is talking about these empty spaces, and I think everyone in your neighborhood can recognize exactly what you're talking about. Because the biggest enemy of Croatia is or in fact the biggest problem is a bad demographic image and these empty spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26241	I thank my esteemed colleague Bošnjakovic for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26242	Thank you, Chairman. The subject is the Foreign Law, and in my opinion there are more disputed provisions, and the most disturbing case is a de facto banishment from our country of Vita Jedlicka. Vit Jedlicka built a state called Liberland on the right bank of the Danube and it would not be a problem if Croatia did not work against itself. And what's this about? Our state border is such that they belong to us from the left bank of the Danube place called Karapanja, Kenjia, Blaževica, Kolonjoš, Dragonjevac, Dragon 2, Peninsula, Zvernjak and Srebrenica, so these are the places that are on the Serbian side of the Danube, and because of the change, we are de facto not in control of them but the neighbouring state. On the other hand, on our side of the Danube, there is a place called Siga, which is one area that is disproportionately less than the area of our area located on the Serbian side of the Danube. Why am I talking about this problem? Because this area of Siga Croatia does not claim that it is part of Croatia, Serbia does not consider it, but what did Croatia do? Croatia has arrested Vita Jedlicko in the area, which de facto admitted it or showed that it has authority over the area and that it is considered part of Croatia. It thus went to Serbia and in fact legalised the status of these numerous areas that I mentioned from the left bank of the Danube and did us harm. Vit Jedlika is an unusual immigrant, he did not come because I don't know any ground-floor reasons in that area of Liberland, or as it is already called Sige, but came there for a reason to make a country that would be third in the world of size right behind Monaco and the Vatican, and the goal was to develop tourism, to bring people there because there are currently no people there, etc. However, because of the transition, and beware of what this paradox is, you will now laugh, Croatia considers that area, apparently there is police there ours, as part of Croatia or its jurisdiction, while the one who has moved from Croatia to that area arrests him for, beware of what, watch out for which paradox, due to the illegal crossing of the border. At the same time, the territory of Croatia considers it its own, the man has moved from Croatia to that area. So a total one paradox, a total one absurd, and unlike thousands of foreigners who are not from the EU, such as Vit Jedlička from the Czech Republic, unlike thousands of foreigners who have neither valid travel documents nor adequate visas, they are allowed to go through Croatia, enter Croatia, some of them remain here, and the Czech Vit Jedlička, who was no threat to anyone, who has only put Croatia in a positive context on the world news that so I say made a media attraction, has been processed, he has been thrown out. Keeping an eye on what the Foreigning Law says, it says, within the meaning of the article, a solution to the exorcision of Article 105. "The solution can be made if the stranger is illegally staying", a man was in the area of the Siga which Croatia never claimed to be hers. So he didn't break point one. Number two. "if he crosses and tries illegally to cross the state border," he did not do it either. And by any chance, he did, by any chance, that Vid Jedlica illegally crossed the border which might actually be considered controversial because Croatia does not claim that this is our area. He's right on the side of the Danube, so on the international waterway, he simply gets off in the area of the Siga and there being, but the Croatian state arrests him, banishes from territory that is not part of our country. And I repeat acknowledging Serbia right over those areas on the left bank of the Danube. Watch out for third, it helps in illegal entry, transit or stay. I don't think Whit Jedi did any of those things. I think, and the fourth says make marriage useful. Now watch this thought, what does it mean to make a marriage useful? There are many people in our country who have made a marriage of benefit. There are people who marry for love, both men and women, but there are men and women who, from various other motives, opt most frequently for marriage to someone. depending on the salary of that person, its social status, etc. etc. And now what's going on? In my view, Article 4 should read as follows: who makes a fictitious marriage with the aim of gaining citizenship or the right to stay and not who makes a marriage useful. Because it's to make a marriage, because watch this, let's say I'm an example. The woman from Kenya and that my colleague Bunjac from the Living Wall is a man from Croatia now I'm using some let's say marry him and we live together, we live together. Did I make a marriage out of use? I am, but there's nothing the state can say about that key now, and now we're going to deport you because you're out of kindness, I don't know, and not out of love, I married you. So I feel that this term to make a marriage out of use is wrong because marriage is valid even if it is of benefit. Here's if you can, you can make a marriage for various reasons, ladies and gentlemen. He says he violates the law on the employment and work of foreigners, commits a criminal act, has been legally convicted abroad for difficult things and I don't know if he's committing a crime again. I believe that Vit Jedi is a person who needs to be abolished from Croatia, I believe that he should be allowed on the side of the Danube, on the side of the Danube to come to the area and Sige and in case his crossing to the territory of Siga on the part of Croatia is disputed, so let the state of Croatia make a border crossing, make a border crossing, and then man will cross the border crossing. But the problem is there's no border crossing. And if he wants to land on land, a man enters his country of Liberland, unfortunately he can't do it. I would therefore, in the end, read his letter to the Croatian Parliament. It reads like this from Vita Jedlicka "Dear members of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen first let me congratulate you on the 25th anniversary of the international recognition of Croatia that you celebrated on January 15th. It is an important event in the history of the Croatian state. It took a lot of effort to establish and build your country, the country I respect and admire. I represent a peaceful and free nation of people who are ready to co-operate with the Republic of Croatia composed of 400 thousand people who have applied for citizenship and many of them are world-famous architects, artists, investors, entrepreneurs or diplomats. We believe that human freedom, limited power and free market are the best elements to achieve the boom of society. We are working on applying best practice management from the past with decentralised management technologies of the future. We are inspired by successful countries such as Hong Kong and Monaco that are constantly allowing significant profits to neighboring countries. More than 40,000 entrepreneurs have expressed a clear interest in investing in our country. Our economists predict that the full development of Liberland can help boost economic growth in Croatia by 1% annually and drastically reduce unemployment throughout the region. Our nation was founded on 13 April 2015 on the day of Thomas Jefferson's birth but the sources of our ideas can be seen in numerous historical events starting with the exodus of ancient times. The event of this idea was also seen in the American Revolution but recently through the founding of Liberland. We have chosen a free portion of the territory previously known as the Upper Siga to avoid any territorial disputes with other countries. We have set our borders outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as outside the Schengen area. We highly appreciate the efforts of the Croatian police to protect the borders and are willing to help them work with them. We are also ready to be a reliable partner in Croatian foreign policy. Liberland has established its representations in more than 80 countries aimed at working in agreement with Croatian diplomatic missions. Liberland is only 7 square kilometers in size, making it the third smallest country in the world after the Vatican and Monaco. We kindly ask you to pay attention to this kindly we ask that you respect our right to peacefully establish that part of the territory. We are ready to open talks between the Croatian government and the Government of Liberland to define our regular border crossing in accordance with international law." That is what I say is controversial. That he was arrested for the illegal crossing of the border and there is no legal border crossing between Siga Gornja and the Republic of Croatia. "We are ready to co-operate in the area of drug trafficking, extradition of criminals, combating terrorism, tax avoidance and other areas of your interest. We thank you for your patience while we work hard to fully establish our institutions but also our legal and financial system. Croatians have important historical experience with small shelters oriented towards freedom. We would like to remind you of just one example of the Dubrovnik Republic that has brought great benefit to the entire region but also to the world. We would like to build on this historic experience to become a bright example for the rest of the world in collaboration with Croatia. One of the key aspects of ensuring the existence of the Dubrovnik Republic was the strong respect for freedom, which is in the slogan “Freedom is not sold for all gold in the world, and our motto is living and letting live! ” If you share faith in freedom with us, I invite you to celebrate with us in the celebration of 2 years since the establishment of the State of Liberland on 13 April 2017 in Liberland. Our main intention is to work closely with regional and central Croatian authorities in the economic growth of the region to ensure that Croatia works in harmony as a partner in its immediate neighbourhood."Here are dear friends and colleagues, I read you the letter Vita Jedlička and I appeal once again, that this decision on exile does not apply to Mr Vita Jedlička, because it is not a person who harms Croatia in economic terms or any other sense, it does not endanger our territorial sovereignty because it does not claim a part of the territory that Croatia considers its own. And to establish control over the state border as far as illegal immigrants are concerned, which means, as we've had for a few years since this refugee crisis has gone uninterrupted across our country. Once again, I want to say that freedom is the right thing to say, self-determination, etc. the highest values there is. And I believe that Croatia's decision to force power over the upper sig and argues that it is part of Croatia and banishes people from there, legalises the status of areas on the left hand side of the Danube that belong to Croatia, which Serbia has actually occupied and is keeping under its control. And rather than banishing people who are illegally staying there by the Croatian state over these areas, instead of establishing control over their own territory that is not ours, which we do not consider in international law, we banish people like Vita Jedlicka who are one example in this whole migration story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26243	I thank my dear colleague, Mr. Ivan Pernar or Mrs. Pernar Bunjac, as you have already stated in the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26244	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. I certainly have to turn that story around somehow, because this story seemed to me like it was a fairy tale, but it's not at all. It's not exactly fairytale to me, especially since I was in '91. When I was expelled from the house I lived in, we had one such authority that she said you no longer owned. But they didn't define who owns that property I own, but they stayed out there. However, I never gave it up. So when a so-called politician comes along who claims to be his and declares himself, just declares it or whatever we call it to a Prime Minister and still communicates it, then first I think I need to go back to some past and figure out who it really belongs to, that then he can single-mindedly adopt something to himself because in this way I'd like to see just how it would be if he showed up there in '91. late or '92. Well, then maybe it's the representatives of the so-called. Republika Srpska said no, it's my country. We can only get one of us to say that kind of kick in the ass, so I think what the police did was very smooth and in a nice waycommunicated. And at that time, I'm sure he'd get shot in the head, so that would be one message, which means freedom. Therefore, consider that taking something and just declaring it is not a certain act that appears to be some pompous politician who is from a tenth country and says I will have my right to do so. I'd like to see why that right didn't come out in the Czech Republic on some border, there's a Danube there too. He probably used to mechandrate there, so he changed streams, changed some lives, but certainly no one ever let anyone show up on the side and picks up and says here today it's mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26245	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. Replica reply, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26246	Mr Panenić, thank you for your presentation, and what I think we should say in some way is that you are mixing such a word with pears and apples is that Vit Jedlička did not declare the state of Liberland in the area that Croatia considers its own. So he declared it in an area that I don't know at the border from '47. belongs to Serbia, over which Croatia is not entitled. If Mr. Vit Jedlika had come within the borders of our country, if he had come within an area that has been internationally recognised as the Republic of Croatia at that avionic border, the border that we consider our own and if he had declared some of his republics I would have said Mr. Jedlika you are wrong, you can't and I would have deported him first too. However, he did not say he came to the territory of the Croatian state border but came to a country where neither Croatia claims to be hers, and Serbia has denied it. So he didn't bother anyone. He is actually politically persecuted and Croatia has actually violated international law in dealing with him because it had no right over a country that did not exercise its jurisdiction. And by doing so, which has established jurisdiction over something that is not part of Croatia's country has actually legalized what Serbia is doing, which is usurping Croatia's country full of bigger than Vit Jedlička took from the left bank of the Danube. And in fact, the decision of the Croatian authorities goes hand in hand to the Serbian authorities who, to this day, these Croatian pockets, let's call them that, from the left bank of the Danube, usurp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26247	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague named Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26248	Comrade Pernar, I am in a dilemma whether I should go into debate with you in a way that the parliamentary representative actually takes up one position as a traitor in the sense that Croatian territory is denied. You claim it's not Croatian territory. I didn't see it anywhere, or to take your debate in that style of yours as one performance in terms of, you gave one statement on one portal, I saw it yesterday in a study, I don't know Sarajevo anywhere, how often in your discussions in the head of parliamentary representatives or Parliament you're conducting a circus. I didn't realize your argument was serious, I didn't realize you were giving up Croatian territory and I didn't realize you meant what you were saying. As for the marriage that you mentioned for good, you know the marriage of use can be made, but it is not consummated. Even in the Holy Mother Church in the canons of the Holy Mother Church, you know there can be an annulment of a marriage that is not consummated. And it is very easy to establish a marriage for good. So I think you're wrong too. But you will probably confirm to me in response to the replica that you didn't mean it and that this is another one in a series of your performances related to Croatia's territory across the left bank of the Danube. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26249	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Varda for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26250	Mr. Varda, okay. if you claim that this area is part of Croatia although it has never been covered within the Croatian state borders, you are at the same time giving up the rights of Croatian areas within those borders that were defined'47, which are still in force today because no other agreement has been reached and you are actually agreeing to high treason to a much greater extent. And why is that? Because on the right hand side of the Danube is only this unfortunate upper Siga, and on the left hand side of the Danube there are many more of these areas. I will once again name them Karapanja, Kenji, these are huge areas in northern Baranja, Blaževica, Kolonjoš, much larger areas than Siga, Dragonjac, is also much larger than Siga, etc., etc., etc. What am I trying to tell you? Yes Croatia by doing so, i.e. that by claiming that it is the Danube that represents the borderline, and not the limits that were last agreed, it represents the real line of demarcation. You're giving up on that, Mr. Varda? You give up all Croatian areas on the left side of the Danube. And this mathematics where we get a small Sigu, and we give the Serbs six other trans-Duntian large areas, plots, this mathematics is high treason to me, not my Mr. Varda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26251	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. The following came to light for the debate on behalf of HNS-HSU Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26252	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. This is an extremely important law that we are discussing today, and in some ways I protest that trivial topics are trying to pollute and cloud this topic. In this way, as we listen to extremely important topics, if you want from demographics in Croatia, national sovereignty, if you want human rights, if you want our obligations within the EU, if you want ways to combat a possible new refugee crisis, all this actually falls into another plan because of trivial and banal stories that have nothing to do with this law. And as important as the law testifies to the fact that in the midst of this debate of the HDZ club, I hope that Madam Secretary of State knows that, announces that the vote will require the law to return to the first reading process. So the ruling party club is aware that the law as proposed is not right and should be completed. Already, the fact that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law contains 123 articles bear witness to a practice which has not been welcome in this House for years, which is that when such extensive amendments and additions are done, I remind myself of this kind of material, that it is then a minimum of decency to prepare a proposal for a new law. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Liberal Democrats and HSU, I declare that we cannot support such changes for a whole series of reasons and for principle and for concrete reasons. We will try if the law does not return to the first reading of the amendments we have referred to in the procedure to change the bad spirit of this law when it comes to the behaviour of Croatian citizens in the treatment of refugees. But if these amendments don't pass, we can't be in favor of this law. In principle, it does not meet either the spirit or the national needs of the Republic of Croatia. The law on foreigners that we have now is nothing but a reflection of an extremely autistic not to be misunderstood, not in medical terms, but orientation, autistic, closed policies. We have an extremely rigid immigration policy. The Republic of Croatia is among the European countries that have the least foreigners living in it. According to the latest data, it's 0.6%. Just for comparison, one Spanish has 12% of foreigners that I'm not talking about other countries. What's this about? It is a lack of understanding of the long-term demographic needs of the Republic of Croatia. It's not just demographics, it's just a newer natural growth for newborn children, it's not just a family policy, demographics is a long-term thinking of putting into function the entire resources we have and if we don't have people to compensate for it. And what are we doing? We have been implementing such a policy for years that white-world thieves and mobsters are getting Croatian passports without a problem, but in the ordinary world of honest people, high-speed equipment, experts put a noose in their faces and say we will not let you go to Croatia. And then we argue about how many workers will come to shipyards. Well, that's not the point. Look at the structure of the unemployed, look at the structure of the hard-working, and you'll see, ask the Chamber of Commerce, and you'll see how desperately we need expertise and people who carry it. What are we going to do tomorrow when the entire health care system admits to us finally how many human shortages it has, the personnel shortages? We have cases where a prominent foreign diplomat, after a perfectly defined diplomatic internship in the Republic of Croatia, gets the highest honor from the president of the state for everything he has done for relations between Croatia and his country, marries a Croatian citizen, continues to work in his country because he has such status, but occasionally comes to Croatia and does not give him any opportunity to stay here with his wife longer than those famous 90 days within 180 days, and that is a simple visa. But that's why people who have introduced little capital that we don't even know what its origins are without any problem give permanent housing and they have no restrictions at all and they don't live in Croatia at all, but they come a month, no more than two a year. The bureaucratic way of thinking has brought down the ramps at our borders towards quality, good people who would like to come live in Croatia, who have traveled here as tourists, who wanted to buy real estate here, who wanted to design some new life, who were getting married and getting married but the procedures they were going through have been such that they were discouraged since the first step. So we're talking about the spirit of a law that's old and old-fashioned, it's run over by time, and we have to if we want to follow the maximum that Prime Minister Plenkovic put out here that demographic policy is going to be one of the most important policies of this government then we have to change the whole concept of the law and think differently. Does this mean lowering the criteria to those who carry the risks to our safety? Of course not. But it certainly means changing rhetoric towards people who come from other countries and want to live with us. That certainly means that we must never be affected by what happened yesterday when the president in Klein Zeitung said that we received the wrong refugees. We received says men at best, not women and children from Aleppo. Imagine we received refugees who came to us and didn't receive refugees who didn't. Well, it's amazing that a politician in the 21st century treats a man as cannon meat. Forgive me. That's below the level of modern politics. That's how World War I and World War II generals talk. It's not a good message about our image or how we're going to treat refugee situations in the future. If we have already experienced a great experience, as great as we have remained pure in face, which we have shown our humanity, which is where the institutions were unable to react for the first ten days, we have jumped in as citizens, and after the institutions have fully prepared themselves, teamed up, technically established a network, if we have done our job until the end of pure face and humanely why are we now going to criminalization of solidarity? According to the law, this proposal sets out to amend and supplement any person on the path of refugees who have crossed the border illegally providing one single apple, diaper, water or any form of assistance including a orientation to the first possible institution for admission, according to the police, according to the Red Cross, according to the Merhamet, according to any institution that takes care of refugees according to so those who need to contact the refugee in the system. So, if you provide any help, you are criminalizing yourself under these amendments to the law, and this has nothing to do with European directives. So, the part that's being implemented here, and the consequence of the three directives, has nothing to do with refugees and people who have left home out of angry trouble. Few people leave their doorstep and their house just because the sun is better somewhere. The most beautiful sun is where you were born. The homeland is where you speak your heart and your tongue, and no one from your country goes without being distressed by anger. And people like that don't give their hand no good, it's not human. Let's stay people, because our people were refugees too, and unfortunately, our people were just wearing their heads on their shoulders when they ran from where their lives were gone, at least temporarily and thank God. In that sense, we think when we make new laws. Who do we write them for? What's it gonna be worth? Whether we have to be ashamed or better to learn from other people's mistakes, but to strengthen our pride. And because we are concerned about the Croatian Democratic Community club, he did a good thing when he suggested that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act with the final draft of the law be returned to the regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26253	I thank my esteemed colleague, Goran Beus Richemberg, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first came to the line, a distinguished colleague, Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26254	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I would agree with my colleague Goran that we need a whole new law on this topic, because this many changes provide the possibility of major mistakes that will make us more complicated by the whole foreign situation, by foreign workers and by what we need in our country. Because no matter what our people go around Europe with bread, there are a number of jobs that unfortunately in Croatia people don't want to do, so these are big problems with farm workers on livestock farms, on vegetable farms where just our people don't want to or do this job, or they think it's too low-paid work, and our farmers have big problems with workers from the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania want to do such a job for the price they pay here. So far, they have tried to solve this problem more than once, but no government has heard of it, and no law has made it worse. And then we come to the fact that we have illegal workers coming to work, because farmers themselves can't get to do that job, and in Croatia, there are very few such workers. In my opinion, it is necessary to make a new law professionally designed and flexible, to be in the course of the time we are in. And as far as refugees are concerned, you need to be careful. We see the situation in Germany, so it's good to hand it over to everyone in need, and I agree that anyone in trouble should be helped. However, among those in need are a very large number of people who, for some other reason, are moving towards Western Europe and with other intentions and with other cultural and religious definitions that are very difficult to fit into our culture, and that is one danger that should be taken into account, which could later come to all of us in our heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26255	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lenart, for the replica. Replica reply, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26256	I'll start at the end. What you call a danger I see not as a danger but as a challenge. If we have already been so firm in our belief that by celebrating the great anniversary of the declaration of Islam to the state religion, or religion with the right of the public in the Republic of Croatia last year, so if we highlight it as something we have to be proud of then we have nothing to fear. Especially what we don't have to fear when we look at who the refugees were. There are Muslims, if they are contentious to you, it wasn't very much. There are many more who were threatened with their own birth in Syria Language, Christians, all those who are not even close to the shale of life in this world in the beginning had to escape because I met with terrorists meant their death. I wouldn't be afraid of that. Let us not be afraid of it because we have a direct experience of life with different people. But when you mentioned agriculture, I'll tell you, I witnessed the offer of some foreign companies offering Croatia to triple the production of sheep meat. So, everyone... And the sheep and the lamb and the goats and the goats and they buy everything in advance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No way. This Croatia is unable to produce despite its 400 thousand hectares of unprocessed state agricultural land, because this type of work we are unable to develop. Six or seven thousand kunas for the job of someone who will deal with sheep are absolutely below our level, and then this job is done to us by settlers from really distant countries who may never have seen Croatia or sheep before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26257	I thank my esteemed colleague, Beus Richembergh, for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26258	Comrade Gorana, you mention refugees who can fully agree with you that people should be given help, that they should be provided, that they should be protected in this part, fed, put in warm rooms to live like normal people. And I would always agree with that. However, to give foreigners residence in the Croatian state in a simple way, I think it is not good. You can see for yourself that there are already problems in Germany, and the Chancellor's own Germany has already been called in many times in its political and other German media for the part it has done, however that is the case. Remember our war, our refugees who were in Germany, we consider Germany a democratic country that is at least, we'll all say 50 years ahead of us, all our refugees who went to Germany got the refugee statutes, they got help. When the war ended even somewhere where the only shooting stopped when they came was they were already taking them back to their homes, thought he said there was no more war there. I agree with you that such men should be saved from the shooting and all, and when the war is over let them return to their homes. The Croats from the world can't come back here and get their papers. You all know why they left and how these people feel. We need to get these people back, make a democratic country and a good country for them to invest here, there are poor people who would come back, but they're not approved either. Therefore, I agree that in the Croatian state democracy should go, but in one direction, first for Croatians who have been exiled, so all other people who need to be saved when in trouble I fully agree. But get easy documents, you can't do that anywhere in the world in any country. If you're a stranger, you can't get easy documents anywhere in the world. Therefore, let's not bring Croatia down to say that we are not Democrats unless we give the foreigners documents. Come on, the Croats and they cannot get in Croatia, unfortunately, and the foreigners should certainly be checked for droplets released to the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26259	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26260	It is fortunate that HDZ intended to return this law to first reading, otherwise if we had to commit ourselves to that amendment by the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, then he was angry and hooked up because I hope you know when you're talking about us being, by nationality, what we think we are and what we say to ourselves. So each of us can theoretically become Croat tomorrow if it isn't already. And now imagine that everyone alive in this world who says that the Croat is automatically entitled to enter Croatia as this amendment wants. For example, people say that the Croats are of origin from Iran, so in principle, it's a zone for you all the way to Afghanistan. And you know how many of these Haruhatas can come tomorrow and tell you we're Croats, and we're older than you, and they get in without a problem, and they get everything they need. But what I was actually going to say, let's not be afraid of strangers, let's just think about the fact that it's possible that out of these hundreds of thousands of people who have gone through Croatia alone, it seems to me that 40 people have sought political asylum. So I'm ashamed of God they didn't want to stay with us. So what's wrong with us? And then you look at yourself in the mirror and then you see what's wrong with us, we lack a good foreign law among other things, we lack tolerance, we lack such an atmosphere where we create a new value, we are proud of ourselves and others. Much better, more valuable, more busy than we are, less lying, more tolerated, and then they'll want us to come. Well, then of these hundreds of thousands of people, at least 300 people will want to live with us in Croatia. And this is how poor men wind under their heels and go as far away as possible. I was ashamed, I don't know how you deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26261	I thank my esteemed colleague, Beus Richemberg, for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the debate will be shared by distinguished colleague Ervina Lekai Prljask and distinguished colleague Veljko Katazi. Here you are, dear colleague Ermina.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26262	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable State Secretary. I'll look into the Foreign Law today. As for the first one, I would say a proposal that, in order to approve the temporary stay of third-country nationals who are members of the family of Croatian citizens, will not require the proposal to propose evidence of means of restraint, we consider it an improvement of the existing situation. But it is certainly necessary to consider the current practice of the MUP which has shown that in the procedures of the approval and extension of the temporary stay of long-term persons living in Croatia, and many are also members of the family of Croatian citizens, they do not respect enough specific living conditions, nor social and humanitarian reasons. As a result, individuals living long-term in Croatia who, for transition and other reasons that they could not personally influence, did not regulate the citizenship of some of the states in the former Yugoslavia, so they could not even obtain new travel documents. Such a situation particularly affects members of the family of Croatian citizens whose previous stay was approved for family or humanitarian reasons, who could not obtain a valid travel document without going to the country of origin, which rarely resulted in family separation, especially parents from underage children, for a certain period of time. It follows that the insistence on the formal condition of possession of a valid travel document for long-term residents in the Croatian state area or members of the family of Croatian citizens are assumed to be living and humanitarian reasons. We therefore believe that in the process of amending and supplementing the Foreign Law, it is necessary to regulate temporary stay in order to join the family or for humanitarian reasons to further strengthen the position of foreigners living long-term in the Croatian state area or members of the family of Croatian citizens in such a way as to prescribe an exception or that a request for temporary stay is not required to contribute to a foreign travel document in case it cannot be obtained in the diplomatic representation of a foreign country in the Republic of Croatia or when the acquisition of a valid travel document is due to the separation of the family. Similarly, since the number of persons had not been regulated by the temporary stay for humanitarian reasons and if members of the family of Croatian citizens had not had to meet the conditions of the means of maintenance and regulated health insurance provided for in the final proposal, they would be able to regulate the temporary stay for family integration because they would not seek the condition of the maintenance but not that they would be exempt from the conditions of regulated health insurance. Therefore, for all persons who are members of the family of Croatian citizens who have previously regulated the temporary stay for humanitarian reasons, an additional exception should be prescribed. In accordance with the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in Croatia, persons who are assigned temporary stay are obliged to pay monthly contributions to health insurance. And the inability to pay the amount required for health insurance due to poor material opportunities contributes to the creation of a tax debt and debt in this regard one family represents a significant amount of money and are often unpayable. Thus, it would equate the status of a member of the Croatian citizen's family with the applicant for granting temporary stay for humanitarian reasons and would no longer be necessary to regulate the stay for humanitarian reasons for the sake of family integration. When asked a question of knowledge of Croatian language, letters and letters, I suggest that any stranger who has been granted permanent stay be provided free courses of Croatian language and through these courses would be given quality and timely information about laws, traditions, culture and anything that makes it easier for foreigners not to assimilate but positive integration into Croatian society. This expenditure from the state budget would be, would be a kind of investment multiplier that would bring multiple social gains because a stranger who gets to know the environment he came to tomorrow would be easier to get a job, raise children and thus be a valuable member of society. And in the end, she'd say, she'd look back at something about annual foreign employment quotas. The proposal, which provides for the annual quota for the employment of foreigners, should be respected in line with the labour market situation where the lack of workers of certain professions for which increased demand exists will be identified. We suggest that the employment of foreigners is made possible as required by the employer, e.g. an employer who is in need of an employee of a particular profession may contact the employment office which, within 5 days, checks the availability of workers and informs the employer thereof. If, within that time limit, the employment office fails to find a worker of the appropriate qualification, we propose that the employer be granted a permit for the same worker to stay and work of a foreign worker on a specified deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26263	I thank my esteemed colleague. Continuing, imported colleague Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26264	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Madam Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In view of the proposal for a law that is before us, I have noticed just as the Office of the Attorney General that in certain segments there could be a threat to the rights of the socially endangered and that there could be no connection to any other State other than the Republic of Romania. It should be pointed out that the Roma do not have a country of origin, so certain provisions of the proposal for this law are particularly bad for the Roma who would be asked to attach the valid side of the travel document they do not have and cannot obtain. Exceptions must be introduced for those persons who, as you know, live in inhumane conditions, separate settlements, and this way we ask for a secure residence. Although none of them have been listed they were born here with us and it would have been disastrous to burden those persons as if they had come to the Republic of Croatia yesterday. In fact, it is a very specific problem because there is a significant number of Roma who for various reasons have not obtained citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and are born here, have narrow family ties, some kind of housing etc. So it's not really about strangers, it's about people who've been here forever and because of particularly bad circumstances, they haven't been able to exercise their rights. To date, these persons were granted temporary stay for humanitarian reasons precisely because they were unable to meet legal requirements, operating means for maintenance and regulated health insurance, and in particular foreign travel documents. Why is it so not to be specifically explained because we have long recognized it by the National Strategy for the inclusion of the Roma Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments 1 and 2 of the National Minorities Clubs are just trying to equate the status of members of the Croatian family with persons who have had temporary residence status for humanitarian reasons, and who have a strong link with the Republic of Croatia are born here, have close relatives and live here. If Amendments 1 and 2 are not adopted, the space shall be opened so that, regardless of the lack of the need to attach evidence of the means of maintenance to persons who are Roma or members of any other socially endangered group or national minority, they are almost forced to separate themselves from the family unless they are able to present a foreign travel document which they do not have, i.e. a secure residence in which employees of the Ministry of the Interior should make arbitrary decisions. In this sense, it is absurd for persons born and born here to live in the Republic of Croatia to equalise their status with foreigners who arrived in the Republic of Croatia, for example, in the last refugee wave. In this regard, I request that those persons be subject to an exception, i.e. those persons who require temporary or permanent stay are not obliged to apply a valid travel document unless they can be supplied to the Republic of Croatia without separation from the family especially when it comes to the separation of parents and underage children. This entry and formulation has a secure apartment whose erasure is proposed because it opens a space to refuse temporary or permanent stay to persons who are as I have said since birth in the Republic of Croatia, and have no connection with other countries. I think we all agree that persons in these uninvited circumstances should not be further punished and that Amendments 1 and 2 of the national minority clubs in line with the recommendations of the Ombudsman's Office and the opinion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities will strengthen the position of persons who are actually our fellow citizens, not foreigners. I propose to my colleagues and appeal, I will bear in mind that they support our first amendment amending the proposed article 10 in order to protect people from possible permanent separation from the family because they have no foreign travel documents but are firmly linked to the Republic of Croatia. I therefore propose and appeal to my colleagues to support other amendments amending Article 39 in such a way as to protect people who are closely connected to the Republic of Croatia from discrimination because they have no guaranteed housing and because they are under particularly difficult living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26265	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Katazia, for this debate. The following came to the debate in front of the MOST Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26266	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Now, while I'm sitting there listening to the debate, when I look at all the suggestions that come out front, I'm gonna say the biggest club, then I see that I don't think this law should ever be passed. If you saw the consultation on this law started last year in March, we are now in January and if we come to the third reading, well maybe we'll come up with some more, then we'd probably end up in March and at that pace a year at each law. I can understand that there are different views, but I see there are only, so there are 2 sets of amendments that I believe here are that both the Ministry and the Secretary of State to study them so that in this urgent procedure probably what we say here we respect some points of view. I'm so afraid that we're going to put it all under the rug, that then the Minister in the background says we need to change that, and that no one's going to stand by the name and last name of the amendment that he wants to change and determine what's wrong with this law. Or actually someone has to say what we're behind, expose ourselves to the public, and I see it going in the direction that eventually it's going to be that the ministry needs to take that law back, so then you can say here it's good that someone in the Parliament proposes it, so that we have laws. Because when we start discussing strangers, what is it? The law on foreigners is only one part of the wider problem, and that is the problem of demographics, the setbacks we have in Croatia, and we are struggling with it, experts warn us and we solve it so, we catch a little bit of it, and then another piece. But we don't have one whole policy about it. And this is actually an attempt by the Ministry of the Interior, I would say even more technically from those practices that it has out of need on the ground, from an environment that is constantly changing to adapt this law so that they can act more easily. Because we see other countries making these laws, I'd say much more restrictive than ours. They are much under the impression of this immigrant crisis and adapt in a way that even the EU's instances are unacceptable and debated. But we're gonna get to it, let's leave it all together for a year, we don't care what happens. But we'll know how to call the Minister of the Interior when an immigrant shows up at the border, when he stops in some van without doing anything. Well, I can't act when they don't even have a law to act on, so I believe that some of the details that are being presented here right now are certainly not important, but they want to solve the problem that is at our border. That's the problem with me, too, what's going on in the community. These people go through there and somehow they need to get rid of these people. Whether we're helping them, whether or not we're getting back at them, but we need to have some kind of solution that satisfies the interest of the Republic of Croatia. So far, the policy that has been related to the problem of foreigners has been a certain step that we have taken. But here's someone who wants everything that's changed actually was more in favor of the directive, so let's go follow certain orders, so let's translate them directly that come from the EU and we put it into our laws, then we're not satisfied. But we don't have a position, we don't actually have a solution for the problem we want to solve. What we have is the fact that we have become a member of the EU, we have no more obstacles to adopting it, but we also have no obstacles not to make our own solutions which will be that we do not have a standard in relation to the directives or that the conditions in which they are now will be adapted. But here's the research itself saying that any such initiative in Croatia is primarily determined by our socio-economic conditions and policy has no power to resist. We cannot say that the great unemployment, the economic uncertainty that this does not represent a significant factor which, in fact, is a factor of opposition and within that context, then other reasons arise that dominate and create topics that turn away from the path of a solution to the problem. And we are always entering a new context, and then this law should no longer be called the Foreign Law but should have certainly a much bigger one, a broader title that would cover all the problems in Croatia, as it is now presented seems to be not good to someone and we will not solve the problems we should. We see that as regards the adoption of certain directives, we already have a pilot in place, when another law comes to the pilot, it means or we don't want as a state, we have a state view that we don't want to accept that it violates our interests, we fight the commission, or we simply can't agree. I don't know if we have that attitude here. I can't see. I see it's sooner that we can't make a deal, and that's the message we're sending from this esteemed home. 20 I also read here in the introduction made by the ministry, 22 directives, recommendations, decisions, resolutions, all this is something and a number of other shortcomings that have not been observed have been integrated into the draft of this law and even three directives on posted workers. As long as I was a minister as much as I had our companies coming in, and that's the problem of the addressed workers communicating with us, there's a problem. So we don't want to solve things with us, and we don't want to solve our companies when somewhere else they have a problem with how we're going to call when we don't even have national legislation. And if I don't go back to the question of seasonal workers, here we have now that it's also quotas for labour, it's going to be immediately touched, it's increased from three thousand and something to seven, but I'm not just saying it's three thousand foreign workers, or it's seven thousand foreign workers, but if you look at that decision, in fact, which we're bringing here. So I would agree that we bring in IT engineers to bring in highly qualified what we all want. Unfortunately, it seems that it has become a rule that we cannot solve the problem of our own, how much there is almost no full of 240 thousand unemployed, we cannot solve it, but then it is easier to gnaw around the number of quotas that we have allowed and whether we really have such an education that we cannot provide from our young labour force that will be in the construction industry, which will be in shipbuilding, which will be in tourism. When I was coordinator when it came to me, I couldn't believe it when someone told a tourist animator. We need to bring the tourist animators here because our people seem incompetent so that maybe someone, an employer, would train them to be ready for the season and that they would definitely realize the possibility of employment here. No, it's much easier for us to find a cheap solution, go to BiH, go to Ukraine, eat and pull workers from there. And then we come to the paradox, here I was in Germany a little bit visiting, and even there, people laugh when someone comes who's a stranger who doesn't understand, and then they say they're the worst jobs, they're the ones that work for 8.5 euros, that's what's not recognised, and we actually degrade certain types of jobs and degrade and those workers that come from other countries and give them wages below the standards that we want to pay for us. How will we cope with our minimum wages if we offer someone else such jobs? What's very important is this law that needs to be taken into account, and it should only be noticed that one of the measures is the restriction of freedom of movement, in fact, it's that they can't be forced away from the centre for the detention of foreigners. If you return only to the events that we had at the Advent Fair in Berlin, there is also a case that justifies why this measure must be taken because that attacker, Anis Samri, had a criminal past, he was in Italy convicted of a crime. They couldn't keep him because they didn't have the legal basis to hold him until his country of origin deliberately, accidentally issued documents or stalled him, and they let him go. After they let him go, this man goes to Germany, kills a man there, takes his truck, and runs into a bunch of people. And then finally we ask ourselves, and who's to blame? Whether we ask ourselves here in this House or whether the people will ask us if we leave such laws to be passed in some future time that we don't know when they will happen, and in the meantime, things that we don't want to do, that we condemn to others, and we create assumptions that they are just like that. So if we don't want such anise, we need to agree on what minimum standard we want in this law, if we need to agree with the MUP and let's say that we have a consensus. About what we don't all have to go out and say here we think the difference is and we suggest it as a solution. This way I don't see a solution, all I can see is that let's just postpone the decision to solve this one more time. And now, I was going to say that this debate will be constructive, that this debate will be helpful to the Ministry of the Interior but I see that after this, it seems that the minister does not have to say the third reading but to withdraw the law and say when you are ready for an emergency procedure then we will show up again and we will do it because I believe that the problems that arise by not implementing this law require exactly an emergency procedure and not a second rather than a third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26267	I thank my distinguished colleague Tomislav Panenic for the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26268	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Panenic, it is clear to me that you are defending your minister from your quota, but it is not your minister's fault for such a law. And this law was in principle to be created in cooperation between the Ministry of Labour and the pension system and the Ministry of the Interior. Because this is a proposal for a law that only has one goal to transpose three EU directives into our legislation. The ministry took advantage of the opportunity and went to this part of the criminalisation of solidarity, and then we came to the conclusion that people who give a glass of water or a sandwich can be arrested but what is the primary goal of the State Secretary is to transpose the EU directive into this law. And it is better to give it to third reading than to transpose the directives in this way because it is obvious that they have been transferred without the help of professional people from the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Because if you say in the bill that the government can bring quotas and you don't say that the government has to bring quotas, if you say in law that seasonal jobs can be determined and you don't say which and in what way you clearly don't protect your labour market. And it is better that this law goes into second reading, that both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of the Interior finally sit down and lay down a law that will comply with the directive but protect our labour market, our citizens who are looking for a job in Croatia, and not to give you instead of having a highly qualified workforce leaving Croatia because he didn't have a job for them and that we had an unskilled workforce coming in uncontrollably. And that is the goal of this law, which unfortunately did not meet that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26269	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26270	Dear fellow Mrsic, of course, I'm fighting for my minister and I'm going to fight because I've spent a lot of times together in the government and I know when this initiative was launched in March last year and I know what he's up to. And his intention certainly doesn't work so-called. Gold plating that this law must be up to every detail, to satisfy every detail than it wants to be operational so that it can pass on to people on the ground the treatment that will be effective. I'm not personally afraid, and I live in an area where your immigrants pass, they probably pass, and maybe these days and they keep going, and I'm not afraid if I help them... the basic one if I point them in some direction and I know I might break the law, I'm guilty, but I sure as hell know the police won't get there and they'll sanction me. It was a clear intensity when this came up against those who put themselves in a van of dozens of refugees and wanted to manipulate them, they wanted to make money on them. So we have Serbia all over the country, a country that works like that, that transports organizedly, how can you explain that I don't know myself in the Strošinci border showing up at 3,000 immigrants at once? Could it pass in Croatia that 3,000 people will pass through Croatia and deliver I don't know at the Slovenian or Hungarian border and say that's what happened. No, it has to be a law like this, and it has to be punished precisely by those who want to make personal use of the troubles that people have. Therefore, this law, I will surely support it and this is the way I stand and in the name of the club to cultivate then that it is a law that we must agree on and we must bring it forward as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26271	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished colleagues, Željko Lenart, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26272	Thank you, Vice President. So here's what we often see in copying these European directives from trees, and then we interpret it in a variety of ways. I think this law has been under discussion for a long time and the trends in Europe have changed pretty much as regards the closure of Europe for those who come in this refugee wave. So we noticed that Germany had changed politics in this relationship to those people who were coming. As for these refugees and asylum seekers, I have come from Kutina, we have lived with asylum seekers for many years, and sometimes there have been some problems about it, but now something has changed. So I'm not the one who discriminates against all those people. But we must be careful in making this law from that position that Europe closes down without us getting caught up in this story that with this law we remain open and we will be a appendix in which all these people will accumulate and we will not be able to move on because Europe will close its laws. And right here, the directives and guidelines that we receive from Europe need to be carefully studied and thus properly set up that law. I'm sorry that Mr. Richembergh is gone, he said that the Croats are from Iran, but one theory says that there are two lines of people one is a Krapina man another Basque man. This Krapinski has gone a little bit to the Middle East down to Iran, so he's back so much more than we think is Zagori. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26273	I thank my esteemed colleague, Leonard. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26274	I wouldn't want us to just be under the impression that this is about immigrants from the areas of Iraq, Syria and those countries that appear. This law also solves problems and people, foreigners, sometimes foreigners we meet from the origins of Croats, I think other, third generations who have lost Croatian citizenship and live, come to live here, have problems solving their problems or also solve problems from Croats who are in neighbouring countries and want to achieve their rights maximum. Therefore, one thing we need to clearly distinguish is to say such desired immigration and which we want to enable, and on the other hand, the problems that when we come to tens of thousands of immigrants that we don't have the capacity to solve, I would say that this bad situation has actually helped us if we had a good situation with us that these people want to live here, we would surely have passed this law long ago because we would have been forced. This way we may have time to be wise, so we keep looking for 10 solutions. And of course I agree that these directives should be studied, they should be implemented with us but we must certainly have our own contribution. Because the minister, too, is how many times he's been away from the government's session. Where was he? He was at the border, the EU's external border where problems are solved. Therefore, we will not solve the problems of immigrants in Croatia, but we will solve it together if it is an EU policy, it will be common and will solve it right where we most easily stop them, and that I am sure, and by what was so far, it will not happen that these immigrants end up in Croatia and create a problem for us. Because I'm sure it would be a problem if we didn't have the ability to pass not only the law, but the implementation of any other law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26275	I thank my colleague Panenic. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26276	Thank you, Vice President Panenic. In your debate, you expressed your dissatisfaction that this law has been passed for a long time and that you expect this House to be more effective. And I agree with you here that we must make the law faster, that it is too long to pass one law for a year or two days. However, we expect from you or the people in the government to study all the details and study the directives and come before us with quality suggestions that will then be acceptable. And I don't think anyone would have anything against this law and I don't think anyone would mind us being here to pass this law. But the problem is that it's changing 123 articles, which is a series of amendments, which is what the HDZ Club asked for to go into the regular procedure. So make a deal in the government in which way we'll pass the law and which materials we come here to the assembly. And here we also see that both the SDP and the HNS and we, out of opposition against this kind of lawmaking, and especially in the segment, is what bothers me and us in the HSS that we haven't used all the elements of labour market protection, the protection of the domestic worker. In my view, this law would be a tool to resolve in a certain way and to employ in the Republic of Croatia. Austria can say no employment while an Austrian is on the job market for the unemployed. And I think that needs to be solved in Croatia. I agree with you that there should be wider stories about this problem, that the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Education should sit together and see with employers who are the profile of workers who need our and the catering and tourism sectors and shipbuilding, in which way they are retrained to reach these qualifications, be employed. And what's very important is that they have wages to live on. Because you won't tourist... in Dubrovnik for 4 to 5000 kuna, because as long as he pays for accommodation, food, there's nothing left for him, not that he's incompetent or something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want all our workers to get quality qualifications, get a quality job and have a better chance than strangers. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] That's what other countries do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26277	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his replica. Answer, dear fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26278	Thank you, dear colleague Vlaovic. I think you've touched actually what's behind it. Here we want to have people who will form the labour market. It's not just the labour market, it's also new needs, new people coming looking for their place of residence, housing. They're looking for certain other things. I think that's what Germany is doing successfully. All these years it attracts new people to come and it is good as it attracts Croats or people who are similar to us who have integrated, who there in the second generation become German citizens who speak perfectly German. And only maybe here should change that we don't have what C's in, something else so we can be even more acceptable. Then we can say we're from Austro-Hungarian. Here it is, you've noticed well, so we'd like to. But given what I've mentioned, it's a difficult situation. So we still have a large number of our unemployed, but we can see that it's selective. If we're looking for shepherds, then we probably mean someone from Romania should come. But I see that the time is changing, that a Romanian becomes more developed than we do. And it will be a time when we will be able to import such power if we don't return exactly what you said to education, to dual education, to the needs that we have, then we'll sort it out. This way, every year, we'll just solve the consequences of making decisions. So I say let's not put ourselves in a position to deal with the consequences of this law too later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26279	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. This is what we used up the replicas after this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Bozo Ljubic appeared for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26280	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners whose aim is to explain the harmonisation of laws with EU directives. However, my fellow MPs have reasoned that this law needs some more amendments that are not only about the directive, so the amendment that I have sent, i.e. on behalf of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, falls within that category of change. In fact, the existing law is restrictive not only against foreigners like one previous debater but is restrictive towards Croats who do not have Croatian citizenship, especially those who live in overseas countries or those who for any reason have had to give up Croatian citizenship in their present countries of employment and residence. So, according to estimates of relevant institutions in the Republic of Croatia around 3 and a half million Croats live outside the Republic of Croatia, only one part of them has Croatian citizenship. Given that this state and I think there is a consensus in the Croatian Parliament about running an active demographic policy under which immigration is under, then the legislation of the Republic of Croatia should be in line. So the aim of my amendment, if this law still goes according to emergency procedure, if not as a material for the proposing to bring this law into line, is to allow members of the Croatian people without citizenship the same rights as to entering residence, work, employment, education in the Republic of Croatia as well as Croatian citizens. Of course it is the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia, of course it has been translated into the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. One of the previous calls by the Parliament, specifically in the previous assembly of the Parliament on a parliamentary issue by Mr. Ilija Filipovic to change the Foreign Law and to allow Croats without Croatian citizenship to resolve their status, then Prime Minister, Mr. Milanovic replied that the Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia would propose these amendments and additions to the law. It's not done until today. However, something else has been done, the adoption of the Law on Croatian Citizenship has even made it difficult for Croatian citizens or Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to be concrete, and even some Croats from those counties where there are no data on citizenship. So these are all reasons that we on the board decided to react by amendment because I say the law was provided for in an emergency procedure. The amendment is also in line with the legislation of the Croatian so far, because the Law on the Employment of Foreigners, which was in force before the adoption of this Act on Foreigners of the existing, basic amendments on which we are discussing today, read in Article 1(3): "Croats with foreign citizenship or without citizenship are not considered foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law". Therefore, this amendment, which proposes a committee, which reads: "Croatians with foreign citizenship or without citizenship are not considered foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law" was already an integral part of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this amendment is also in line with the obligation to comply with legislation in which the relevant provisions for members of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia are with the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this amendment and this provision are in line with the legislative practice of EU countries that regulate the status issues of non-citizens and foreigners who intend to move in and seek residence and citizenship or only want a residence permit and work in those countries. In fact, German laws distinguish a stranger from an ethical German but in their basic law. In Article 116, paragraph 1 reads: “The laws distinguish between an ethical German and give him and his wife the rights that do not give to strangers. ” Italian laws also determine "Italian citizenship is based on the principle of origin by which Italian was born of a father and mother of an Italian woman". Slovenia also distinguishes an ethical Slovenian without citizenship from a foreigner. The Law on the Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders in the section of the status of Slovenians without citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia determines the rights of that category of Slovenians. So in Article 58, it states "the Republic of Slovenia is the home country of all Slovenians, which is why it also recognises to Slovenians without citizenship in its territory a special status which provides special rights and benefits for the appointed ones". Article 60 states: “Slovenian ethnicity (Slovenian origin) is proved by a copy of the Motherbook of born and other authentic documents. ” Article 1 also states: “It is not the condition that the ancestors of the person who wants to get status come from areas where the Republic of Slovenia is today, the ancestors of the person who wants to get status can come from outside the present borders of the Republic of Slovenia” or in Article 66 of the Article 66 “Slovenians without citizenship determine the rights and, among other things, the right to acquire ownership of property under the same conditions as those of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the advantage of candidateing for job vacancies if they meet the conditions for doing business in front of other foreigners, where they are referring to foreigners who are not EU citizens. The right of persons with the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship as referred to in Article 1(1) of this article must be respected by all employers in the Republic of Slovenia." So without these repairs concerning the rights of Croats without citizenship and without these changes in the law, especially the Croats living in countries where there is no Croatian consulate are affected. Croatians who had to ask for leave from Croatian citizenship to keep jobs in Austria, Switzerland, Germany, the second and third generations of Croats who live especially in the overseas countries, who get Croatian citizenship very hard and slow, and here it has been pointed out several times in these problems. Croats from BiH who do not have Croatian citizenship yet, who come to work in Croatia, many are forced to work in black because their request lies somewhere in the consulate or in some police administration in the Republic of Croatia. So that this law, as counterpart Panenic said, in addition to migrants solves the issue of Croats without Croatian citizenship, then this amendment of mine, our amendment from the board would not be necessary. In addition to all this, when we take all this into account, and the amendments proposed by the Ombudsman, a total of 11 amendments and these reasoned debates we have heard, I truly welcome the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club that this law goes to another reading because there are many other problems. Here one of the MPs pointed out the problem that the spouses who were diplomats, I also point out the problem of Croatian citizens who have family members of the wife, wife, children who are not Croatian citizens, and who stay in Croatia for any reason, job, humanitarian reason etc., and cannot take out valid documents in the Republic of Croatia in fact that the countries of their citizenship do not have diplomatic and consular representation in Croatia, so they are forced to separate families, children from parents, husbands and wives from each other to go to their countries of origin. So these are all reasons that actually motivate us to resolve this issue, and of course I say hello that this law goes into another reading and then this debate and this amendment that we have attached on behalf of the board are actually material that will help the ministry or the competent ministries prepare an appropriate proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26281	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26282	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Ljubic, in your presentation, I heard the word "restrictive application of the law to Croats outside of Croatia. If I can state this example here publicly, it happens to our Croats here specifically in Županja, the man who is registered at one address has a Croatian ID card, lives in Bosnia Posavina, otherwise from Bosnia Posavina invites him to the MUP to come and say nicely you have a Croatian ID card, says I have, give it to me and just cut it off. And the end, done. No explanation of where you are, what you are, what you're for anyway. It happened to the same girl who works in Brussels, in Vukovar the same thing happened because she wasn't home, they cut her ID card. At our borders, however, in our Vukovar-Srijem County police, Serbs who sleep in Serbia, live in Serbia, return to Croatian affairs, and nothing happens to them. I ask again whether only the laws of the Croats relate that every little thing must be respected and that the Croats do not let God come from America, from Australia from all over the world for six months can't get a ID card in our consulates, in our offices. And that is the shame, we must first fight for the interests of Croats outside Croatia, their interests of protection, try to motivate them to come to the Croatian state to live also those who have no money and those who can invest with very, very, very easy receipts of paper and other documents they need. However, here we are making restrictive laws and we would not give God from, as soon as he came from Syria give him, or no matter I am sorry for these people from whatever country we are not then enough Democrats and the moment should give them papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26283	Thank you, dear fellow Muscle. I'd like to ask you one more time. The next time you have a hearing, we'll compensate for one minute. Answer, dear colleague Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26284	I mean, my colleague Misic, we agree, of course, on the essence of this problem. Therefore, both this basic law and therefore the amendments and additions to the laws proposed by the Ministry or by the Government actually address the problem of people from third countries of their stay, employment, etc. Noting that the problem of EU citizens has been resolved. And in fact, our priority should be to solve the issues of our countrymen who, as I said, have over 3.5 million in the world and only one small part, therefore has solved Croatian citizenship and some will never solve it. After all, and through this law, so I do not want to say that through this law we will solve all these problems so Croatian, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia without Croatian citizenship but part of it we will, the rest will have to be resolved through the Law on Citizenship and other laws and regulate those rights to obtain citizenship in a easier way. Because in fact many of us here have repeatedly found that the basic problem of Croatia is therefore the problem of demographic erosion that we have been suffering for years, and lately for here and for economic reasons. In fact, our goal is to involve Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in the social, political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia and through these laws and through the Constitution where we will, through the Election Law, where we will both vote, and e-voting, and a lettering vote, and thus actually motivate these people to come to Croatia, to move in, to invest, and thus contribute to overall social development by calculating both demographic and economic and every other reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26285	I thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26286	Dear fellow Ljubic, we have touched on the subject of Croats, and we can speak primarily of BiH and Serbia where we have not solved the problem. We haven't solved the meaning since we've been, here's 25 years as we admit and the club that's sent this to another reading how many times has he had a chance to solve it? Let's go back to why there's never been a decision to get rid of when maybe the political conditions were better, when the economic situation was better, when we add the consensus I think there's always been and no one to make that decision. I don't know if they've all been anti-rubbers so far, so now we're going to be the real Croats in 2016 because we have a consensus or it's simply a deeper problem that we haven't dealt with enough to find a solution for these people's problems that they face in a country they consider parenting. And I agree that these Croats who are here with all their problems consider us a country of origin and I agree that we should solve the problems. Whether this is the Foreign Law, when I think of the fact that we Croats belonging to the Croatian Corps will declare a foreigner then he would say that he does not belong under this law, he should belong under one special law and I exactly expect that the proposal will come from your club to finally resolve the issue of Croats belonging to the Croatian Corps that we simply do not have to consider it under every law that comes as a special provision that will be put in place somewhere. That maybe we've solved a detail and never solved the question that's been bothering these people this whole time. And we see here, especially after the EU has joined them, it's getting harder and eventually what they crossed over the field yesterday is the border they can't cross.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26287	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. The answer to the line, Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26288	Since the beginning of your debate, I have understood an illusion in fact that HDZ is in fact in some way responsible for what this issue is today that we are solving with this proposal, which has not been resolved before. I'm just going to remind you that this law on foreigners, so this basic version that we're talking about today, is going to bring us changes and additions to 2012. That's what I was talking about in my debate. But it doesn't matter now. And, of course, it's not just the role and mission and responsibility of HDZ or HDZ Club to solve this issue. Finally, this amendment, which reads Croatians with foreign citizenship and without citizenship, is not considered to be foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law, was unanimously adopted on the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, where, as I say, members of almost all clubs participate. So your club and SDP, etc. etc. Therefore, it should be, therefore, the responsibility or consensus of Croatian politics, regardless of who the government is, who the opposition is because they are the interests of the Republic of Croatia. And this debate of mine and this amendment that I have explained on behalf of the board is, in fact, the least relevant to the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. They can easily reach Croatian citizenship due to the proximity of the Republic of Croatia, due to several consulates of the Republic of Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is primarily about Croats living in countries and abroad, in diaspora and especially in overseas countries, and it is known that there are even no consulates in some South American countries where they can solve the issue or even submit a request. Thus, it is that through the Foreign Law we only solve a part of the problem to enable these people to enter, stay, hire, school. Of course, he will not automatically have all the rights that Croatian citizens have, the right to vote, etc. etc. This will be resolved through Croatian citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26289	I thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic for his reply. With this, we have exhausted the replicas of this debate. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's the debate going on, but I think we're dealing with problems that weren't meant to change this law. So the ministry could have gone that way, which would have probably been simpler because then there wouldn't have been this much debate. Because obviously this debate that was today deserves a new version of the Foreign Law with all these examples, the amendments we've heard today. However, I would like to mention that the main objective of this proposal for a law is to implement three important directives – the Directive on the implementation of the Directive on the posting of workers in the context of the provision of services, the Directive on the conditions of entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment in the status of seasonal workers and the Directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in the context of intra-Community migration. These are the three directives that we had to transpose into this law, and apparently, when the ministry opens up the issue of the law, it wants to solve other things, and so it got involved in things that were not the main objective of amending this law. The objective of mentioning the three directives is to ensure a uniform approach by all EU Member States to regulate immigration policy and its impact on labour market policies of EU Member States. Provide free access to foreign nationals of countries outside the EU. Because as you know for EU citizens, our market is free except for those who have banned us, so we and them are. The Directive allows you to impose certain restrictions on transposition into national legislation in order to protect your labour market and ensure priority in the employment of your own citizens and citizens of other EU members. Therefore, the directive is not only for our citizens, but also for citizens of other EU countries who have the right to work in Croatia under all conditions, as well as for our citizens, and to protect workers by preventing abuse. So third-country workers of this directive protect against possible abuses. So that was the aim of these directives and implementations. I am sorry to have to say again that this goal has not been achieved because the directive itself was implemented by the book without looking inside that there is a provision of legal finesse that we could better regulate our labour market. Because if you put in the law that the government can bring quotas, and you don't put that the government has to bring quotas, then you have the possibility that the governments go and don't bring them, just let the workers from third countries get into the labour market. On several occasions, openness has been discussed here, but it is not a question of openness of the labour market or not, but it is a question of how to implement the directives at the same time, these three EU directives, but also to protect your own labour market and that is the government's task. It's not the job of this Parliament. It is our job to say that it suits us, we will raise our hands for it, but it is not our job to even read the directive, to implement the directive, but also to protect our labour market. Seasons aren't professional labour and let's get this straight. What is repeatedly said is that the professional workforce leaves Croatia 85 thousand a year, a record, and on the other hand, this law, if we implement it like this, would allow us to enter a low-skilled workforce. At the same time, the Government does not propose measures to keep these professionals, meaning our citizens who do not have a job here, go out, and enables the entry of a low-qualified workforce that will result in the downturn of the labour price, and not only for their competitive jobs but also for the price of work for these highly skilled workers. Therefore, Croatia will have some paid jobs and we will not be able to attract the other workforce that we do not have in Croatia. If we are interested in protecting our own unemployed and allowing them to be employed, and not by strangers, any smart government would take advantage of the opportunities provided by these directives. This law is not only a matter of harmonisation with directives as well as the representative of the HDZ Club Mr Bačić has tried to tell us several times, but reflects the government's policy towards our labour market and the employment of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. For example, this mass approval of foreign employment quotas in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, politics itself is not cleverly designed, I have no visions, no strategies how to regulate the labour market so again I mention young professionals leaving us, and we are opening the door for the entry of unqualified labour force. And in that way, and what little jobs we could hire ours from the Employment Service, we shut it down for them. On the issue of regulation and development of our labour market, I should open a wide discussion and I am glad that this goes into another reading, so the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System will finally sit down with you and agree on how to implement these directives because I have not heard anywhere that the Ministry of Labour and Pension System has said anything about these directives, but that's not a job, it's not a cor business, you don't have people who understand the directives and who know those fines that would allow us to protect our labour market. I note again, if this is implemented and in the third reading we open our labour market for uncontrolled labour imports, the consequences could be catastrophic, and the worst one is the reduction in labour prices for Croatia to be a country of low-paid workers, low-skilled workers, a country in which services are provided, and not a country where new added value is created, Croatia to be a richer country than it is. What I'd like to ask the secretary of state, so when it's finished answering me, one very simple question. Do you have any estimates of how many people could enter Croatia as seasons, based on what you wrote in the law? And did you even make any judgments when you wrote this law? Very simple two questions. Is there any idea how many seasons they're going to come in and do you have any judgments? The law itself isn't well written, and I'm sorry we're spinning around here about whether it's MOST's or HDZ's minister, it doesn't matter. We are dealing with the rights of Croatian citizens who have citizenship or do not have citizenship, this needs to be clearly and wisely arranged, but I think the MUP was wrong when it wanted to solve everything all of a sudden. It was only for the directives to be resolved so that the EU would not drive our pilots and not put us on a pillar of shame, because here we are late and we are very late for certain directives and could be dealt with in better ways. Dear gentlemen, if you do not want to publicly reveal the intentions of completely destroying this fragile labour market that has just begun to recover, then this law reveals to you how you favor employers because employers are those who require full liberalisation of the labour market and the opening of the labour market towards unqualified, cheap labour force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26291	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for this debate. We move on to the next individual debate, distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26292	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I'd like to say that often in this esteemed House we deal with the consequences, not the cause of the problem. And now what's going on? We have some laws that regulate the way in which the country enters, etc., but it is evident that these laws are not respected at all, means that many illegal migrants simply pass through our country as, as you would say, as a slave in transit or as a part of a transit or I say they are being kept, without them asking for valid travel documents, means a visa for our country or I don't know a Schengen visa or whatever, which will say that our country is not at all able to keep its borders. That's the problem this law doesn't speak of at all. So we have all the laws on paper, there's no pay-out crime, there's no censorship on paper, there's no censorship on paper, there's rule of law, there's no government, there's no government, but in practice we see that we don't have anything and we don't actually have our own money because our currency is just a bonus for the euro, now they want and the currency is abolished. So we deprive ourselves from day to day of the mark of all possible sovereignty. This policy the current government is going to run for what? Finally, our borders will be abolished, so let's say according to Slovenia and Hungary for starters, otherwise the first measure Hitler's Germany made during Anschlus Austria was the breaking of border crossings and they depicted it as a triumph, i.e. the taking of Austria. The measure will soon be waiting for us, the removal of the currency, to enter the country whoever wants it without any valid paper, etc. etc. And what will our lands eventually come to? We'll have a flag, we'll have an anthem, we'll have representatives who hold their right hand on their hearts and who actually care about Croatia until its sovereignty as well as those who have given their lives in defense of sovereignty actually won't care about them at all, nor do they care because if they cared they would fight for the sovereignty of their own country, for its survival, for its territory etc. Here's a bizarre example, apropo Law on Foreigners and the Czech Vita Jedi case. We on the meaning of this left coast of Danube there are 10,000 hectares that catastranly belong to Croatia, whether Croatia ever went to establish there sovereignty the answer is not. Why? Obviously, there is no need for that in Croatia. Did Croatia, for example, condition Serbia's entry into the EU by returning Sarengrad Ada, or does it mean that its Catastrian territory is returned to Croatia? No, but as a threat to the sovereignty of the Croatian state, who is represented as a threat to the sovereignty of the Croatian state? Whit Jedi. Vit Jedlika is a man who I say according to the Foreign Law, he is deported, he is presented as a challenge and the threat does not know Croatia as a whole what is already, and not a threat to Croatia the integrity of those who are raising foreign interests, those who want to abolish our country's own currency because it is a long-term goal, the long-term goal is to abolish the kuna, introduce the euro, abolish borders, etc. etc. And I end up asking myself one question if free all foreigners will be able to live in Croatia, half a billion of them from across the EU, if we're going to get into a situation where we're going to have one currency of the euro, in a situation where there's no limit, in a situation where anyone can enter our country without valid travel documents, what was the war? What did people give their lives to? The only one who has profited from that war is unfortunately we who sit here in the Parliament, we are well, but the average citizen of our country who survives from month to month, hundreds of thousands of whom have had to leave our country these people have not profited. They are only at a loss, and the people who gave their lives for the sovereignty of a country whose sovereignty was later given up for whom they fought. To what extent is our sovereignty so to speak evaporated evaporated? We've got directives coming up, that's what my colleague Bulj noticed. He says what are directives? Is democracy when the directives come from Brussels and says you have to do this or that? Is that a democracy of dear ladies and gentlemen? Whether in Croatia the people bear power or hair in Croatia have people from Brussels, people who say the Foreign Law will look like this and like this. I have a feeling that we don't make any laws here at all, that we're simply determined any quotas, that you're going to be accepted by so many refugees, I don't know or whatever, you're going to produce so much and so much, in the end we have directives, we have quotas as well as in the age of socialism, as well as in the age of socialism. Nothing has changed, ladies and gentlemen, on television is still one-of-a-kind and there are debates like here we see the Foreign Law, and the question is whether it's the law that plagues our citizens, whether our citizens are more concerned with the extraction of electricity and water, where the man in Split freezes in this winter because his life has been threatened by leaving him without actually living conditions. His own state has unplugged his electricity and water. Some will say it's not human rights, not everyone has the right to electricity and water, those who don't have the money to live in the dark and be thirsty. It's the ladies and gentlemen of politics that this HDZ government, together with the MOST, is unfortunately run by former SDPs, and while people are blocked by accounts, while 500 kunas of debt are taken, while the justice system doesn't work at all, we're discussing here today what? About the Foreign Law, about a law that doesn't even concern the citizens of our country. Why is this Foreign Law a priority, why is it that he came to the front row, why is it not some law to protect people, for example, from the extraction of electricity and water, that provides them with replacement accommodation, so how many homeless people sleep on the trams? In general, the issue of the status of the homeless who are Croatian citizens we are not dealing with this, we are dealing with in the Croatian state the status rights of foreigners, EU citizens and those who are not and ultimately no problems for our people, for our country are being solved. This debate will not change anything or change anything for our citizens, and believe me, it won't be much for these foreigners either because there are few foreigners who come to Croatia because they found a promised land here, a place where they will live and work. After all, even those who left it Serbs at the time of the war, i.e. During the storm they do not want to return to Croatia either. Now we're in the country, this is a paradox. When Serbs were fired in the early 1990s, their business associates thought they were Serbs, so what do I care? But tomorrow the company is gone, and then they're out of a job like the Croats. And when the Serbs went away, they fled from Croatia, and they didn't want to go back, and they didn't want to come back because they had nowhere to go, there's no way back, there's no way to go back, they don't have anywhere to work, they don't have a place to work and they said, "What, don't come back, who cares about them?" However, today the Croats are fleeing from our own, from their own country and are actually threatening to disappear from these areas. These problems, the problem of leaving last year, 82,000 people in this House are not being debated at all. And there's a question that's actually the point of all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26293	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for the debate. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26294	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This law has three essential characteristics. First of all, he's completely falsely reasoned. Second, he's embarrassingly inhuman. And the third one shows a complete misunderstanding of demographics. So let me explain these three characteristics. In light of this reason, it is said that the Foreigning Law rests on 22 EU directives, and is now being adopted because of three new ones. And only for that. And that's why he has the P.Z.E. code. But the HDZ Club knows that the laws that have the P.Z.E. code are. do not put in another reading, but simply adopt the directives because they must be adopted by sending and asking with full justification for this law to be considered in the second reading. But that means that the only reason why this law is passed is because the three new directives are false, false. It is a cover to get into the law something that has nothing to do with EU directives, which has to do with one of the government's xenophobic policies. Why is this law deeply embarrassing and inhumane? When we talk about strangers, then we have to notice that there are two groups of foreigners. One is refugees and exiles, the other is some kind of economic immigration. Let's see this first group of refugees and exiles first. Unfortunately, Croatia had such a destiny that it also received a large number of refugees and exiles from Bosnia in World War II, but also that a number of Croats escaped to third countries, Scandinavian countries for example. Well, if the Scandinavian countries had the law you're proposing here, then our fellow citizens would have had a very bad time. And it's ironic, it's ironic that we, whom others have taken care of as refugees, propose a law like this. He represents this one criminalization of solidarity. He says that a person will be punished, punished if he accepts the accommodation of a stranger, means if he helps a stranger unless it is about ending life, preventing injury or providing emergency medical assistance. He predicts that such a stranger will be expelled without a hearing, so that our war refugees who have arrived in Norway are expelled without a hearing would say that this is deeply inhumane, and today we, not us, but you are proposing such laws. If such provisions are made I swear to you I will write a letter to the Holy Father who has stood a hundred times for the rights of the refugees. I will write to him what a government that otherwise considers itself to be a Christian, deeply Christian, religious government, as it proposes. I'll explain it to him, remind him, he knows, of course, that the whole family was a refugee family from Nazareth to Bethlehem, that Jesus was born as a refugee. And now one such Catholic or country with a majority Catholic population suggests such an xenophobic chauvinist law. It's deeply embarrassing, it's inhumane, it's inhumane. We must be ashamed of that and we are covering it with EU directives. Why is it, if it were actually one I'd say ethnic panic. We are afraid of these foreigners who, of course, are not Croats because they come from other countries, come from the east. And it will violate our ethnic purity of this Croatia and it is very dangerous for us and it is actually an ethnic panic that is very difficult to justify. We'd like to, we're talking, we're gonna help these people, we're gonna help them, and on the other hand, we're afraid they're gonna pollute our space ethnically. Several times it was brought out here in this debate, counterpart Misic at least ten times. Now why he represents a complete misunderstanding of demographics. 82 thousand people moved out of Croatia last year, while we were in power of HDZ blamed our government, politically. Since you came to power, that eviction has been speeding up. Most people usually move out of the area where HDZ is in power, but I'm not going to use it as politically as you do, I'm not going to use it as an argument because people go away for a variety of reasons. They leave first and foremost in search of a better life, for a better profit, and that's legitimate. Well, among other things, we have entered the EU as a single common market, a large labour market. The HDZ representative, Bosnjakovic, said, boasts that while he was a minister in the government, they did not allow work permits for shepherds, although they are not in Croatia. And those who want to do shepherding in Croatia can't deal because in Croatia people don't want to be shepherds, they don't want to be shepherds. They'd rather go to Italy to do other jobs, Germany, Austria, but they don't. So he boasts that he worked in a government that doesn't understand anything at all. That the labour force needed in Croatia must be allowed to be imported. Well, our welders are going to the malls in Italy, and we're going to have welders from Romania, but that's right, that's labour migration. That's what you need to understand. Demography is not only the birth of Croats and these are demographic movements and they should be understood, but only someone who but absolutely does not understand any of this can propose such laws. And finally, it's about the return of Croats from the world, the need to work on it, from Croatia the HDZ state has been in power for 18 years, so look at me that without a party I've been an individual for 18 years in power, all one by one. I'd call them all on the phone one by one. So what did you do 18 years without returning them, what did you do? In the last year alone, 82 thousand left Croatia. But that's what it's all about, but it's nothing but that ethnic paranoia. These people left Croatia with bread, went looking for a better life, and they found it there and were already in the second, third, fourth generation. Blaze that they will return here to Croatia for difficult living conditions, forgive her minus intelligently.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26295	I thank my esteemed colleague, Nenad Stazic, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26296	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You told your colleague Stazić the chauvinist law, the chauvinist government, Christians, so Croatia is a plural society, there are people here in our Parliament and in most and in the minority of people who are Islamic religions, who are atheists. So you said very uglyly that the chauvinist, now that I tell you that you are a chauvinist. ...that we're chauvinists. Where do you see a chauvinist? I live in a village where I live with the Serb National Minority I am extremely proud of these people and as a volunteer of the Homeland War, as people, patriots, patriots and indeed have a good co-existence and I am proud of these people, but your shameful statement that we are chauvenists, that we do not tolerate other people, other people who will come here it is at least possible to respond to the same extent that the chairman did not warn you that the word chauvinist is not fair. I don't see any chauvinists here, only you can turn the thesis that I tell you that you are a chauvinist because you insult someone's religious beliefs or people of atheists or those who are Islam worshiping either Catholics or people of Orthodox religion. It's a very ugly story, Mr. Stazic. The Croatian people helped Muslims, i.e. To Bosniaks from BiH, half a million people in the Homeland War received it. A Croatian soldier in BiH has prevented a Chetnic genocide over Bihac, worse than in Srebrenica. The Croatian man is a human and of course national minority in Croatia and such a difficult qualification to say that chauvinists that ethnic paranoia towards someone is at least regrettable in this House. But I'm more surprised by the chairman who at least gave no warning on those statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26297	I thank my colleague Bull for this replica. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26298	When it is said in one law that a person crossing Croatia's border will be expelled without being heard, when one law stipulates that punishment will be imposed on every Croatian citizen who helps the one who came here, who gives him accommodation, and this bill says it's chauvinistic. And when you've identified yourself as a chauvinist, I can't help you anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26299	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. The Republic was contacted by distinguished counterpart Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26300	... Which went from the Republic of Croatia somewhere wet, I guess, to Italy, to a shipyard. [[Specially enabled.]] And when you said that, I remembered a government a few years ago and a bile debate about how a shipyard wasn't perspective, how it had to be shut down by force. It's a shipyard in the Queen. You probably remember that well because at the time your people were in power. Unlike then, this shipyard now, even though it was closed for work, produces currently one ferry, although the cranes are, the docks were all dragged out of the Queen. It was closed something that worked for a hundred and a few years and experience and knowledge could have been very easily lost that one undertaking fortunately didn't catch up with our homework even though it had to bridge hundreds of barriers to get to work. Still, a few of those welders that you were supposed to have, if the rest had been completely closed, would probably have ended up in that Italy. I want to say that we must not generalize and invoke but accept the fact that your ministers have made decisions that have forced these people out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26301	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26302	The queen stood on her feet and imagine she produced one ferry. No, I don't have two, in two minutes, in 20 minutes, it wouldn't be enough time to list all the economic entities that have been shut down, that have disappeared, that have been destroyed during the HDZ government. Don't make me prepare myself tomorrow and answer you in some replica because that list is huge, and the number of people who have lost their jobs and who, because of your governments, had to leave this country is their name, the Legion. And it would be better to have ears on your head in that respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26303	Dear colleague Stazić and colleague Klaric I would ask you in the future to stick to the topic because neither the Queen nor the other companies have anything to do with the subject of the Foreign Law and I would ask you to choose the words you say in the Croatian National Assembly. Thank you very much. We move on to the next individual debate, distinguished counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26304	Dear Mr. Vice President, I will refer to a specific article in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Foreigners Act, or here we hear that it will probably not be final, so this is not a problem for me to put into the final proposal later. This is an article 18, or article 56, to be amended. In this article, 56 states “The members of the rope family within the meaning of this law are mates, persons who are in the extramarital community, then life partners or informal life partners, children, parents and adoptors.” However, in some laws I would say lower order, which is not organic, those higher order as the Life Partnership Act really mentions that the life partnership of the community of family life is two persons of the same sex concluded before the competent authority. Also, as there is an out-of-marriage community institute, there is the Institute of Informal Life Partnership and it is mentioned that it is also a community of family life of two persons of the same sex who have not concluded a life partnership with the competent authority. I don't think these laws are allowed, that this foreign law must not prejudge something that isn't in that organic law, and that's family law is not foreseen. On the other hand, I must also refer to the Council of Europe directive, which we must also respect, and this is the Council of Europe's directive on family integration, because it is family members that are listed for the purpose of family integration, the article preceding this article is Article 17. So says Article 9 of that directive, family integration refers to family members, or spouses and children. Here we put something in this law that is not provided for by the directive and is not provided for by the Family Law, so here is my proposal to change this, or now we have time through two readings to bring this into line with the existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26305	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. Replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26306	Thank you. Here's what I'm going to say to the government. Here's what you said. And she put it on because she... and she put it on because if she hadn't put it on anyway, it would have to apply because Croatia would have paid as paid 40 thousand kuna, it seems to me, according to the European Court of Human Rights, when she discriminated against a person for exactly this reason, as you said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, let this provision stand as it stands is no reason to criticise the bill. After all, it seems to me that this provision was in consultation with the interested public at the beginning of the term of office of the last government. This law, Mr. Panenic spoke on behalf of the MOST club, and then I commended the government of Mr. Oreshkovic for it. Therefore, you will solve your coalition problems within your coalition and what is good in the bill do not ask it out now. And I'm saying that because of the attitude that you've expressed, Croatia has already had to pay, I think it's 40 thousand kuna, according to the European Court of Human Rights for the same situation, so when she discriminated against people who are in a life partnership, the same-sex community because she wouldn't let them join the family under the Foreign Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26307	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bauku, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Zekanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26308	My colleague Bauk, I have just read it today, and I will repeat again under the Council of Europe Directive in Article 9 of the Family Merging refers to family members, i.e. to spouses and children, so that here something is prejudged and here my proposal is also to really define in the Family Law what family members are because it is not mentioned there. Even so, it is indirectly mentioned in several places by parents and children, but it is not in the Family Law that the family members are listed, so it should finally be introduced that we do not have these dilemmas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26309	I thank my esteemed colleague Zekanovic for his reply. Replica esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26310	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Zekanovic, the directive, if you did not know, sets minimum standards. No EU country is, therefore, what it must put in place but is not allowed to set higher standards than what the directive proposes. Therefore, you are completely wrong because the directive again mentions setting minimum standards for all EU countries, and it is for each EU country to accept these standards or raise them to a higher level. And what's done in law I think it's commendable and should stay, let's not go below the level we've achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26311	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. Answer, dear colleague Zekanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26312	Dear fellow, as long as you mention the minimum standards, I have one more thing to mention here, and that is a referendum on constitutional definition of marriage. In the referendum, 65.9% of Croatian citizens voted for marriage to be between women and men. But then later you introduced that new Life Partnership Act, where you actually played the whole story in a very perfidious way. It turned out that the referendum refers to the word “marriage, ” the four letters whether marriage is rather than the institution of marriage. So when we talk about this, we must first of all keep in mind what the Croatian people wanted, and our Croatian people wanted to protect marriage, then to protect the institution of the family, and later, through this law, in a perfiduous way, the expression of family life, so that later and in law, I would say that the members of the family and the informal life partner, i.e. the life partner or not binding under the Council of Europe directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26313	I thank my esteemed colleague Zekanovic for his reply. The following has been reported for individual debate by distinguished counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26314	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's what we heard from the debate about the Foreign Law. We've heard stories about many directives. We're witnessing tireless here and suggestions about chauvinists, ethnic paranoias. Indeed, when we talk about this law, it happens at a time when we have the exploitation of resources and human potentials from the Republic of Croatia, when everything worth young to us because of bad policies, because of the Homeland War goes to a third country. It is a fact and it is evident how many people have left Croatia in the last 15 years and what a demographic picture it is. The result is as I say 2/3 of Croatia are literally empty, Slavonia, Lika, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora. And of course, today when we have crisis situations in the world, and mostly in North Africa and Asia, and that's spreading. We see as I said earlier that refugee crises are so much so that these people run into epic proportions. So, the phenomenon is like the village of the people. It's just that the states on the map are overwritten. They are still seen on the map simply, no longer in these areas of many countries, and of course there is no more, there is terrorism, there is what is threatening the existence of these people. However, among refugees, we also have those who are causing great evil to Western civilization, i.e. by populating certain areas. To today's Western world, and that's what we see as a threat to terrorism. In this debate, it is evident that it has been seen from a human aspect that certain people who are in a difficult situation need of help. However, it is necessary to tell what help is, and what is the exploitation of human victims and the collection of these people in order to transfer them because we have many largely refugees, we have many situations where people were literally in vans in various vehicles, trucks simply dying for the sovereign Republic of Croatia, which is internationally recognised 25 years ago, the demographic picture is catastrophic, and policies have not done what they need to do. So these laws we make about foreigners under the EU directive before joining the EU have not been warned with this people. We must respect as well as a number of other laws which Croatia must now simply respect. When I come to Parliament every day, there's a directive waiting for me. I still don't understand whether it's a directive or an order, an order. And imagine in the Parliament in which we are here at this point, unanimously there was a vote to join the EU or so. a referendum when in one village you want to move the road to the foot of the leg, then when you call a referendum triba you 50 plus 1 vote. And it was such a marketing that it didn't take that long. There have been no public debates of relevant, true for and against. I'm back at the same time when I was an ordinary citizen, I wasn't, and now I'm but in the role of MPs, the stars are shining. Croatia will flourish, Croatia will be brought, you know where Croatia is brought? Research, saying that a billion people, I said, want to come to the EU area, and we have left empty, unprotected spaces both in Croatia and in BiH where Croats are inhabited, unprotected. It's all the policies that have been implemented here, that's the fact. We talked a little before about the Split Smuggling, let's go to the workings that are liberalized I am personally to protect the Croatian worker, if what have we done? We've lost hundreds of thousands of people, now there's no one to work with. But by introducing laws and these EU directives, which are mentioned here liberalising each time, the number is increasing so that people from other countries come to work in the Split Square and others who are much cheaper labour than Croatian workers who are much more quality, experienced and go to third countries, in Vietnam. Or our cattlemen went to live where they dealt with agriculture in Slavonia went west. Now it's no longer a problem to buy cattle, but who's gonna guard the cattle? And we have empty hectares and numerous stables or farms empty. And when we talk about this law, Croatia must be clear there and it should be clear to the politicians that Croatian territory is empty except the Zagreb area and a few major cities. It's very simple to check, just pass through Lika, Gorski kotar. And the policies are terribly bad on this issue, everyone is calling for regional development, for even development, but the fact that the state is centralised, that living well around Zagreb will unfortunately be the pressure of foreigners on Croatia. There's going to be a lot of pressure on those empty areas if they want a billion people to come live here. I believe that the law... liberalization of the legislation of liberalisation of the market i.e. The labour force that will come here, in the case of quotas that rise and descend, should be protected by Croatian workers. And they release a number of directives that are former governments and I see former ministers reporting a lot, so we continue today, I think we need to protect and change immediately. The EU won't give us much, we can laugh. Let's put our trust in each and every peasant says that, the simplest peasant. Academic educational citizens have led this country to Croatia for the past 20 years, elites, creams have brought the country into this situation. That's a fact. And no one's responsible for the situation. Maybe someone's been peeling potatoes for a day, two, three. We need to be serious about these laws, the Croatian state is becoming more empty, demographically exploited maximum, what is worth going to third countries and I think we need to be much stronger in this law, mainly in the workplace than for workers, labour, and protect the Croatian educated man and ordinary worker. But this is all the consequences of the bad policies in agriculture, the tycoons have been favored, the energy has been all over the place, and unfortunately those who, by some criteria, should have not had a chance, searched for their chance in third countries, and now we have to protect ourselves, protect ourselves and try to get back that Croatian people and people who went outside to come back. If we liberalize at that speed of light, the price of work will come to the bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26315	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26316	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull. And we don't have much opportunity to correct the EU directives by signing an access contract and by implementing the directives, these are orders. So we order that we transpose EU legislation into our legislation. ... are recommendations and it is something to talk about, but the directive is a directive and it must be applied to our legislation. But there is still a matter of knowledge, opportunities and ways to implement the directive, is this directive leaving the possibility for EU countries to adapt their labour market to the directive, but also to make certain anchors not to open the labour market for third-country workers. They are not EU workers here. Romania and Bulgaria and Poljak and the Czech Republic can also come to Croatia to come here and get a job as well as our worker, so we are very clear here. But this is about third-country workers who should stop employers from exploiting the workforce. I note that even at the time of the HDZ government's working permits either between five and ten thousand, during the time of the SDP government only with two thousand dropped to a thousand. Here again last year or this year, so for this year we have seven thousand work permits, probably with a tendency to further increase, and there's the wisdom of the government, that for those jobs where we don't have our labour force, we have to have it because employers have to work but it doesn't have to be philosophical. And in such a way as the directive was implemented in this law, we open the labour market to import cheap labour, leading to an even greater exodus of young people from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26317	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26318	Thank you, colleague Mrsic, for the replica. So as I said now is exploiting resources both economic, natural and human potentials, which is the worst, human resource is the most valuable. This is the fact that it happens in Croatia, human resources and potentials that are capable of bringing new value to Croatia. They went to third countries for reasons like I said because of directives or orders. And I said that 25 years have passed since, we've celebrated since international recognition. The Republic of Croatia, however, would now be an unfortunate... EU order, so that we are a republic where we should be free, we have lost part of sovereignty and the people have decided by a non-half majority rather than decided on a referendum that was counter-constitutional to enter the EU in this way. That's a fact, in the last year, the Constitution has been changed, no matter how it was voted, it's the fact that it's reduced below 50% one vote and let's mention what you said people are leaving, of course and cheap power is coming. The problem isn't that a split squire or some squire fell apart, welders, workers, professional people went to other countries. Now I don't know what kind of energy to give us back the boot, we can't because we lost those people, that's the problem. We now have a huge problem in these human potentials that other countries draw for us but it is because of politics, because of Croatian policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26319	Thank you very much to dear colleague Mir Bulje for this answer. On behalf of the promoter, state secretary Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26320	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to thank everyone for this constructive debate. It's very difficult to look back at all the prominent things. Questions relating to the Law on Croatian Citizenship and the Law on residence would be left for another debate. However, I do have a need to look back on things that are repeatedly highlighted in this debate, which are simply not true, which is that the amendments to this law wanted to push through something that is not in the spirit of European laws or good practice of European states, which is about criminalising solidarity. The first thing to do is to distinguish between legal and illegal migration. So this provision applies only to those foreigners who have entered, resided or passed through this country as such. For legal migrants there is a Law on International Protection, so asylum seekers have all the rights and they are taken care of. Regarding this provision, help is forbidden, or what is now being introduced, and an attempt to help is also prohibited. It is important to note that there is a directive on assistance that punishes aid unfortunately. So that frame is ours. Helping is punished, and it must also be punished for trying to help. So that part we don't have to, that part we can't influence. The European Commission's remarks are precisely why we have received, and that is to try to punish, the attempt to assist is not punishable. So it's not about something we wanted to get under the grain. So what we are in these defined frameworks that we have, and that is that helping or trying to help, must be punished is this article that we have now collegeed, and that is what is considered to be a definition of what is not thought of by helping, and that is exactly aiding done for humanitarian reasons. So no one can say that they will punish the person who gives the migrant a glass of water, feed him, secure his accommodations, take him to the doctor. And if we had interpreted this law that way, the entire activity of this country during the migrant crisis would have been subject to some kind of punishment. So that's out of the question. Of course, I think it's clear to everyone that these are humanitarian reasons. For those people who do not understand it, we have then been in parentheses and for these provisions explained what is considered humanitarian reasons. And that, too, to be clear, these reasons are not made up by the Ministry of the Interior but by the recommendations of the Human Rights Agency. So we can't talk about criminalising solidarity. What is more, we are still calling for decriminalization of aid according to special regulations. There are a number of other regulations under which helping is not a criminal offence. Regarding the part relating to the labour market, it is important to say if that is not clear, so the labour market is not only the Republic of Croatia but rather the labour market within the EU where we know there is freedom of movement and freedom of service. The provisions relating to the working legislation of foreigners therefore relate to workers, third-country nationals. As regards the allegations of Mr. Mrsic's esteemed representative that this law is the product of this government and its shameful policies, I really believe it is necessary to note that this law is a product of the government to which the honourable representative was a member. The foreign law came into force in 1.1.2012 when you were head of the Ministry of Labour. If you really wanted to spend all this stuff you're up for right now, you had time to do it. Regarding your suggestion that working-legal matter should not be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior I fully support this proposal and I can tell you that with the Minister of Labour it is in principle agreed that this matter should be singled out and returned to the Ministry of Labour in which it belongs naturally. So as far as that goes, that part will be regulated to a new one. It is incorrect to assume that seasonal activities are too wide or that they are not defined anywhere. They are specifically defined in Article 2 paragraph 13 of this proposal for the laws of agriculture, forestry, tourism and hospitality. It is also an incorrect assumption that the Croatian labour market is not being protected, it is being protected through quotas that are determined according to the state of the labour market, i.e. taking care of the number of unemployed Croatian citizens, but also taking care of the Croatian labour market, which includes employers taking care of their needs. If these needs cannot be met with Croatian workers, it is necessary to help them find these workers among foreign citizens. The claim that seasonal workers are not protected is incorrect because Article 25 of this proposal prescribes how these rights are protected, so that they are subject to minimum wage provisions and all other working conditions as applied to Croatian workers. And about that statement of yours, it can determine the odds of what that means? Well, that means that the government doesn't have to, and it doesn't have to in those situations when it estimates that there are enough seasonal workers in our labour market, then it won't bring a quota, and foreign seasonal workers won't be able to get a job. In conclusion, I would like to point out that these changes really exceed the scope of what we call amending the law and that because of the breadth of the topic it regulates has become difficult to apply and is not the best possible product. This government is aware of these facts and for this reason a working group has been formed to develop a new law that will be more clearly structured and divided into three separate units, which are the whole of labour law, citizens of EU Member States and foreigners, or non-EU citizens, and should be more applicable as such. However, given the procedures in place for the expiry of the deadline for harmonisation with the EU acquis, we believe that for the Republic of Croatia, this law has been approved to enter into force and that it is parallel to making a new, or better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26321	I thank the secretary of state, Mrs. Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26322	Dear Madam Secretary of State, I heard your name Lydia, I kind of skipped his last name, I couldn't understand him. I wanted to say, I listened with the attention of your lecture and I have to say that I liked your approach and that I liked it when you mentioned the words solidarity and helping to carry out the criminal act of illegal crossing the state border. You see when it is helped without compensation, without personal gain, illegal crossing of third-country nationals through Croatia, then it is considered that it should not be punished, that it should be human. But when I personally and my colleagues from the Living Wall helped without compensation, i.e. they were solidarity with families in Croatia who were left without a roof over their heads, driven into the street, and even in these winter conditions there would be one operation 31.1. on Blackbeard 105 then from the Ministry of Interior no one would come and say these people helped, they were solid. There won't be a human rights fighter who will tell you where these people will live. There will be no constitutional experts who will say that the home should be protected, that the family should be protected, etc. etc. I want to tell you that this Act on Foreigners is about a man who helps in illegal, in violation of the law he is being Abbolized, and we see today who are helping, who are solidaritying with families who remain on the street this winter they are still being punished, they are being brought to courts and for them this power as well as Brussels has no mercy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26323	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. The following came to the line from distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26324	Thank you very much, dear secretary of state. Yes, we have passed the law in 2015 and there is a directive on assistance, and I note, however, that the directive gives minimum standards that are implemented in legislation and that what you are doing with criminalisation of solidarity has nothing to do with the directive but has to do with your interpretation of how to punish people who are helping those who are in need. Therefore, you have many more NGOs, as well as the public who have understood it in a way that is understood. So we've given an amendment where we think it's better and easier to solve it cleaner than this way. Therefore, I hope that you will respect this and when the law finally comes that we will have a more transparent and better law. You have also made it clear that the Ministry of Labour and Pension System did not participate in the work because it will be singled out in a special part and that we will finally implement these three directives. Seasonal work, what you stated to be defined is not defined. It is listed as considered seasonal work, but is not defined how many days a year, which period, where and what. It's not on the other hand when you say that the government can bring quotas, instead of the government having to bring quotas, and the quota is that the government will bring a zero quota that's the same quota. Therefore, if you look at the quotas that have been passed in the Croatian governments for certain parts, the individual occupation was a zero quota. So you didn't define, you didn't protect the labour market and you didn't answer my very simple question. You did a calculation of how many seasons, in which time do you have that data, so let me know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26325	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic. Replica response, state secretary Lidija Pelivan Stipetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26326	So, regarding these re-applications to the directive, I still don't understand which part of you don't understand with all due respect because helping foreigners has been banned so far. And despite what has been banned so far in this entire migrant wave, in which over 650 thousand people have passed through Croatia, but nobody has been punished. You know for a fact that the Ministry of the Interior has made huge efforts to take care of all these people. So that part remains unchanged but because of the remarks we received because this aid attempt was not punished we and that attempt had to be included in the law. So that's the part we don't have as much influence on as you might think is different. With regard to quotas, what I mentioned or forgot to mention is that quotas are, for example, fixed for 15 seasonal workers for this year. It means 15 cedars of fruit and vines for the whole 2017. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26327	Dear fellow Mrsic, please, you have had the opportunity to allow the secretary of state to respond to your replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26328	As you know, the labour market is very flexible and needs for a worker or are subject to changes from month to month. So simulations can be very difficult to work on, I don't know how far ahead. So annual quotas like each year when they are defined by the Ministry of Labour with representatives of all ministries, employers and trade unions define the real needs of seasonal workers, so in accordance with the state of the market, and we can't, I don't think it would be appropriate to do simulations in a few years in advance. And regarding the allegations that the Ministry of Labour did not participate in the implementations, these directives were involved, only that the MUP is the holder of this law so that it is responsible for the final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26329	I would like to thank Honorable Secretary of State Lidija Pelivan Stipetic for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26330	Thank you. I'm joining my colleague Pernar with praise for his approach, but I'm going to say a few things that I haven't been fully satisfied with in your approach. You've responded quite in detail to the comment on the debate except for the two that are most interesting to me. One is a comment by my colleague Zekankovic on life partners, and the second is that the two biggest parliamentary clubs to be directed to the next reading, now we want to interpret the third, the other is no longer important, so it would make it easier for us to vote that we know the government's position, if you have the power to state the government's position on the second proposal. And as for my colleague Zekanovic and his remarks, I was wrong to say it is not 40 thousand kuna but ten thousand euros. So BiH citizen sued the Republic of Croatia for human rights because according to the 2011 Foreign Law, the Sisak police refused to apply for permission to stay in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of family reunions wanted to join her partner in Croatia in 2011, so she had not yet talked about the partnership at all as an opportunity. The police claimed that its request did not meet the requirements of the Foreign Law, then they complained to the MUP who refused the appeal, so the Administrative Court in Zagreb rejected the appeal or administrative dispute, and then the Constitutional Court rejected the constitutional suit, so five institutions in Croatia before the adoption of the Life Partnership Act refused the request and the European Court of Human Rights accepted the request. He says that Article 14 of the prohibition of discrimination, Article 8. The Convention on Human Rights and Croatia had to pay 10 euros in compensation and 5,690 euros in court costs, so this is just what they have put into law is just the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling. And without it being written in the law, we'd have to act on it, so it's not good to deal with horns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26331	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. You replicate the secretary of state, not Mr. Zekanovic, and explain later when the session is over. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26332	Well, I'd only like to make a brief statement about the government's position. This government has referred this law to emergency procedures and as such remains at this time. However, it is evident from what is stated that the law will still go into a longer discussion during which we can also look back on your question. In short, I would like to point out that it is not about redefining the concept of family, but only extends the category of persons who have the right to stay, which deals with this law. So, the intensity of this law is not to redefine the concept of family, but in some things we need to comply with national legislation and also with the latest case law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26333	I would like to thank Honorable Secretary of State Lidija Pelivan Stipetic for his reply. This is what we've exhausted the debate. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the representatives of State Secretary Lidija Pelivan Stipetic for these explanations and answers. We continue the meeting tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. on the agenda Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held during 2016. I thank you all for participating in the debate and for a pleasant rest of the day. Cheers! Session interrupted at 18.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26334	The next item is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 59. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The HDZ representative club proposed to the Assembly the following conclusion: 1. On the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z.E. the number 59 was held in the first reading. 1. All objections and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Does the proposaler's representative want to show himself about the proposed conclusion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26335	A proposal is being accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-17-0.u26336	Thank you. Please get involved and let's vote on the proposed conclusion. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 121 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against have reached a conclusion in the text of the motion. The following is concerning the proposed conclusion by the SDP Representatives' Club to vote without substance since we adopted the previous conclusion. Dear colleagues, we continue our work with the agenda point, MP Alexic.
