ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38548	I'm sorry, then I'll turn the Rules of Procedure. Give me the break bat and you'll have to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38549	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? I don't understand. What do you want? ... Well, on a break, you were the President of Parliament, so you probably know that you need to explain the pause. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll give it to you but I need to know the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38550	Chairman, as soon as I answer the word, then you should ask what I'm looking for, so I'll say I'm looking for a break. I am looking for a break on the current political situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38551	My colleague Sincic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38552	President of the Parliament, I'm looking for a break for the same reasons for the current political situation of ten minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38553	Okay. Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38554	The SDP representative club does not have a replica, but is also looking for a break for reasons that colleagues listed before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38555	You're a good layman of the Rules of Procedure, so I expected you to do everything right. Any more requests for a break? If not, I declare a ten-minute break. We'll continue at 9.50. It's 9:00.45. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The first answered for a word on behalf of MOST, respected colleague Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38557	Dear citizens, I've been hearing more than a month about the need for famous stability. I listen to the mantra, I listen to lies, I listen to excuses to hide crime. I'm listening to excuses that the policies that the apostles of Croatia have spent the last 20 years could continue. And you just lost control a year and a half ago for the first time. As a result, the Croatian public has been able to witness the bottom of morale for the last month and a half, unethical, carefree for the common good. It all came out but not because they wanted to, but because we drove them out into the clear, out of sight. Then you could see how politics has worked behind the curtain for the past 20 years. And every excuse is a ridiculous, dear parliamentary advocate, every excuse offends common sense. You won't be able to wash each other off for hundreds of years to pour clear Jane's waterfalls on you. Today, HDZ is normal to go to coalition with the HNS, the same and... The people who initiated the impeachment of ministers who were here by HDZ Andrej Plenkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today it's normal for them to sit in the same room, work together with the same ones who wanted to tear them down, together. Those who today proclaimed new partners "Titanic Vlad" and those who called these incompetent and who turned into a black Croatian economy. I'll only ask myself one thing where your missing values are written to you in the statutes of dear HDZ. Where did the need to continue running the Ministry of Education disappear? Or maybe you've agreed with the CNS that according to your valuable principles, they'll run those ministries. The easiest are the values you swear on. And it's all normal, it's all for Croatia, it's all for pain, together. If Croatia could talk, she'd scream if you weren't helping her anymore. Dear citizens, it may be painful to open your eyes after all this time, but the world won't be better if you pretend this is happening in some parallel reality. The intentional autism to ease your pain will not make your environment better, fairer, this is the state of all of you. I won't ask yours if you're ashamed. That word in my book doesn't exist in your dictionary, nor can you recognize that feeling when you feel some pain that you don't know how to define, so blame someone else. It's understandable to me because after everything you had to swallow to sit in those chairs, something had to fall off, cheek. So I won't ask if you're ashamed, I'll ask the citizens if they're ashamed. Dear citizens, are you feeling betrayed? Politics is what we do, the way we choose. If we choose prostitutes in the election, then politics will be a prostitute. If we choose to be fair, then politics will be fair. She'll be the way we choose. But what does our choice say? Who are we if we choose political prostitutes? And that's what the citizens of Croatia need to ask themselves today. And today they finally need to draw the line. We're not all the same. There are honest and there are prostitutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38558	Second debate on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38559	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, colleagues and colleagues, citizens who listen to today's debate, today will probably be a very long day, but first of all, I want to say that this is a black day, a black day for Croatian politics, for the Croatian Parliament, for the Croatian Government. The day when clientalism won, when political corruption won, the day of the general interest being trampled, the day when a government that did not get enough voters in the elections will probably be voted on. We're testifying here to one conversion, running from camp to camp. So let those who have so easily changed camp for a few ministries ask themselves. Let them ask themselves, all those voters who have convinced them for so many years to vote for them, that they are the right choice, so they in the House will tell HDZ what to do, that they will represent the interests of their voters, that they will speak, that they will represent. How's he gonna look into their eyes now? How will they be re-elected? Probably never will again. Probably never will again. And let the hard Croatian land be for example for the rest of them. They don't deserve to be re-elected. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian citizens are disappointed in politics, are disappointed in the parliament, are disappointed in democracy, are disappointed in democracy, in the electoral system. That's why 50 votes, if that's how much. Because they've been cheated so many times, cheated, because they've given a mandate to their people. So, do some people here even know what it means to be a representative? It means representing something, someone, here in Parliament. We don't have 4 million chairs in Parliament so everyone can represent themselves, we don't have democracy. So each of us carries, someone 200, someone 1,000, someone 10,000, someone and more souls behind you, dragging people, sent here to speak on their behalf as I said at the beginning, to speak blue. And then what? Then he says red. They didn't send us all for this, and let the one whom the voters sent for what they sent him, where they sent him for that which they will raise up their hand this day. I don't consider it so controversial to be some ideological, ideological conflict of liberals and so on. It's a much less controversial part of this new government that's coming to us. The slow part is that the mandates that passed on to the back of the opposition would never have crossed themselves. So the citizens voted for one thing, they're going to get a whole other thing and it's going to be a long time, apparently another three years. Total fraud, total fraud. So what now? We are in vain trying to restore trust in the electoral system, restore confidence in democracy. If I said I wouldn't, then I wouldn't, if I said I'd go, I don't know, to the dissections, I did. We try hard for nothing, and then they come to you like this. What are they doing to you? They're tearing it all down. And now what will the citizens say, voters? They'll say they're all the same. There's nothing they can do about it. Black Day for the Croatian Parliament, Black Day for the Croatian People. We're going back a few years, and everything that's been achieved over the past few years has been seriously ruined because of what we've seen. Who was talking about Titanic Vlad, lex Agrokor, destroyed Barisic, Maric? Obviously from today, sir, let them apologize to Mr. Maric, there will be no such badness, yet you are not connected, you did not work there, everything is fine, everything will be fine. And the person who cooked it all up in secret, behind his back, also worked for his party, Mr. Vrdoljak, today didn't show up here. There are indications that the DORH also had an impact on the formation of this parliamentary majority, some would end up in prison, or charges would have been brought against them if they hadn't raised their hand as they should at some point. Nothing new in Croatian politics, the DORH is still corrupt, instrumented, is one of the tools, you know who. I can say I'm extremely sad, but I'm kind of shocked. Because all because before me Mr. Petrov spoke, and he is not far from betraying the voter of this CNS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38560	Thank you. The next club is the club representative of SDP and distinguished colleague Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38561	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is clear what this is all about. The HDZ-HNS coalition's imperative is not the stability of the state and the interest of citizens as they try to show themselves. It is clear to all of us that this is a classic store, a struggle for chairs and a betrayal of voters. The CNS violated the coalition agreement and deceived citizens who trusted them on the National Coalition list. There's a contract, I remind you, the 9th term of HNS owes the coalition to the National and that it was on the list with the SDP. Whoever's willing to break the contract he signed, you have to ask yourself how they're going to apply by breaking contracts when they're going to sign public money contracts. About the money of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry for the honorable people in HNS who didn't support the sale of the party to HDZ. They sell the parties, at least at the cost of their own exclusion. Some in the HNS have sold the entire party for a price of 2 ministerial posts and trampled all their principles. HNS was created by honorable men and killed by those whose policy is bagging. Today it is more than clear that Vrdoljak and Plenkovic deceived the entire time of the Croatian public. Vrdoljak and Plenkovic played a heated fight here in the Croatian Parliament, Vrdoljak and Plenkovic were dealing under the table, trading and changing different private interests, and it is clear at the moment. What kind of message is this to the citizens? Is this credible what HDZ was talking about? How many times has Vrdoljak been determined not to HDZ, how many times? This coalition, from everything that is visible, this coalition is built on lies, on trade, is opposed to fundamental world-wide and programming principles, this coalition has no future. This coalition has no legitimacy. But Croatia deserves to have a future. Croatia deserves better. Croatia has better and Croatia will only go better when Croatia's policy becomes fairer, only when labour and honesty provisions are applied in politics, not at all costs, private interests at all costs and political trade at all costs. And this is the fundamental difference between the ones which Croatia wants well and those that only the government wants in Croatia. On the one hand, we have power at all costs, interests at all costs, and on the other hand we have Croatia that has no price and no face that has no price. Therefore, we cannot nor will we participate in supporting such a political trade that is unmarked in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38597	Dear President, on behalf of the SDSS Club for statements by one of our colleagues who are justified in the prosecution of members of the national minorities, I request a five-minute recess.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38598	We agreed to continue this immediately without delay to speak to a colleague of the Pupovac. Yeah, sure. About what. [[Intruder Pernar: I'm also looking for a break.]] Here you go, pal. Here you go, buddy Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38599	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. National minority representatives in the Croatian Parliament since they exist as an institute, and since the beginning of this country, have tried to contribute to tolerance, seek to contribute to its improvement, seek to contribute to political culture and to contribute to what each country needs, and what has been missing for several years since practically 2013 and this is political stability and political tolerance. And we've had this in some periods and we've witnessed in the past months that the re-name of national minorities' representatives and national minorities is being taken as a disqualification tool, for dispersion and for the spread of hate. What we have heard today in truth in a completely unconsistent speech from our colleague Pernar, about the fact that members of national minorities whose number has been reduced since 41 in Croatia, by over a million and something, when the total number is summed up, because they were separatists. And unseen and outrageous, colleagues and colleagues, we all know that in some cultures separatism is a normal phenomenon that is tolerated. And we all know that from the beginning of the 20th century, from Wilson's principles that allowed many countries to come into existence and become without separatism, there would be no such thing. But it doesn't give anyone the right, to fight for their freedom, for their national idea, to give no one the right to banish or exterminate other nations, and for 20 centuries it has been a century full of such experiences. Even in the space of the former Yugoslavia. Some nations who are members of national minorities have experienced this bitterly. We in Croatia all, both Croats and Serbs and Italians have experienced this bitterly. I won't say who here with greater bitterness because it wouldn't be correct. Because now we find ourselves in a situation where we create new relationships and face the past that we carry as a burden. And are we still going to be in this situation today, when we're trying to do something that can help this country to have what it looks like in the next three years? To start dealing with what are the real issues of these citizens and these countries and to help political parties in need of political consolidation to consolidate and stop political conflicts. Will the whole thing now come to light with members of the national minorities? That's what it looked like. Then my colleague Pernar wasn't aware, but we who are representatives of the national minorities are enough to look at the forums below the news that will take place now after what I'm saying and after what you've been saying. So you'll see an escalation of hatred, and you'll see the assumptions that we should be fighting for the rights of the people we represent. Why are we careful of every whim to change power. We representatives of national minorities. Well, because we know it can cause relationships that can be very dangerous and risky, not because That we are guests, but because we know that it is necessary to treat relations in a country like ours with caution. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38600	Thank you very much. Here you go, pal Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38601	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that I have nothing against any minority and that if you go online, to forums, to the comments of articles, etc., you will see that people tend to call me a Serb and a Chetnik, etc. And they do it because there's no hate in my heart for anyone. But what is it? The issue is that the government, which HDZ agrees with with the help of minorities, is not in Croatia's interest and does not represent the democratic will of its citizens, thus neither the minority. What hurts the minorities is that the government they support means HDZ with Prime Minister Plenkovic doesn't mind the panel "For Home Ready" in Jasenovac, and the minority of the government that the panel "For Home Ready" does not mind supporting. If I were a representative of the Serb national minority, I would tell the HDZ gentlemen I'm not greedy I'm not looking for five ministries, but please remove that plate from Jasenovac, that's what I would say and have a spine for it. Unfortunately, representatives of the Serb national minority cross the panel in Jasenovac, they do not mind. Why don't you tell HDZ gentlemen before you vote for the government to move that board, why don't you say so? Well, you see. And then he transferred to me and so they didn't leave the Parliament when Plenkovic said let the panel "For Home Ready" stay, then they didn't leave the Parliament. But when Pernar told them gentlemen what you support, why do you participate in it, then the offended are gone. It is a sad fact that minorities in Croatia unfortunately profit from their representatives. And if someone questions them that they are personally well with these minority representatives, and what minorities together with most fail, then he's an extremist, then she has something against the minority, etc. But here, I will honestly say, under the phrase "For Home Ready" in World War II, people in Jasenovac and me were killed personally as a person who is against fascism would not be acceptable to be in government, being part of a government that is normal, would not. Because in Jasenovac he was from my grandfather, my uncle Ivan Pernar, who was shot in the National Assembly with Stjepan Radic and put the Ustashas in Jasenovac because he thought politically differently from them, in the same way that I now think differently from HDZ, in the same way Ivan Pernar 1941, the second, third, fourth, thought differently from the Ustasha regime, only now the situation is such that the HDZ party who dared would be told if one of the Croatian parties were responsible for the disappearance of the Serbian people from Croatia is HDZ. I don't see any other party having such a policy against Serbs as HDZ. You have British transcripts to make Serbs disappear, to be given such blows to disappear, said the founder and president of the HDZ. But unfortunately with HDZ who is the successor of this Tudjman HDZ which is his panel in Jasenovac no problem, and what can I say? And then will Pernar's grandma's horn, Pernar's extremist, Pernar's got something against minorities, though he doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u38602	Okay. We end up as we announced, the break is until 1900 hours, during which time committees will be held and then at 1900 we vote on new ministers. Thank you very much. It's 3:55 p.m. Now we're going to go to 4. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report so I would ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Žarko Tušek, to submit the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39493	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 21st session held on 7 June 2017 the written request of MP Darko Milinović of 25 May 2017 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate on hold for the conduct of the mayor of Lika-Senj County which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(2) The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Marijan Kustic as deputy representative of Darko Milinovic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of Darko Milinovic's parliamentary mandate and the conditions for the start of his deputy, Marijan Kustic,'s post office. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Law on election of legislators in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposed, with 5 votes for the Croatian Parliament, a decision on the stay of the representative's mandate and the start of acting as deputy representative on 25 May 2017, the rest of MP Darko Milinović's term of office begins. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as Deputy Representative Marijan Kustic on the day when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the exchange institutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39494	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and open the debate. If no one answers, I will conclude the debate and put the proposal to the vote. I find that this proposal has passed with 88 votes, unanimously. Please make another decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39495	Thank you. The mandate-immunity commission9 of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 22nd session held on 7 June 2017 the written request of Representative Ivan Anusic of 9 June 2017 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate on hold for the conduct of the office of the mayor of Osijek-Baranja County which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community pursuant to Article 42(2) The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Domagoj Mikulić as deputy representative Ivan Anusic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of Ivan Anusic's representative mandate as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy, Domagoj Mikulic. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 5 votes to propose a decision on the stay of the representative's mandate and the start of acting as deputy representative on 9 June 2017 begins the rest of MP Ivan Anusic's term of office. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as Deputy Representative Domagoj Mikulić on the day when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the exchange institutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39496	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and I have a debate. I am finalising the debate and voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I find that the decision was unanimously taken, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, with 100 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39497	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 22nd session held on 9 June 2017 the written request of Agent Ivan Vrdoljak, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament, to base Article 14. The law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament puts the parliamentary mandate on hold, with the date of 9 June 2017. Ivan Vrdoljak, elected representative of the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament as candidate on the list of the Social Democratic Party of the Croatian SDP, Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats HNS, Croatian Peasants' Party HSS, Croatian Party of Retired HSU, in the fourth constituency, and the Croatian People's Party is the Liberal Democrats of the HNS, in accordance with Article 42(3). The law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Stjepan Curaj as deputy representative. The Commission has established that the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Ivan Vrdoljak have been met by law, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of the deputy representative, representative of Stjepan Curaj. Following the above, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, based on Articles 14, 11, and 42, of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously with 5 votes in favour, proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the start of the term of office of representative and the start of acting as deputy representative, on 9 June 2017, the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Ivan Vrdoljak begins. Mr Stjepan Curaj's representative's office as deputy representative in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act when the Parliament determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39498	I thank you and open the debate. We've got a couple of MPs and a club on file. First, therefore, on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Bridge of Independent Lists of counterparts, Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39499	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. You know you're doing something good, when Grmoya, for the second time in three days, has to lie about the HDZ and HNS deal. Hi, Nikola, hi, my Ivan, hi, my Ivan. This is the status of Ivan Vrdoljak, who, today, is leaving the Croatian Parliament, has been saying all along that I am lying about the coalition of HDZ and HNS, and as someone has noticed well today, it is here in the Croatian Parliament between the diameters of Andrej Plenkovic and Ivan Vrdoljak was carved, from the second month of the negotiations between HDZ and HNS under the table. I've been warning about it the whole time, before these events, I knew that the pressure on Representative Sauch and that kind of thin majority for the new President of the Parliament were buying time until after the elections, so that this non-discipline coalition would be concluded. I was talking about Milan Brkic and Ivan Vrdoljak, Josip Jurčević and the team that pushed the thermal power plant on the coal, the plates we fought against, those are interests that protect themselves, these are not the interests of Croatia, this is not the story of stability, it is not a story for the benefit of citizens, it is a story of protection of interest. And that's the only purpose of this coalition, I was talking about it means the HDZ voters attacked the bridge, why the HNS personnel, in HEP, didn't change, here's dear HDZ voters why they didn't change. We were the ones who insisted on moving the HNS personnel. But those personnel were supposed to be protected because they were counting on HNS. And you know who changed the HNS decision? So one decision was made at the presidency, then changed, and even these people from the field who called should protect those positions, and that was all the time being counted on by Prime Minister Plenkovic. He counted on every hand in this House, remember Representative Salapic, he sat there illegally, but he needed his hand. Every hand was important, so that the bridge would be kicked out of the game, because we can't steal, we can't hack into HEP, we can't privatize HEP, we can't do all these criminal acts that they intend to do, and one good part of the HNS, unfortunately, because in time it became a clienteleist party that depends on the positions and that's what the prime minister counted on. And said colleague Sincic one good thing here even though he always likes to attack us, I'll be constructive and I'll always praise what's good. This is what I'm convinced of, and I'm convinced of the pressure of the DORH, first the representative of the Sauch, and then the representative of the Vrdoljak. Remember Ivan Vrdoljak's interview that Bozo Petrov is working on his head, using a repressive apparatus, not Bozo Petrov used a repressive apparatus, but the repressive apparatus finally had his hands open. They won't have them anymore, the head of the MUP comes former head of the office of Stjepan Mesic, now they won't, the Vlaho called you, you know what the HDZ called you? That you're a JNA officer. You were never an officer of JNA, but you were a Croatian defender unlike Bozinović, and now a man comes from these deep structures, from these deep structures of the former state, they come to the head of the Ministry of the Interior and these are the structures that we started to expose, first by the law on archives and you will see, they will come here to this Assembly for the new law of the Ministry of Culture that will go towards closing those archives. That's the team. Stjepan Mesic was not solved by HDZ, we solved it, and they were against it, that's the team. It's this team that only crossed the 1990s into HDZ to keep their positions, feared scenarios in some post-Communist countries that happened and stayed here. And we started this process. You know what the most important lustration is? The economic lustration because all these communist directors in us have become the great masters of Ivica Todorovic and beyond, from this Tedeschi, Miro against whom you have filed a criminal report, we have fought against them and we will fight further, and you will continue to guard them. But you've never, ever had a team of people who can't be bought here in the Croatian Parliament and who will press you hard and expose you, be sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39500	Meanwhile, another club appeared, which is the Living Wall and SNAGA's club and distinguished counterpart Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39501	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We are here today discussing allegedly putting a mandate on hold, and we are actually discussing a classic escape, a cowardly escape from our own conscience. We have a case of a representative who up until three, four days ago, a week tops, spoke all the opposite of what he stands for today. We have an agent who claimed in the paper that those who attack MP Vesna Pusic are Ustashaid fascists, and today with these same alleged Ustasha fascists, the Vrdoljak representative is co-ordinating. If he thought it was morally right, why didn't he at least come here, look us in the eye and say I believe it, and now I'm leaving. What would happen so important that MP Vrdoljak put his term in office on Monday? Nothing would have happened. But he, a colleague of Batinić, burns his conscience because he cheated on his constituents, 131,000 citizens of the city itself, gave the vote to Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritas, who fought a heroic battle for a better Croatia, and this same president of her party knocked her out of the campaign and knocked her out and will now throw her out of the party. Is it not an unremembered disgrace? I understand him that he can't be here today because he'd have to look people in the eye. For that, after all that he's done, you really need to have a very, very fat cheek. And what my colleague Sincic mentioned and confirmed by the representative of the Grmoi, it is a public secret that the DORH was again involved in this assembly of the parliamentary majority. I personally, who had nothing to do with the coalition, received dozens of messages that all the elements were used against Mr. Vrdoljak, which threatened him with what he had been blackmailed, what he had been promised. I don't know, ever since I visited Qatar, I don't even know what was in that Qatar, and from some events in Tuhelian spas, what I know was there, I didn't want to study it that much, but a whole series of these indications indicate what the people say, where there's smoke, there's fire. Which is true, we'll probably find out in the months to come. It is said that Mr. Vrdoljak is promised a position in one of the public companies, allegedly being the CEO of JANAF or I don't know, his company will deal with state institutions. Whatever the reasons at the end of what was finally revealed is clear only one thing, that this coalition that Mr. Vrdoljak agreed to did not agree with his free will but was created under pressure. And this coalition is essentially one betrayal of voters, but first of all the HNS voters and first of all HDZ voters. We could, of course, like the opposition now and say it's okay, happiness in the accident is at least that the HNS signed his political death and that we'll never see them in this House again. We could liquefy and say that Prime Minister Plenkovic has managed to lose the next election because one good part of HDZ voters will now resort to another so-called. Right options. However, the biggest loser of all Croatian people, Croatian voters. Read Mr Batinić, you have any portal in the Republic of Croatia, readers' comments, your members' comments. Of the 100 comments 99 is against you. Find two good comments and then show them to me later, please, to see who they are. I didn't see them. HNS voters don't want to co-ordinate with HDZ. If HDZ voters do not submit to any party in the Croatian Parliament, they do not submit to the CNS. And what message are you sending us? You're sending us a message like this. It doesn't matter what the programs are, it doesn't matter what pre-election promises are, it doesn't matter what voters, it doesn't matter what the voters want, it doesn't matter what the values of the courts are, it's important to get the chairs, it's important to get the money. Miss or Madam, I don't know what Mary Puh's name was, seven, eight months ago, she was adoring the posters of Andrej Plenkovic, she was adorning them, and therefore she was reported to the state's attorney and the Ethics Commission and the Committee for Conflict of Interest. Is that gonna make those posters beautiful again? Will he now be adorning the posters of Vesna Pusic? Is this the return of trust in the institutions you've been sworn in all along? Will Croatian citizens trust you again after you have done this? So the message that you're sending us today is this replacement and escape of Vrdoljak MPs like a bird racing in that cartoon: "It's more worth political trade than all human values. The government created in political trade will last longer than the government created on consistent party programmes." And that shows, among other things, what kind of people our prime minister is surrounded by. It shows that an honest man with a government like that doesn't want to be dealt with. Just a sold soul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39502	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. The first debate is the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39503	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the people are watching us. A key question arises about the escape of Ivan Vrdoljak and the fact that this, that the masks fell four and a half months ago, was spoken of by Nikola Grmoy and it is clear. I'm asking the HNS members, which my Sinjanin would now say to whom they're calling, Ante Mika Tripalo. A man we can get along with or disagree with but he ran Croatian Spring, but he awakened national consciousness in difficult times. He'd say what he said in '91. All those who betrayed him in '71, who didn't answer him and kissed him before, were invited to help them. When he came to Sinj, those people weren't answering him. He would say the same thing today. The same people, the same structure, the exact same structure, and indeed Andrej Plenkovic in 2011, this is a message and members of HDZ, a people who... He chose to enter the HNS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the children of Stipe Mesic, such as Bozinovic, are now placed in key places. Mr Bozinovic said that the people knew he was a adviser to Stipe Mesic, at a time when he said the great ideologist of HDZ, now and leaders, Vladimir Seks, when the Croatian state was the most robbed, when Croatian sons were being persecuted to court European officials, when he said the words "location, arrest, prosecute and condemn". I may have changed my words, but really what would I say, now these people like my Sinjan Ante Mika Tripalo? Are you going to mention him more? We must not allow Croatia to become a PPD. No wind parks owned by strangers. We must not allow our sea and beaches, our wealth and resources to become in the hands of foreigners and political elites in concessions like the Golden Bol. This must serve the purpose of a people who emigrate and flee. Plenkovic deceived the people, voters, so I'm putting people who voted for HDZ, did they vote for this one Plenkovic – Vrdoljakov and Mr. Pupovac HDZ? Was that their choice? Yes, I insisted that the office be abolished to the president, former President of the Republic of Stipi Mesic but was revived by Andrej Plenkovic with the same structures, the same people in the form as I told Mr Bozinovic, his advisor who has now received the portfolio of the interior ministry. And Cvitane, I call on Cvittan to deal with the criminal application I made 21.4. against Mr. Vujčić's CNB, his governors, vice governors and deputies for those 10 billion kuna bonds without cover that threatened the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia and a direct blow to monetary policy. That's not what we're talking about. I call on Cvitan to do what I have reported 10 times, four times so far, five times, the disappearance of money to defend the Cetitian region, in '91, when the bare-arms stopped in Vrlica defending our people and the money was in their pockets and they are now, managing the Republic. Folks, if the Turkish Empire came, if they occupied us, there would be characters with sultans who got 200, 300, 400 votes, as Mr. Jandrokovic also, peeking behind them, remember well. Bio Sanader, was Karamarko, was Jadranka Kosor, was Andrej Plenkovic or was a sultan or was a emperor or was a state of Tajistan or ISIL, always these same people would sell you for Judas's pucks. I call in my Sinj, I call, if they come to the campaign then the solemn committee, I am a believer and I am not ashamed of it, in front of the churches, a solemn welcome to these people. As the only ones they have the right to appeal to faith, the nation, are the only ones who defend interests. People, Croatian, any vote for HNS or HDZ. What do you say now, Dr. McNally? Franjo Tudjman told Stipe Mesic that people run his party? What would Ante Mika Tripalo say now? We can love them more, we can love them less, but these were the moral verticals of political discourse and governance of the Croatian state. The key message is that this is not how the state is run, that parliament and parliamentary deputies cannot be humiliated, and only the will of voters, the run from one coalition for which the people voted, the People's Coalition in the second camp, and that half of the club, speaks of an eclutant example of pressure and an eclative example of the preservation of the chair. And that is why it is evident that Ivan Vrdoljak has resigned today. Today. Who bothered him today to be in the Parliament and discuss this subject? The topic when he spoke before the election, during the entire election, there was no way he could co-ordinate with HDZ, and everything was already agreed in advance. That Mr. Jandrokovic knows very well. That everything was agreed in advance. If you hadn't given up changing HNS personnel, you didn't. Because it's very easy to trade, you, you, who became president. I got more votes in my village, which is very little. Yes, you. You are exclusively a merchant and this Parliament must not be a company that is at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39504	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, which is a distinguished colleague, Vlaho Orepić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39505	I'm not exactly, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I'm not quite sure how much it makes sense to talk to you gentlemen on that side. I don't know if you know it, but at this point, you're rude. If you go to connect Vrdoljak, Plenkovic, with the words stability, credibility, argument, but really justified at this point it does not go together. You can combine words such as instability, unbelief, and perhaps the closest betrayal. Yet, the political reality that we are witnessing these days, dear gentlemen, cannot truly be described by any word known and spoken so far. Literally. I'm glad to see Mr. Barisic laughing. It was finally clear to all that HDZ had become one food structure, one food chain in which to eat well, but in other people's account. And you need to be aware of that, I know it's hard. Ignoring the needs and interests of the electoral body of another political opponent has become a constant of Croatian political life, so I don't want to talk about it much, but when it is ignored, but when political will is issued, when the political interest of its own electoral body is betrayed, then indeed, at this point all of us together, as long as we are here we can conclude that the people have become an irrelevant political factor. The Croatian people lost the state as a means of their own politics, remember this sentence. At this point, the Croatian people lost the state as a means of their own politics. Mr Plenkovic opened his eyes to the few who had not seen it so far that the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia no longer received protection from politics or from the economy. They are the very ones who are poor and disfigured. I'll repeat, gentlemen, and remember this sentence too. I'm also talking to the people who are watching us. The population of the Republic of Croatia literally have no protection against politics or the economy, from which they are orphaned and depreciated. People but literally if they want to be saved, protect and finally restore please be cultural at least a little. Here, try to play culture, try it. It is essential to restore power over your own country, and this occasion I call upon you, I call upon the people to restore power over their own state. This involves the decommissioning of this political cartel, a political party cartel that is in place. This political cartel is acting outside the interest of the people, I guess it's more clear to everyone. This decommissioning has yet begun. These are witnesses throughout our country where the results of independent people are increasing. Finally, the people began to choose people, finally. It's the only way to destroy this cartel of political parties that manages someone's capital and not the interests of the people. You're well aware of that, too, because you can't say a word when the great leader tells you something. It's not written! I believe that all free-thinking people understand the circumstances in which we are. I believe this finally woke up the academic community but also the church. Democracy is in the gathering of gentlemen, not in this and this kind of fraud that happens in this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39506	We have three replicas of the presentation of colleagues of Orepić. First is the esteemed colleague Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39507	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Orepić, that HDZ is one food chain as you have said it to me is clear to me for a very long time. I tried to justify it, to articulate to the representatives of the Independent Lists of the Stone in August 2015. Unfortunately, they wouldn't listen to me there and decided to do it themselves, and you among them would feed HDZ twice. And what's food? Food is what comes from power, money, levers of power, positions, ministries etc. Without that food, they couldn't work. However, they always somehow manage to release their tentacles into everything alive and inanimate. Unfortunately for one part and in my ranks, in your complete. We're seeing HNS now. A lot of people here have been discredited, dragged into their own story. These people are going to disappear politically. That's why HDZ won't. It will further encourage their electoral body. Unfortunately, here I would just like to add this debate when I spoke to Mr. Glasnović after he was elected in 2016 not 15th but sixteenth when he went alone in the diaspora with his list and the first time that someone had won the diaspora mandate that it was not HDZ. I asked Mr. Glasovic how come you were the last day, the last day before the paper was handed in with your list and you didn't go with HDZ? And he told me something like this, paraphrasing Ivan, it's all your lobbys, I couldn't. There's no more Glasnovic, but I think this is very indicative of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39508	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39509	Dear colleague Sincic, I just want to confirm that you were right, but we have tried to fight in this political environment and we will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39510	Thank you. Another replica is the esteemed colleague of Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39511	Your Honor. You said that the people should be protected from politics, so I will talk about one part of the people, more specifically about one man who, while you were a minister, was found outside the Croatian Homeland for whom he fought, and this is about Mirko Kljajic from Orasje, an 80 percent military invalid wounded on the first line, a man who fought in Croatia, a man who had his own house in Croatia, a man who has a small place on the sea, a man whose two children finished schooling in Croatia and a third child goes to high school in County. To a man who has a registered car and engine in Croatia, the man is no longer a Croatian from Croatia, but is a Croat from Bosnia and Herzegovina. He was erased in your method of removing Croats from Croatia. You invited the people to a spot-on response. What does that mean? I was spotless in the 1990s on the 15th 12th when I came from the JNA where you were. What does it mean to react promptly? I'm asking you that. I would like you to answer Mirko Kljaic why he is no longer a Croat and many Croats who have been erased from Croatia? Who are we going to put in their seats? I'm asking you that. Good doški, willcommen, come, red, yellow, green, orange all come but Mirko Kljaić and his children cannot be Croats in Croatia. Promptly, he will react perhaps one day as he reacted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39512	Thank you, colleague Culey. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure before counterpart Orepic answers. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39513	Mr. President, Article 238. The Rules of Procedure were injured and you should have given a warning to counterpart Culeu who spoke absolutely without any connection to the topic that is currently on the agenda in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39514	I don't agree with that. I won't give him a warning. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. You know who they are. He responded to the replica in a way he considered appropriate. Okay. Here's a colleague of Orepic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39515	Mr. Culey, unlike you, I am obviously in favour of a regulated state in which the law and legality will rule, and I will continue to advocate it, and you often call for the Homeland War. I've been through more terrain than you've seen on TV.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39516	Okay. Thank you very much. We have another replica, it's a distinguished colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39517	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Here we are attending interesting discussions, heard from the ranks of your coalition, specifically from the reformists, that Mr. Vrdoljak was a deserter, who fled to Brazil during the Homeland War, and now here some representatives of the HDZ defend him as a great war hero. You who were at war, on the other hand belittled to fight the Croats. We also have the case that MP Vrdoljak, who ran off with his head regardless of the parliament, after the coalition was signed, claimed that those who attack MP Pusic were Ustashaid fascists, and he himself signed a coalition agreement with the SDP, which said in Article 5, that at no cost, he would not co-operate with HDZ. Do you know who acted that way, signed contracts that he later broke when he remembered? No one else to Adolf Hitler. He's 1939, for example. He signed a friendship and non-aggression agreement with the Soviet Union, so that in 1941, without the announcement of an attack, he would attack him with a masculine attack. And you know what he said? The contracts are worth so long as they're in my interest. There. And now we can't conclude anything else in the end, but that our esteemed fugitive, is here all the time in the Parliament just banging, and that basically all the time behind it, they're standing... The most banal interests which, and what you have painted, have nothing to do with the Croatian State, but with one cartel, which therefore buys representatives, swallows them, spits them out and forgets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39518	Thank you, too. Before the third discussion, just one piece of information. So I see they've already begun to arrive information on the dates when the boards will be. I ask you to adapt these terms to the completion of this point and those that will come after that, which is a change in the composition of the committee, given that we have a new parliamentary majority. So we won't be able to start before, because MPs will have to be here and vote, so I ask you to adjust then the time to end the vote of the new committees. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39519	First of all, Mr. President, I thank you for this information, because we were just about to propose something like that. And we would also like to ask the secretariat to organise committee sessions, so that they can proceed uninterruptedly, because the terms assigned provide that the sessions begin with a 20-minute difference. For example, the Committee on the Constitution was scheduled to begin at 11.00 a.m., the Committee on Justice, where a fellow member of the Committee on the Constitution, should have been presented as a candidate for ministers, and I don't think that we can carry out the discussion process on the minister objectively within 20 minutes. So please, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39520	I understand all of you, okay why we did this with 20 minutes apart. So the Prime Minister comes and introduces the minister and then goes to another committee. There are 7 committees, so that's a lot of time, we'll be careful of course, that none of the people on two committees are cut off when they vote. D So I ask for a little flexibility, we have a lot of ministers, a lot of proposals, a lot of committee sessions, so they'll ask for that and a certain flexibility, but thank you for understanding, so please once again board presidents just to adapt to the dynamics of Parliament's work. We are now going to discuss the individual next. It's an esteemed colleague, Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39521	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I won't be long, my predecessors have said a lot, I'll talk about the future of this coalition. Here are these political analysts in the last few days predicting this coalition's rapid decomposition. I will say one of my thesis which I consider to be correct, and it will be the strongest coalition in the history of the Croatian state, at least having 76 hands, 77 hands, because it is based on shrill foundations. In the coalition there will be conflicts, ideological, secular ones, there will be wonderful bombs that will throw both of them to their voters, there will be conflicts over gender ideology, about reforming education, about the Istanbul conference, but eventually all will vote again as the great leader will say and that power, or coalition, will move on. The only conflict that will not be worldly to this coalition will be the seventh command of God, not steal, it will be an order that will be erased from their consciences, and I foresee this coalition for 4 years of mandate and the stability that calls for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39522	Thank you. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Miroslav Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39523	Thank you, Mr. President. Here we are today discussing and voting in the end on the request for a stay of MP Vrdoljak's mandate. We could have heard all sorts of assumptions here, why he's not here today and why he's deciding amongst other things and that there's some kind of side pressure, I can't know today, little of us here can have information about it, can just assume. But what I do know is that one of the reasons for his request is that he embarrassed himself, his political party, after all, Croatian politics. How he shows up in these Assembly benches and defends a thousand times-said lie, which, for this pay phone, is in front of the press, which is on social networks. I don't forget the names of individual MOST representatives who pointed to an agreement between HDZ and HNS where Mr. Vrdoljak's pay phone calls tell them lies, literally that word, you lie. Today we know very well who lied and who lies in this assembly of his colleagues, who lied, who lied, who cheated on the citizens who chose them. This is a historic scam by Croatian voters, unrecorded in modern Croatian history. I remind HNS colleagues who will soon act and make up the ruling majority, that they have been selected from the SDP and HNS list. Selected at the thesis that HDZ should not manage the Croatian state. They probably don't care today because they have decided to trade chairs that have been deceived by Croatian citizens on the fraud of their coalition partners, on violation of coalition contracts. Today they trade these chairs and will trade for the next three years. Here I agree with my colleague, Sladoljev, this coalition will be solid because it is on a shriveled foundation. How would a representative of Vrdoljak appear here today to defend the fact that the Minister of Finance should remain Mr. Zdravko Maric? Well, that's how much he's defended the motion for his recall here. And then it is interesting to note that, on the other hand, HDZ today is not a problem that their current coalition partner has launched a vote of mistrust to the current minister. Here this speaker was told that MOST is not collegiate, it has been said that just by not voting Mr. Maric is the reason for the coalition's collapse. Well, we don't have a problem with that coalition falling apart, thank God it fell apart, but we have a problem that was lied back then. Obviously, it is not the question of Zdravko Maric and the Minister of Finance, obviously some of the much stronger interests, stakeholders that my colleagues have already spoken of. How to defend today the fact that HNS colleagues are a new ruling majority, and here is a little more than a month since they submitted a proposal to question the government's trust, signed on behalf of the president of the club, Mr Batinic, who is today a strong member of the ruling coalition? Unfortunately, Croatian politics in the past month have shown its face both the face and the worst sense of the word. I've been dealing with her for a long time, and I've often told my colleagues that it's not all so black. And then when I was sitting here and I saw my colleague Sauch vote, I was in shock and I saw that I was wrong. And today when we face this new ruling majority, it is clear that I am deeply wrong. However, I am pleased that my political engagement and the political engagement of my colleagues and MOST, who appeared on the national political scene, would have been dear citizens, had you not supported us, and had we not appeared, this Croatian policy would not have gotten naked to this extent, and even those of us who have been in error would have continued to trust some people who sell you flossules to get the chairs they will trade with for the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39524	We've got three replicas, the first of which is Honorable colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39525	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Simic, I agree with you that what they did in HNS is a voter betrayal, that they signed a contract with the SDP not to go with HDZ, and now the HNS is going with HDZ. However, in his own time, the president of your party also signed a contract with voters, certifying him with a public notary that he would not go with the same people. And unfortunately, one time a mistake can happen, let's just say it. The second time that happens, it's already suspicious, but it's still working on your conscience, yet you've shown that you're not people without a spine and I admit it to you. Unfortunately, HNS gentlemen have no spine, no shame, no morals, and they will take over the education system. So that's what people like that are going to do with the educational process. And it's one big shame, and it's one of the resistors that such people shouldn't be given at any cost. But since there is a price in HDZ for all, they have also accepted this in this one radical way without the support of the electoral body leading the whole country to ruin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39526	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39527	Dear colleague Pernar, as far as this famous and often mentioned public record statement is concerned, I suggest you read it and then we can discuss it and you will see that even she and what it says, MOST did not break either the first or the second time he participated in the ruling majority. As for our participation in the ruling majority and handing out the Croatian so-called to the political elites, we have shown both responsibility and good will to change Croatia together. Unfortunately, it's not possible today, and you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39528	Another replica of the esteemed colleague Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39529	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a fellow Simic to replicate on your part where you said this was an unremembered con voter. Well, I know you'd want it to be unremembered, but some of us still remember a little bit better. I'll remind you of your con voter. And remember that between 2015 and 2016 you lost 120,000 voters on your list. So 120 thousand voters were expelled from the machine because of disappointment, from the Republic of Croatia, it's a permanent loss for the democratic process, for the system, for trust. And it's not unremembered, it's not much worse or better than what HNS just did. You've had a lot more MPs than they have now. You also presented Grmoy, Mr. Grmoy as some kind of prophet, a visionary that he predicted would announce that the HNS would leave with HDZ, etc. So take my 1.9 article for the evening list of 2015 where I say MOST stands behind it HDZ. And was I then a prophet when the bridge left with HDZ a new year ago? Then why don't you praise me? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39530	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39531	Dear Mr. Sincic, I think MOST proved its principle back a year and a half in Croatian politics. Until then, a political party who was ready to give up its chairs for principle. It's an unquestionable fact, an unquestionable fact. As far as the citizens you say are concerned, they've been cheated or not cheated. I would like to remind you of the fact that MOST twice went out on its own to get mandates on its own. If you listened to me when I was talking about the fraud of Croatian voters. I linked it to the fact that colleagues from the HNS who today will be part of the ruling majority with HDZ received their mandates on the SDP lists. It's a con from the Croatian voters. Because those mandates if they hadn't been on those lists, if they hadn't spoken and represented the position that HDZ shouldn't come to power, they would never have won. And today they trade with them, it's a con of Croatian voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39532	Thank you. We have another replica, dear colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39533	Thank you very much, Reverend Simic. I would like to relate to what you and your colleague, Sladolev, have said that a coalition based on money will be far more stable than a coalition based on the implementation of party programmes. But not all people are like that. It's just with this occasion case. The vast majority of Croatian citizens are basically honest, honest and hardworking and would not sell their cheeks for all the treasures of this world. The fact that this government, such a government, will be based on a number of chairs and syncures that will be divided from the budget shows what kind of people in the government are. It is now completely revealing Prime Minister Plenkovic who said he would fight for confidence in institutions, that he would improve political culture in Croatia. And he has reduced the country to the most earthly passion possible: what I will get, how much my family, my friends, is talking about him and not about the Croatian people. It's his shame, and I'd like it to be clearly different. Yes, this government will be stable, thanks to political trade but thanks above all to the people who formed it and thus showed their right, moral, and human face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39534	There's no response to the replica, so we move on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Marko Vučetić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39535	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we participate in an activity that is not important to the Croatian Parliament but something called the Cartesian Theatre in the literature. We participate in observing contradictions that only seem to be at peace. The opposites in life can be reconciled if they are based on a solid identity of the two sides. We don't have that identity now. In order to achieve co-operation with the HNS, HDZ should first become a non-HDZ, deny its own identity. The same thing the HNS did. So in this case, we are no longer looking at this problem from the level of political thought but from the level of social pathology. These are really serious explosive elements that are embedded in a social organism. If we call this social organization a party or call it a policy that has lost its organization, then we come to a situation where we realize that just an organized thought, an organised agreement can produce what has been agreed upon. We have many missing subjects today. Do is an individual disappearance. I'm glad to tell you in person, and I'm going to vote for this point, and I'm glad my colleague Vrdoljak left. Because I really think it's important for some people in the public space to be present, it's important for some to be absent. Because we also need to demonstrate our absence as a desirable skill. A lot of people should be out in public space. They shouldn't be there. For what? Because this isn't, we can't take politics as a game and overplay, to throw, to make fun of because we're discussing serious things that depend on many human fates and not just our classy interests. The kid when he's playing he's designing the world because toys and the world give some new meaning. The man playing he's playing. This is an example of acting. And that's why we're in the theater that played the Croatian reality, played the Croatian man, played the members of these two options and left us on the side. We will be observers on the side, but we will also be those who will gather all the things that will eventually lead to us breaking up the tickets, to conclude that the performance was not good and to begin with the creation of a new reality in which the presence will be desirable, and which game will be left to children, not to the great beings who can either be being freedom beings or can be creations created from the absence of freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39536	Next individual debate, distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39537	Honorable chairman, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives and viewers who observe and disgust you. Well, I remember when Andrew Hebrang said in his day that it was a shame for the Croatian Parliament that some representatives in tennis came to the meetings. I remember when they said it was a shame for the Croatian Parliament that some representatives ate pizza in the Croatian Parliament or held an apple on the table. I think ladies and gentlemen that a suit doesn't make a man, that form can't dominate content. We in the Parliament today have a lot of people in suits and shoes, a lot of people out there who are smooth and nice. It's only natural if you can get me a colleague of the Squibbles, if you have a New Testament, please hand me that's somewhere below. Jesus himself spoke of the Pharisees, and he described them in a way that he said that they seemed very fine on the outside, and on the inside, he said, painted graves. They're people who, acting, betray themselves for something they're not. At Matthew 7,24, Jesus addresses these words: “Why do you call me, sir, but do not do what I say? Everyone who comes to me hears my words executes them, is similar to the man who built the house like this, dug deep and laid the foundations on the rock, when the river came, the stream came upon the house, but it couldn't shake because the house was well built." So, the law house was built on good foundations. "But whoever listens to my words and doesn't execute them and is similar to the man who built the house without foundation, the stream has come down and the house has fallen immediately, from it remains a great ruins." And what's important to say is that it means that many have acted to Jesus that they are his followers. So many have acted in this House that they are part of the opposition. They claimed they wouldn't become part of the HDZ government and they lied because they had no shame, because they have no shame, which is why they are here in the Parliament today. He says, "Go on," he says. Jesus says: “I saw Satan fall like lightning from the sky. ” Imagine the words of Luke 10:18. And why am I telling you this? Because in John 8,44, Jesus said that Satan was a liar and a father of lies, that there was no truth in him that he had not been standing in the truth from the beginning. We have to wonder if there are people in this House who have been systematically lying and today lie and deceive Croatian people who have no shame, who have no honor and honor and face? And in John 8,44 it is explained, who inspires such people, who are their motives, whether they are honest or not. And dear ladies and gentlemen, this life is fleeting, that's what I keep telling everyone, I repeat it often, and that's what my colleagues from the CNS need to know, that's what's left in HNS, this life won't last forever, cheaters, hypocrites, liars, cowards. Is there a place for such people in the Kingdom of Heaven? Ask yourselves. Perhaps you will say, perhaps you will say ladies and gentlemen of the HNS The Bible is not worth it, these are fairy tales, you may say Jesus Christ did not die for my sins, perhaps you will say so it is not a sin to lie, it is not a sin to cheat, it is not a sin to be a coward and a hypocrite, okay, everyone has its values and I understand why these values bother you because unfortunately these values are contrary to your values. So Bible values are opposed to the values that the HNS stands for. Unfortunately, the problem that the HNS has is not only a theological nature, but it is a fundamental human honesty and common sense that you are opposed to and your fate from the perspective of the Bible is terrible, and those who are working with you to get hold of the authorities unfortunately are not much better than you are because, in fact, as you have deceived the gentlemen of the HNS of your constituents, so the HDZ gentlemen also deceived their constituents by going with you into a coalition, at least the sincere ones, those who believe in Franjo Tuđman in patriotism and other values that HDZ in theory advocates. You see, ladies and gentlemen, life is fleeting and you will also pass from this planet and you will enter history, Mr. Vrdoljak will enter history and you along with them. Ivan Vrdoljak no more shame, he escaped but left you. He left you here for your shame, because you will have to look at the Croatian people and explain how the coalition with HDZ is good for Croatian people, for Croatian society and whatnot. And it is clear that you will not spend any of what you are about. You say you'll make an educational reform, that you won't give it up. Well, here's what I'm asking the gentlemen of the HNS if you're so against let's say so. If you feel that religion should be separated from the state, will you remove the religion from school? Is that part of the educational reform? Because I know that HNS has advocated that religious science is moving away from school, and it probably stands for today if you haven't changed that view. And I'm wondering if your ministers, or the Minister of Education, are going to remove religious science from school? And I guarantee you it won't, because you don't have any principles. Even let's say someone who's a communist is a true communist, so he has his principles. Okay. You have your principles. But what are your HNS gentlemen's principles? What's the matter? The principle is the director of HEP. Is that a moral principle? Is the moral principle a minister? What? Unfortunately, you are a party that has placed everything, or has subordinated the general interest to the personal interest. If there's an example for a party that subdues the general interest to its own, it's personal, then it's you and it's been in the people for a long, long time. But you've now confirmed it, you've now proven it. You understood today, i.e. You even opened your eyes to the blind. Jesus said once that he should speak to those who see and cannot see, who listen and do not hear. So today you ladies and gentlemen have opened your eyes to the blind and the deaf and opened your ears to shame. And the worst part is that you will continue to look, eyelessly lying to the Croatian people, looking into people's eyes, saying one lie after another. And so I'd like to read one of the songs of Ante Gustav Matoš for the last time. He says: “O this narrow town, about these narrow people, about this regiment as much as a blind man a day can be, about this hollow head, about that hollow chest, about that everyday stupid perspective. What is the honest sense of judgment? What's the flight of the soul and the heart that's recording? Why the heat, freedom, and justice when he longs in the middle of a coward, for what is the virtue of a giant? Among the peoples we Croats now, we are the last slaves without authority, condemned to fall and perish without honor. My country your sun is falling, not even dying for those Croats of strength is gone. "Ladies and gentlemen as Antun Gustav Matoč said that there is no strike for so many Jews, that the traitor is simply too many and those traitors of the people are today, i.e. He'll take over tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39538	We have two replicas. The first one's a colleague of Sincic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39539	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's colleague Pernar talking about the principles of certain people. I have now realized through my political work here for the seventh year that most people in politics can come down to two main categories. They're materialists, they're idealists. We could go back to the '90s and before, we had this so-called. Communism or what anyone would call it, and then the time of transition came. It's the 90th, the 90th, the first. Those who truly believed in this communism then left the party to retire. Some have moved to SDP SK as it was then called, which is as much like some left-wing idea of socialism, etc. But part of the people went to the other side of the HDZ and some other parties. Of course they're picking up... other things that I don't go to Croatian history now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If someone is an idealist, it means that they have entered a policy with some kind of framework and knows what is within the framework that it is a mandate given by voters to do so, which is beyond the framework that it is outside the mandate, that it does not stand in his I would say a letter in which he was sent to the Parliament. And that if anything, something should be judged which is beyond that framework he must consult with the electoral body. So there's some kind of program, some kind of attitudes, ideology, a worldview, but whatever party they care about, which is in their ideology where the person who's an idealist behaves. However, if one materialist to him is still Communism, is fascism, is welfare state or is this our kuna I would call it. People for all systems and they'll always go to whoever gives the dollar more, the chair more. Croatian voters must be guarded. Because as long as they are in the majority, they will betray voters as soon as the elections are over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39540	Another replica of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac. And did you get that? I'm sorry, I didn't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39541	Dear fellow Sincic, unfortunately the materialists and not idealists have many in this House, unfortunately. Unfortunately, there are many among voters, and this one army of arrests unfortunately holds Croatia hostage systematically by conducting a policy against the public interest and the general good. And why is that? Because voters don't go to the polls. So for this situation is essentially a marginal party holding the whole country hostage. Bloods are Croatian voters who do not go to elections and who have allowed it. And what's important is that this HNS move is actually going to disappear as a party because it's just going to get less and less and less opportunities to entangle, and they're being drawn to the foundation of everything. And eventually, of course, it will disappear, because every party that came into a hug with HDZ and didn't make it out of it in time as a bridge was sentenced to death. Remember only HSP and Ante Djapic, who held the quorum to HDZ and actually held them in power. Remember HSLS, who also went with HDZ with equal results and HSS that would have ended equally if he hadn't defected in time, so to speak, to the SDP. So HDZ is one, I'd call it, that black widow, who's gonna wrap HNS and their membership in black, except they don't understand what's waiting for them, but they'll figure out as soon as the next election comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39542	Another replica of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39543	Thank you very much, Reverend Pernar. Well, really, if there's any party that's been breaking itself, then it's definitely HNS. They first kicked out of this Labourist's party, so they kicked out of the Reformist party, so now they're gonna kick out half of the club. I suppose the final act of destroying that party will be when Mr. Batinic will throw himself out of the party and then finally be able to shut down at the Ministry of Administration. You're asking what his motivation is? Well, motivation is 20 thousand kuna, as much as the gentleman has paid, and you don't know he's second in line, right behind Mr. Djakic at the height of his salary. Well, he's not crazy now, to give it up, to go to the polls, and then to do some serious work, some community service. Just imagine this situation. Two weeks ago, the president of the Reformist, meaning former HNS, Mr. Cacic said that Mr. Stromar was an incompetent earring, who had not built a single shed in his life, who spent eight years running politics without any content, and now that man who did not build the shed will become the Ministry of Construction. And Mr. Batinic will give Mr. Cacic his hand and the word bravo you're right. While Mr. Cacic will say he can be with me in the government right now. As long as the local elections are over, what's the difference, we're in position, I'm the mayor, you're in the Parliament, and now we can move on together. I don't know, from what we're looking at right now, the Croatian political scene has turned into pure nihilism. So today I can say whatever I want, tomorrow the second day, the day after tomorrow the third, and that has nothing to do with it. It's literally the behavior of schizophrenic people. I have nothing else to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39544	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39545	I don't know what to call that group of people in HNS. So it's Mr. Bunjac, like someone's taking over the Living Wall, gone into coalition with HDZ, and then kicks Sincic and me out of the party and says you're not listening to the Living Wall. That's what HNS is going to do now. So Vesna Pusic, who is their founder, will say you embarrassed us, you don't act like the party rules and you have to go outside. Imagine who's bewitched. So its founders and people who have no principles or morals are being kicked out of the party, taking over the party. And the same thing happened to HSP when Djapic took over from Paraga. Paraga had beliefs. Opposite beliefs Vesna Pusic, but he had convictions. He honestly believed it today, but so did Vesna Pusic. However, these colleagues who have taken over HNS, this team from the Central Committee, we see in fact in which direction those HNS lead and what the future of HNS is with them at the head. So the principles 0, morality 0, honor 0, pure cheek 0, days word 0, signature 0, promise 0, pre-election 0, so that's all 0 with 0, and then they still say they care about I don't know, education reform or whatever. Well, they don't care, dear ladies and gentlemen, for nothing but their own pocket. Poor country with such politicians and poor government with such people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39546	Thank you. Now we have two final hearings. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39547	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is evident that during the discussion of the resolution of the God of Petrov, more specifically, at the signing of a part of the HNS headed by Ivan Vrdoljak it was obvious that HDZ, not at the time because of Marić, because HNS was the proponent, to discuss Marić, therefore, it is evident that HDZ was deeply rooted with HNS and this is clear and principled because we have today a candidate for Minister Bozinović, who was the key person of Stipe Mesic, a man, so here man wonders how voters who gave the vote to HDZ feel. Have they been cheated? Is this a fraud of democracy, whether voters, giving voice to Ivan Vrdoljak and HNS, gave voice to the people's coalition along with SDP and partners, gave the vote to HDZ. This is a con voter, this is a show of democracy, and here it's the most honest thing that should have been if we didn't cheat on the people, that we wouldn't throw mud at this House, to go to parliamentary elections, but somehow we could cross it, but the whole election of the campaign, because of the votes, was a conflict between HDZ, the HNS, and I even heard that some parliamentary MPs, that they were tearing out posters from Andrej Plenkovic or I don't know who not so long ago. The question here arises whether HDZ voters will accept the return of the plates,...the Cyrillic plates in Vukovar? Whether to accept the abolition of religious sciences in schools, that's HNS' idea, i.e. The program principle, that's what they represented? However, this is exclusively a trade coalition due to the further destruction of our economic resources because it is the fact that there are more members of the HNS in one HDP plant than there are members of the entire party. Therefore, it is accurate news that it has been the pressure of various directors in HEP and other companies to preserve sinicur towards the top of the government. It is also very important to open the archives, but we need to know that Greguric, Valentić, Seks, Bozinović and the economics who are these structures and those thinkers of the management of Croatia who have impoverished my Dalmatian Zagora, Gorski Kotar, Liku, Slavonia and do not care about it, simply by trading and cheating voters can come to the majority and the Pharaohic way to manage it because today we have a man who has received less votes than I do in our village where we have 500 voters. These are the facts, so here is the fraud of democracy, the fraud of voters who cast the vote to the people's coalition, giving the vote to the CNS, giving the vote to HDZ. In the end, I would say in front of the MOST club, we were in the first government, yes, but because of INA and MOL, we were firm. There have been new elections, a new man has appeared in the new elections who has done worse than Karamarko ten times is the fact that he has protected one person and therefore replaced ministers, and those who have proposed to replace the minister, Maric, has dragged him into the government. So there was no question of anything, but there is a need for Croatia to continue. Once again, I wonder, what do HDZ voters say, what do the HNS say? And once again, I'm going to remind myself of my Signan Mike Tripal, a man we can get along with or disagree with, but he fought for democracy. A Man Who Was Banned From Political Action for Croatian spring. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] The same people who gave up when he was in prison. And now they're giving him up, and on his wings they're here in Parliament. [[Invader Jandroković: Col. Bulj.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39548	We have one replica of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39549	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj. Here we hear that HDZ, which advocates democratic values, will support the minister who supports Jokic's curricula reform, so let's listen to what Pater Marija Radelj says about this curative reform. "The proposal for a Croatian language manual with a list of lecturings and classics of Croatian literature, writers of Christian identity inspiration, ignored all Croatian literature in emigration, and proposed a series of titles that promote pornography, impose gender ideology, pansexualisation of society, institutionalisation of pedophilia, entrenched by a sickly tendency to speak rude and ugly and ugly words, and from the proposed lectures of stricter simplicity and perversion. The proposal for a history manual continues partisan rematchism. The proposal for a manual of Catholic religious science makes the subject for those students who choose it a subject of religious culture leaving out the raising of the church and its own Catholic identity where religion is taught rather than religion." Can you please answer me, Mr. Bulj, will the knight of Jerusalem's grave turn his back on the Pater Radeli this time and vote for all the values he swore during his installation a few weeks ago? Will HRAST representatives, say Mr. Zekanovic, deny God and vote for anything contrary to his values in private life? Tell me, Representative Bulj, will the MPs of the Christian values, will they three times deny their faith before singing a song? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39550	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39551	Thank you very much. They'd give up their graves if they stayed in power. Oh, my God, it's a saint where these knights and the graves they're guarding are from one example, two thousand, '99. In 2007 General Gotovina set up a record for President Tudjman to hide it to be set up by Ivo Sanader in Sinj. And then I stood up, and I was forbidden from participation in the ring. And these same people when General Gotovina came out, these same people gave the Gotovina Prize to the Knights' Alkarian society, and these same people are now involved in this sacred alka campaign of ours, supporting my anti-candidate mayor. They have no sanctity; they do not have the alks of holiness, Our Lady of Sons; it is not for them to be a saintly doctrine. I've got my ideological and secular attitudes, and I'm going to stand behind them, maybe different from yours, but they have nothing but the deception of the people. It grieves me when they come in the cities before the altar, and kneels, and our people inherit it. It is not a believer, it is the Pharisees, it is the Pharisees, it is the hypocrites who have located, arrested, transferred, judged the most prominent sons while robbing Croatia and INA-MOL and Telekom, these are Croatian state robbers. These are the people who have committed crimes worse than the Turks in their conquest of the Ottoman Empire. Here I am asking them, will they return the plates of Cyrillic to Vukovar? And they passed that law... Is there going to be a tent in Sava? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's what I'm asking them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39552	We have another final hearing. So it's the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39553	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will read Matthew 23.25. “I, you teachers of the law and the Pharisees, you hypocrites, clean your glasses and vessels from the outside and inside there are full of deceptions and inmoderations. The blind Pharisees, first clean the inner cup, and the outside shall be clean. Woe unto you teachers of the law and of the Pharisees, hypocrites of one, ye are like painted graves that look beautiful from the outside but inside you are full of dead bones and all manner of uncleanness." That's what you look just to people outside and inside you're full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Woe unto you teachers of the law and of the Pharisees, build tombs of the prophets, and adorn the tombs of the righteous, saying that we lived in the days of our fathers, we would not share with them in the killing of the prophet. So you confirm that you are the descendants of those who killed the prophets. So finish what your ancestors started. And keep your eyes open, big snakes and snake births. How will you avoid being condemned to hell? Therefore behold, I send unto you prophets, wise men, and teachers: some of them shall ye crucify, and some shall be beaten in your synagogues, and persecuted from the city unto the city. What's this about? It's about the HNS gentlemen wearing great suits, looking nice, in front of cameras, and inside they're basically broken, full of fraud and lies. And watch this, like the Pharisees and the teachers of the law of Jesus ’ day and they, too, are also called upon to Mika Tripal, Savko Dapcevic, etc., as these hypocrites and Pharisees have called on the Old Testament prophets and said, we draw inspiration from them, they are our teachers, they are our tradition etc. And in reality they gave up all their principles, and in fact their ancestors said they killed those same prophets. Ladies and gentlemen. It is too high to explain what an electoral fraud is, today the Croatian people are looking at it with their own eyes, and it's shriveling, and it's awe-inspiring to see how two diametrically opposed parties have connected nothing but naked interest. I hope that this act of total issuance of voters, the fraud of coalition partners, will not only harm the CNS but will open the eyes and voters of HDZ, that HDZ voters will understand what profile they have chosen in this House to represent them and how they conclude most. I said in my time that HDZ had decided to steal an entire party called HNS after the theft of MPs, which is now turning into a zombie, a political zombie, a political dead man. And I don't really know what to call him. This strange entity actually exists now only for itself and for the people it loves by the state institutions. And those who will arrest them, who are a guarantee of their love, are people who claim to be patriotic, to love Croatia, etc., and lead a disastrous monetary policy and violate all their principles and principles as well as gentlemen from the HNS. Well, I remember when Ivo Sanader spoke to not new taxes, not real estate taxes. I was then, here I am, honest gentlemen from HDZ, I was at the time supporting HDZ because I was naive and I believed the promises of Eve Sanader, cheated on me. I thought you were really against real estate tax. And now that same party who spoke not to new taxes, now the same party introduces new taxes. That party that spoke not to HDZ today says HDZ. It is ladies and gentlemen of principle in Croatian politics, but I repeat, it is the voters' fault, both those who vote for these parties and those who do not go to the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39554	We have exhausted this debate, so we are now going to vote and I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I find that, unanimously with 85 votes, a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity, on forgiveness, and with 84 votes for and 1 abstention, so a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I now ask my colleague, Tušek, to present the next proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39555	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written statement at the 22nd session held on 9 June 2017 on the resignation of representative Mate Frankovic addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 8 June 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time on which he was elected should he resign. The commission found that Mato Frankovic began acting as deputy deputy representative on 14 days. October 2016 instead of elected representative Lovra Kuščević. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, she named Mrs. Sanja Putic as deputy representative Lovri Kustevic. The commission found that the resignation of the parliamentary office laid down the conditions for the termination of representative Mate Frankovic's office as a condition for the start of acting as deputy deputies to Sanji Putici. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously with 5 votes in favour of the Croatian Parliament, proposes to make a decision on the termination of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Mati Frankovic, ceases his term of office on the day of the Croatian Parliament's decision to terminate. Sanja Putica shall be represented by a deputy representative in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39556	I'm opening a debate. No one checked in. I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Let's approach the vote. I find that, unanimously with 100 votes, a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we have made these decisions, we move on to making an oath, so we have representatives Marijan Kustic, Domagoj Mikulić, Stjepan Curaj and representative Sanjo Putic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall call the representatives by name. The appointed representative stands up and pronounces the word “I swear”. I'll read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work to uphold the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." So I call on representative Marijan Kustic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39557	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39558	Thank you and congratulations. I now call on the representative of Domagoj Mikulić. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39559	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39560	Congratulations to MP Mikulić. I now call on Agent Stephen Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39561	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39562	Congratulations to Curaja, and finally I call on representative Sanja Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39563	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39564	We are now moving to: - The report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so I ask President Zarko Tušek to submit the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39565	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 23rd session held on 19 June 2017 the written notice of Representative Drazen Bošnjaković of 12 June 2017 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 9 June the Croatian Parliament had voted in confidence for the Minister of Justice, who is incompatible with the conduct of the representative and rested on the basis of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Drazen Bošnjakovic was elected representative in the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate on the list of HDZ 6th constituency, and HDZ is in accordance with Article 42(7). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Ivan Shuker as deputy representative. The commission found that the conditions for the start of Drazen Bosnjakovic's term of office were met with the law, as well as the conditions for the start of his deputy, Ivan Suker,'s duties. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of legislators in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9, paragraph 2 and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 5 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a decision on the stay of the representative's mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative's office on 9 June 2017 begins the rest of the representative's term of office, Drazen Boznikovic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as Deputy Representative Ivan Shuker on the day when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39566	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. No one answered. And then I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I find it unanimous with 118 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39567	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written statement at the 23rd session held on 19 June 2017 on the resignation of representative Ivan Vrdoljak, addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 12 June 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time on which he was elected should he resign. The commission found that Ivan Vrdoljak was elected representative in the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, that his mandate rested on the basis of Article 14. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament of 9 June 2017 and that Stjepan Curaj, on the same day, began to act as deputy MPs. Following that commission, it was established that the resignation of Ivan Vrdoljak's representative office had met the conditions for the termination of his parliamentary term of office. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of 12 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 as regards the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of office, on the basis of Article 10(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Representative Ivan Vrdoljak, the parliamentary mandate ends on the day the decision to terminate was reached by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39568	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering, and then I'm closing the argument. And I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 116 votes, a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39569	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 23rd session held on 19 June 2017 the written request of Representative Andra Krstulovic Opara, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that I should base Article 14. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament puts the parliamentary mandate to rest on 14 June 2017 for taking office as mayor of Split. Andro Krstulović-Opera was elected representative of the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union and the Croatian Democratic Party in the 10th constituency. The Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 42(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Antu Babic as deputy representative. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Andra Krstulovic Opara's term of office as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy representative of Ante Babic. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously reached a decision with 5 votes to begin the term of office of MPs and to start acting as deputy deputies. On 14 June 2017, Mr. Krstulovic Opari, Mr. Ante Babic, acting as deputy representative in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Rules of Procedure shall begin. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39570	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 119 votes, a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39571	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 23rd session held on 19 June 2017 a written statement on the resignation of representative Blaženko Boban for taking office of mayor of Split-Dalmatia County sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament by act of 16 June 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time on which he was elected should he resign. The commission found that Blaženko Boban started acting as deputy deputy representative on 19 October 2016 instead of elected representative Damir Krstičević. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Antu Bačić as deputy elected representative to Damir Krstic. The Commission found that the resignation of the agent, Blaženko Boban, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy representative of Anti Bačić, were laid down by law. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Articles 10, 9, 2 and 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously with 5 votes in favour, have been proposed in the Croatian Assembly of Decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of office and the start of acting as deputy MPs, in accordance with Article 10(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Blaženko Boban, is hereby suspended on the day the decision to terminate is taken by the Croatian Parliament. Ante Bačić, deputy deputy representative in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act when the Parliament determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39572	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And I am closing the debate and voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 119 votes, a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made these decisions, we're going to take the oath. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall call the representatives by name. The appointed representative rises, saying the word “I swear. ” I'll read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work to uphold the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia."
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39573	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39574	Representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39575	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39576	And Agent Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39577	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39578	I congratulate the MPs on their sworn oath and wish them success in carrying out an honorable and responsible representative's duty. And we have another point of distinguished colleagues and colleagues who need to be voted on, this is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and would like to ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39580	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. At the 21st session held on 7 June 2017, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Igor Šletneković and Svetana Lazić of Petrinja sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Darinko Dumbovic in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Darinko Dumbović is the 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be opened or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 5 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following decision: "During the term of the term of office, the authorisation for the launch and conduct of the criminal proceedings against MP Darinko Dumbovic is denied, at the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Igor Šletneković and Sveteana Lazić of Petrinja, on the basis of an action filed on 3 February 2016. For the purposes of the criminal offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(2), the municipal court in Sisak shall be bound by the judgment referred to in Article 149(2). Penal Code." Not to read any further reasons, it's a private lawsuit, and we've kept the practice she's been up to now. Of course, criminal proceedings may be initiated and conducted after the end of the term of office of legislators, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39581	I'm opening a debate. Be my guest, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39582	Thank you, Mr. President. However, I would like to warn the Croatian Parliament of a phenomenal absurd situation that when officials commit, or when someone thinks that officials have committed, MPs in the Assembly are specifically defamation, then we protect them with immunity, which is fine, and when it happens to officials, then people end up in prison for insults, so we just have to figure it out. Otherwise, we will vote for this proposal because it is a practice so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39583	First vote, Comrade Tušek. ... First wheel. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, yeah. I ask you to vote on this proposal. I find that, unanimously with 108 votes, a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Here you go, Comrade Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39584	At the 21st session held on 7 June 2017, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the private prosecutor Vlatko Silobrčić from Zagreb to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Vilibor Sinčić in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Ivan Vilibor Sinčić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be opened or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall, unanimously with 5 votes, propose to the Croatian Parliament, take the following decision: "In the course of the term of the term of office, the authorisation for the initiation and conduct of the criminal proceedings against Agent Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, at the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Vlatko Silobrčić, from Zagreb, shall be denied following an action brought on 10 April 2017 by the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal offence referred to in Article 149(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Penal Code." The explanation is the same as in the first situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39585	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I see a colleague of the Bunjac has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39586	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. He wouldn't answer his word if this wasn't the second time we've had criminal charges in the House for what's been said in this Assembly Hall. So I'm surprised that someone wearing the academic title and who allegedly belongs to 150 of the most educated people in the Republic can't read article 76. The constitution which clearly states: “A representative cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for an opinion or vote in the Croatian Parliament” means it has nothing to do with immunity. You now remove the immunity of Agent Sincic and he cannot be prosecuted again. So this is about a misdemeanor of an elderly gentleman who's because his name is mentioned in a full-right committee, so the Immunological Institute Committee is now seeking to prosecute someone with a criminal procedure to prosecute a parliamentary representative without any basis. I would like the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to say that the next time a criminal application for what has been said here and in general in the building of the Croatian Parliament means not only at the pay phone but also down at the club and in the kitchen, I do not know in any hall that it is clearly said that it cannot be filed criminally. The other thing is that Representative Sincic said it somewhere on TV, in the media, I don't know where private, but he said it in the Croatian Parliament. I therefore want it to be clear, and what academic Silobrčić was doing during his directorship at the Immunological Institute will therefore be decided by the Committee chosen unanimously by the Croatian Parliament. So he has nothing to be angry with, let him defend himself on that committee, let him bring arguments, let him bring his opinion, papers, documentation, still exists, let him defend himself in that way. This way is truly very declassified and extremely impertinent. And it really does not belong to anyone who is at that age, who bears the title of academics to address the Croatian Parliament in such a way at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39587	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39588	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, you know that you and I disagree on Mr. Silobrčić's position, but that's less important in this case. When you referred to article 76. I don't think you're right about the Republic of Croatia either. You have complete freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament and precisely that article 76 protects you in terms of immunity, that you cannot be called to criminal responsibility. However, the Constitution does not speak anywhere about a private person against you being unable to file criminal charges. Now, whether the court should have just rejected the criminal report that it does not even come before the parliamentary bodies or here before the Croatian Parliament or not, that is something that can be debated. But I don't think you're right when you deny the right of private persons to their, I don't know the satisfaction of looking through a lawsuit for what you said here and you know you can't be prosecuted for it. And no one is denying you the right to freedom of speech to say what you think and who you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39589	The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39590	Thank you very much. Dear Representatives of the Voice, I would like to point out that I understand that you are very involved in the academics of Silobrčić, he has done you some services in his time while there were situations with MP Barisic, or Minister Barisic. He's gone now and this is a whole other topic. So any court in the Republic of Croatia will reject criminal charges, not only against a parliamentary representative but against any civilian if he has spoken in the Croatian Parliament. So the Constitution is unequivocal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39591	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39592	You hurt Article 236 because you disrespected me. I ask you to repeat what you just said outside the assembly that I can sue you because you blatantly slandered me in the sense that Mr. Silobrčić did me or did us some favors, and that's why I'm replicating you because I don't see the constitutional provision the same way you do. Come on, please, get dressed up and be responsible and be careful what you say. You have freedom of speech but you have no right to slander in such a way, you have no proof of it because you know it's not true yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39593	Thank you very much. It is my assessment that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured even though we are somewhere on the verge of what might be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but this is also one of the cases that shows that we need to be careful about what we say and how we say it. And it is, we demean ourselves every day more than once, so it's a shame that we're doing it, it might be better if it's less or less. But we are now going to vote and I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 108 votes, a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And that's what we're done with voting for today. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39594	Now, before we move to the last item of the agenda, I give my word to Mr. Zark Tušek for the submission of a report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission concerning the termination of the term of office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39595	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 24th session held on 27 June 2017, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Davor Ivo Stier on the re-behaving of the parliamentary office to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the act of 21 June 2017. Since his decision on the role of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs came into force on the date of the statement of confidence of the Vice-President and of the Minister, or on 19.6.2017, the Commission found that by pacifying the parliamentary term of office of Davor Ivo Stier due to the incompatibility of the duties referred to in Article 9. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament began on 19 October 2016 and on the same day Majda Buric began acting as deputy deputy MP in the Croatian Parliament. As Davor Ivo Stier complies with Article 13(1). The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament has filed a written request for the re-behaving of the President of the Croatian Parliament in a legal time-limit, and the Commission has determined that the conditions laid down by law have been met and that the stay of the parliamentary term ends on the 8th day following the day of the application. The same day ceases the conduct of MPs to deputy MPs Majdi Buric. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 5 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament to suspend the term of office of MPs and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative. On 29 June 2017, Davor Ivo Stier, deputy representative Majda Buric, stopped acting on 29 June 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39596	Thank you very much, Mr. Shower. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And that's what they'll vote on when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39597	Now we move on to the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. This is specified, so we have then only a vote on the suspension of Davor's term of office, Ivo Stier, and the suspension of the office of deputy deputy representative Majda Buric. The debate has been concluded, and I am voting on the proposal for a decision by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Davor Ivo Stier and the suspension of the conduct of deputy deputy representative Majda Buric. Please let us vote. I find that unanimously, with 91 votes, a decision has been made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, we will congratulate Agent Davor Evey Stier tomorrow when he is here with us and we will wish him success in carrying out this important and responsible duty. We're going to vote. Before we go with the addition of the agenda, which was the first point I will ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mr. Žarko Tušek to submit the report. Today, the Mandate-Immunity Commission held its session. We've got one replacement agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39599	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At its 25th session, held on 30 June 2017, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written notice of Representative Mile Horvat of 30 June 2017 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 30 June 2017 he was taking over from the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Energy which is incompatible with the conduct of his parliamentary duties, and that his mandate rests on the basis of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Mile Horvat was elected representative in the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament as candidate in the 12th Election Unit, and the Serbian Democratic Party is in line with Article 42(6). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Dragan Jeckov as deputy MP. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of Mila Horvat's term of office, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy deputy, Dragana Jeckov. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of legislators in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 7 votes in favour, proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of MPs' mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative on 30 June 2017 to begin the rest of MP Mile Horvat's term of office. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as Deputy Representative Dragan Jeckov on the day when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the replacement institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39600	I thank my colleague, Tušek. I'm opening a debate. If there are no interested, I will conclude the debate and vote on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage and vote. I find it unanimous with 116 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Since there are no MPs today, we will have an oath a second time, another time we will swear an oath. That's it. Honorable MPs, respected MPs, good morning. We're moving on with the session. On Friday, June 30th, we adopted a decision on the stay of MP Mile Horvat's mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative Dragana Jeckov. Before we move to debate on the agenda, I will ask the new representative, Dragan Jeckov, to swear. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall call the representatives by name. The appointed representative, or representative, stands up, and pronounces the word I swear. I'll read the text of the oath now. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work to uphold the Constitution and the law and respect the legal ancestor and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39602	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39603	Congratulations to the MPs on their sworn oath. I wish her success in performing this honorable duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39604	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the representative of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 26th session held on 7 July 2017 the request of the attorney of the private prosecutor of the Adriatic Bank d.d. Sibenik sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for approval of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Dr.sc. Branimir Bunjca is a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. To skip this one part of the commission has been filed in a private suit brought against Branimir Bunjac for which it is requested to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Bunjc and has found that it was his expressed opinion in the Croatian Parliament at the session held on 14 June 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribed that a representative cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for an opinion or vote in the Croatian Parliament. The Commission considers the whole request to be unfounded. Without discussion, the Committee shall be based on Article 76(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia unanimously proposed by 5 votes to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: ‘Requirement to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Dr.sc. Branimira Bunjca on private charges by the attorney of the private prosecutor of Jadranska Banka d.d. Sibenik, which was filed on 23 June 2017 by the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). The Penal Code, based on Article 76(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, is unfounded’. I think the explanation is clear in itself. In the case of colleagues of Branimir Glavas, the Commission also examined at the 26th session held on 7 July 2017 the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb by way of the DORH on 5 July 2017 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of continuing the criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas in the Croatian Parliament for the crime of war crimes against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1) and Article 120(1) and in conjunction with Article 28. Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of 12 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 5 votes in favour of the Croatian Parliament, proposed the adoption of the following decision: ‘A decision shall be given to continue the criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb by means of the DORH Act of 5 July 2017 on the criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1) and Article 120(1) and in conjunction with Article 28(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia’. The reasoning is clear, it is a process which takes place and the request of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39606	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have completed our plenary session for today. I thank everyone for the debate. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. this morning by voting on the points discussed. I wish you good night and good night and try to sleep a little faster to get some sleep. Session interrupted at 01.55 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39607	Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Bunjc, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion which reads: Application for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Branimir Bunjc after the private lawsuit of the attorney of the private prosecutor of Jadranska Banka d.d. Sibenik, which was filed on 23 June 2017 by the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). The Penal Code shall be based on Article 76(2). The Republic of Croatia is unfounded. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 103 votes to conclude that the Mandate-Immunity Commission has proposed. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the continuation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. An authorisation shall be granted for the continuation of criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb No. KDO 105/06 of 5 July 2017 by way of Act No. KR-DO-138/2016 of 5 July 2017 on the offence of the war crime against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1) and Article 120(1) of the first paragraph in respect of Article 28. Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 101 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Congratulations and MPs on their sworn oath and all of them I wish to succeed in performing an honorable and responsible representative's duty. Now we move on to Selection, appointments and resolutions. Since there has been a change in the parliamentary majority, changes in the composition of the working bodies need to be made. I therefore ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointment, and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39609	Thank you, Mr. President. Remarkable colleagues and colleagues, selection and appointment committee and administrative tasks of the Croatian Parliament pursuant to Article 105(1), Article 161(1) and Article 273 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submits the following proposals to the Croatian Parliament. 1. Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. A resolution is proposed for members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Assembly of Mr Drazen Bosnjak, Mr Gordan Jandroković and Mrs Vesna Pusic. And we propose for new members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament Milorad Batinić, Davor Miličević and academics Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39610	I'm opening a debate. We have one application. For the debate, he appeared on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, a colleague named Pedja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39611	Dear colleagues and colleagues, why are we having this debate today? Well, not because the composition of the parliamentary majority changed but because HDZ decided to provide the majority in one committee, the first one needed to confirm or give the green light to their candidate for a member of the government. Even more later, for the vice president of the government. But today, when we begin the debate on this point, we must also discuss the issue of consistency in the work of a political party that has proposed a change. Mrs Vesna Pusic, the Honorary Vice-President of the HNS, was sitting in the Committee on the Constitution until today until we declare this before the opposition. And we now hear from the President of the Croatian Parliament, from the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Management, that the changes in the composition of the majority change and the composition of the committee. The composition of the first Constitution committee is being changed, in which I will repeat it once more, in front of the CNS, their Honorary Vice President is still sitting. As far as I know, the HNS has not yet ruled out its membership, but there is an even bigger problem. And that is the question of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament discusses that the composition of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament should also reflect the composition of the plenary session or party composition in the Croatian Parliament. To achieve this so far in the 27 years of the Croatian Parliament, and I will remind you that a few days ago we celebrated the Day of the Croatian Parliament always worked in the same way. And do you know how? In a way that the opposition and the authorities sat down and agreed and achieved that what would be on the committees correspond to what would be in the plenary session, or that it would suit the will of the citizens. We're not doing it today. And for the first time in parliamentary history, by putting incredible pressure on the parliamentary procedure, we insist on this rapid past all the rules of changing the composition of the board. And why is that? Just so that ministers can vote overnight today on which, with a classic purchase, the HNS agreed with HDZ a week ago. Respected HDZ gentlemen in this House were appointed constitutional experts representatives of all law schools in the Republic of Croatia. And what did they tell you? That the deadline for proposing new ministers is 30 days. You didn't care, you shook your hand. Your party president came and said he wasn't impressed by it. There's no need for haste. We'll suggest it when the time comes, and then suddenly, overnight, there's a need for haste. And now all of a sudden we have to vote. Do you know what the initial proposal you gave us was? How many representatives in the Croatian Parliament have you left to discuss each and every new member of the government? 20 minutes At 11 o'clock, one committee was scheduled, at 11 and 20, at 11 and 40. [[President: No, that's not true.]] Why? In order for the Prime Minister to arrive and get everything done by lunch. Gentlemen, you won't! Representatives in the Croatian Parliament decide how to dictate the pace of work and how to work in the Croatian Parliament. And now allow me for a moment to talk about what you have shown as your coalition agreement and what is the reason for this debate that we are having right now, which is why these people who should be included in this and all the other committees that we are going to discuss today are being proposed. We found your coalition agreement on the website of the Croatian Democratic Community. For example, there is not a single word, not a single word, about health care. The health of Croatian citizens doesn't matter to you. About the economy, what does it say about the economy? Watch it now. Dear Mr. President, I'm sticking to the agenda. [[I'm just asking you for a second.]] Exactly. Exactly. This is the topic of what I am talking about, because you, Mr. President, have said that the reason for the change in the composition of the Croatian Parliament board is that there has been a change in the composition of the majority. [[Adversity President: It is not the subject of this which has given you the word.]] If you tell me that the reason why this point came to the agenda is because you have concluded a coalition agreement with the Croatian People's Party, then it is very much my right, but also my obligation to discuss the coalition agreement If you don't think I'm sticking to the agenda, you're gonna take away my word, and in that case, I don't need a lawyer. [[I'm just asking you a little bit.]] I think I'm capable enough to defend myself Thank you very much. .../Intruder President, just a little please. [[I'd just like to beg you, I'll let you keep talking.]] So, I'll give you my word. Don't worry, but I must warn you that you are doing something here that is really on the verge of what is acceptable. So, you asked for a debate about the decision. All right, all right. Wait a minute. You asked for a word to comment on the decision regarding the work of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I gave you my word. You now want to talk about a coalition agreement, a programming document between HDZ and HNS. That's not the theme of what you're looking for a word for. But to be democratic, I'll give you that word, so go ahead. I thank you, Mr. President. So back to the coalition agreement between the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Democratic Community. I was particularly impressed by one point in the coalition agreement, and the one relating to the economy. And do you know what one of the main messages is? The fight against clienteleism. The fight against clientelism after all this, after all this, after all that led to that agreement being signed in the first place, they have the cheeks in it to announce a deal with clientelism. Ladies and gentlemen, this level of hypocrisy, this level of spit at the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I will not say that it has never been seen, I will say that it is a little bit seen on the Croatian political scene. But you have the power of the majority and you will use the power of the majority today. You will vote these changes in committees, but don't think we'll keep our mouths shut and we won't point out what led to these committees changing and what led you to conclude this coalition. Gentlemen, this is a store. Have the cheek to come before Croatian citizens and tell them honestly. This is a sale, an expensive purchase that costs you nothing, but those who pay taxes cost everything. Of course, I don't think it's necessary to point out this, but I have to point out that the Social Democratic Party's representative club of Croatia will not and cannot support such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39612	We have a replica of a respected colleague, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39613	Comrade Grbin, you are here now talking about some new majority based on what we need to change the composition of the board, but I don't know where that majority, who is that majority? Who makes that majority? On what basis, then, can we make such a decision at all? So it's amazing what a circus we've been doing since this Parliament. We are witnessing that from day to day, citizens' confidence in politics and politicians falls. The Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues have never had a lower reputation among citizens over the past 27 years. The citizens no longer trust Parliament at all, and what I'm doing here and these days, then trust will be even less. So, counterpart Grbin, the Parliament has become a wholesaler, with petty traders who care not about the interests of citizens, but only about personal interests. And now we literally see it in these changes that are pushing us over the line like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39614	... Thank you. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Would you like to speak to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39615	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleague Jovanovic. You said that Parliament's reputation is lower than it's ever been, and I'm going to tell you it's going to be even lower, because everything that happened back in the week is throwing an extraordinary mark on politics as an occupation. For years, we have all tried to explain to the citizens why we need to go to the polls, which is why we need to give our vote, which is why we need to participate. What we've been saying for the past five years, five days, I'm sorry, it's just that everything we've been saying is wrong. In fact, there's no reason to be involved, because what you're going out with, what you signed, sometimes with a public notary, when the elections go through, doesn't mean anything anymore. And that's why we need to speak out loud and clear about it. Today we are witnessing this circus, it will obviously last all day, the HDZ gentlemen hide most of the likes of a snake's legs, by the end of the day will probably show it, and after that, I hope that we will work, but what is certain and what will happen is that we will all pay for the fruit of this coalition. And beware of the principle of this coalition. Yesterday, they spoke, those who are now entering it, as they are against real estate taxes. And today, he's going to sit in the government who's going to spend that real estate tax. Yesterday they said they were going to continue the curricula reform, today they will be sitting in the government together with the HRAST, which that curricula reform was suffocating. Yesterday they were saying that for rights, human rights and the rights of national minorities, today they're making a majority with Glavas. What more is there to add? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39616	We have another replica. Dear colleague Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39617	My friend Grbin, you said this was a classic trade, I don't think it's a big deal, but I'd like you to explain it to me, especially why I don't think it's a big deal. Because there's always some value in the store. I don't see her here. So I'd be interested in you telling me what value you're all seeing here and not turning out to be political suckers in the sense that we didn't expect this, this is what we all expected, and when it comes to the fight against clientism, I think it's the first stage of fighting customerism to come together. And we've seen it today, and the fight is yet to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39618	A response to the replica of a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39619	Dear colleague, this is a classic store, a classic purchase, someone has offered something, in particular the HNS has offered its consistency, he has offered what is offered in the pre-election HDZ campaign, in fact one word he has prostituted, and it has offered his credibility, and on the other hand, the other side of the trade contract, HDZ has offered the chair. And on the one hand, we invested our credibility, the trust that we received from the voters in the election, and on the other hand we got the chair. And that's it, and that's it. Nothing more, but nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39620	We have another debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, HNS and HSU, distinguished counterpart Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39621	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for the replacement of colleagues and colleagues of the board who are here in the proposal was adopted on the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, based on the conclusion and vote at the session of the Central Committee of the HNS, where counterparts Beus and counterparts Anka Mrak-Taritaš, Nada Turina-Đurić and Mrs Vesna Pusic made it very clear that they would not respect the decisions of the party's governing bodies. It's very simple, so one technical element and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39622	Thank you very much. We have six replicas. He's a colleague of the Bulls first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39623	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, Mr. Milorad, I'd like to ask you to bow now at the grave of the first Croatian president of Dr. Francis Tudjman. So far you haven't. Will you be with you, how you will accept in the gay parade Mr. Zekanovic, Šipic, my friend Culej, Mr. Brkic. Will you all be able to pull this off together and give you this intention? And first question, very important. So far you have not bowed at the grave of the first Croatian president of Dr. Tudjman, will you now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39624	There's no response to the replica, so let's move on to another one, that's a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39625	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, first voice from someone from HNS during this day at the Croatian Parliament. They have been hiding in mouse holes, which is not surprising since the beginning of Croatia, since such a betrayal of voters and political trade. Here we hear Mr Batinić, this is just a technical element, as if I were listening to Milka Babovic, not a politician at a pay phone. It's just that it's not about whether you have a dress with a pair of bright green colors, for those who have black white televisions, although you'd rather walk for a year in a dress with sequins than do what HNS and Milorad Batinic do. Shameful behavior and betrayal of voters, political trade and clienteleism. People who received 100, 200 preferential votes will now bring a majority to HDZ and Plenkovic. People who are here for the protection of minority rights will put their hand in hand with Steve Culei, who when I speak to me here from the pay phone of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, he is more Croats and Croats, as if it were not understood, I guess he only thinks of them. But the representatives of the national minorities will work very hard now hand in hand with Steve Culley. Now, that's this coalition and the new Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39626	We have a replica of our colleague Batinić. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39627	So, in the sense of your colleague, Maras, you hurt the Rules of Procedure first. All that stuff you put in your replica, that's not what I was talking about. I was talking about the decisions of the party's central authorities and the reasons why the HNS club proposed replacing its representatives and representatives. And as for your painting, your expression, I won't replicate it, but what I can certainly tell you when you're talking about certain preferential votes, how many you've won, and I believe you know how much I won the preferential votes in the last election, if that's what we're talking about. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39628	A colleague of Maras. I'm begging you, just a little fellow Batinic, please just stick to the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39629	If you've won over 12.5 grand, it's an honor. Furthermore, Mr. President, I would like to ask if we stick to the topic of the agenda and if we stick to my debate, I don't think the replicas are suitable for this kind of nature and this kind. And there will be times later when you will be discussing the government's trust, for certain ministers then you can express your creativity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39630	I agree with you. I wish we had fewer replicas, but we have as many. And imagine if it wasn't for this replica right now we couldn't imagine a colleague of Maras in a sequin dress. You've had a violation of your colleague Maras's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39631	Article 238, Mr. President, I may be injured with this association, and without it, we can imagine you in sequins. But good. Thank you very much, Mr. Batinic, for your commendation, I did not do any harm to the Rules of Procedure, but I won more than 12.5 thousand preferential votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39632	Thank you very much. Of course, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, of course you used the Rules of Procedure, but we've already learned that from you. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39633	The Honorable Vice President, or President. Comrade Batinić, you said this was a technical question. This isn't a technical question, we all know what this is about. What I would ask you is, why did you give up, or why did the CNS end up not getting three ministries or the Ministry of Justice? Does this proposal of yours have anything to do with Mr. Ranke Marian, who, as a constitutional judge, has abolished it, means you've reached an orderly verdict against your chief secretary, whether it has something to do with it or it has to do with the fact that you didn't bring enough deputies in DOT, and then you've only got two ministries, not the Department of Justice? What does this have to do with Mr. Marian being the Justice Minister in the end? Here I am finding out that he has lifted the verdict against your new secretary-in-chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39634	There's no response to the replica, so let's go to the next one, that's my colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39635	Dear fellow Batinic. So what can I tell you, but I'll tell you something. I'll tell you the next thought, unlike me, the media will never attack you, unlike me, the media will never call you a thief, a fraud, a traitor to their voters, etc. Why? Because you chose to serve media owners, you chose to be part of the structures that rule our country, and that's why you're protected in the media. Why? Because the media works on the principle of rackets and interests. If you serve their owners, people like the Mason Marijan Hanžekovic the media will pet you, the media will not call you ugly names. And if you don't serve the interests of the Masanery, then they'll call you all the names of any kind. I would like to warn you this time, my colleague Batinić, that you have put yourself in the service of these structures that massacre Croatia, those structures that SDP colleague Ingrid Antičević called in the service of the Masons of the Illuminati in that service, you have put yourself together with HDZ and you will implement this neoliberal agenda, you will implement the Servian Agenda, you will implement the agenda against the Croatian people, and all for one chair more. It's like reminding me of that Western "For a Dollar More". It's a HNS program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39636	Next replica of my colleague Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39637	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, fellow Batinic, I heard from the media yesterday that you were your so-called "Baltic." The legitimacy for the crossing, for flying over to the other side of the assembly are based on... from the CNS Central Committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you didn't get elected by the CNS central board, so maybe they put you on the list where you were, but they certainly didn't give you votes and they didn't sign a coalition agreement, specifically with the SDP. Therefore, you cannot draw legitimacy from the central board of the CNS. The only legitimacy and reason you're here are voters. Now ask yourself, all these voters, you've probably been to booths, gatherings, but what's going on in the campaign, how who, where and when. And that after every handshake or speech you said when the voters were yelling bravo, bro, we're for you, thank you people, but if HDZ offers me something I might even be there. You know, it's still this, I don't care about principles. Would you get so many votes then? You wouldn't be sure. Therefore, you have no legitimacy to do this. And the legitimacy in this case has four of your members who didn't go into this story and not five of those who went into this story because they're drawing legitimacy from voters and not you who draw it from the Central Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39638	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39639	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Batinić, you have offended all citizens who have given their voice to the people's coalition by telling here that it is a technical matter. This isn't a technical matter, this is a deep political matter. And no citizen who casts his voice to the people's coalition, especially those who gave preferential votes to members of the Croatian People's Party, has been deceived and betrayed by your move. So this can only be a technical operation if we view it as a major commercial operation in which you technically rescue soldiers of Stromar who will enter the history of this policy as an easy loser who has lost his election and therefore promoted to the post of Deputy Prime Minister. Now, this is a technical, wholesale operation that has deceived all Croatian citizens who have cast a voice to the people's coalition and to the CNS that was part of the coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39640	We're done with the replicas, so I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please allow us to approach the vote. I find that with 78 votes in favour and 23 of this proposal, he has received support. So please continue Mr. Sanader, a colleague of Sanader's, to introduce us to the next proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39641	The next is the proposal for a decision on the election and termination of the Vice-President's term of office and the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed for the vice-president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Petar Škoric. On 25 May 2017, on behalf of the Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Darko Milinovic stopped acting on behalf of the parliamentary mandate. Further resolution of the members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of Mr Goran Beus Richembergh and Nikola Grmoje is proposed and is proposed as a member of the Odor for Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Stjepan Curaj and Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39642	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers, I'll conclude the debate and make a proposal for this Decision for selection, appointment and administrative work. I find that with 78 votes and this decision has received support from the Croatian Parliament. We're moving on to the next one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39643	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and termination of the term of office of members and the selection of members of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric is proposed. And secondly, on 9 June 2017, the member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak for his term of office. For members of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, Stjepan Curaj and Tomislav Lipoščak are proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39644	I'm opening a debate and we have a registered SDP and colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39645	Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Although today is not the usual day and nothing in Croatia is clearly not how it should be anymore and how people would expect it to be. We can't deal with that. They can laugh at their HDZ colleagues as they've broken up well, they can, not everyone, and I don't know right now, they're probably all still everyone, so I wouldn't want to offend the colleagues who are sitting here who clearly said what they think about this trade, but that part of my colleague who, because it's a very important topic, is about the Committee on Economy, who are today telling the Croatian public that the situation in Agrokor is developing in an excellent way. A great expert on the economy, Mr. Stromar, who really knows a lot about Agrokor today, has verified something that we'll all be paying for in the coming years and years, something that will guarantee that foreigners earn 100 million euros and our suppliers run out of money. Is anyone here aware of what happened to this loan arrangement in Agrokor, Roll Up, in the Republic of Croatia? Foreigners who bought 30.40% of the value of last period's liabilities have now received a guarantee that they will get the first one in charge as much as the loans. With a simple bill, for these nine hundred and twenty million euros they invested, they basically invested over 600 million. Mr. Štromar, HNS and Mr. Plenkovic, HDZ have made it possible for a foreign fund on our people's backs to earn more than 3 hundred million euros in a year and a half. And now someone will say that the agreement signed by HDZ and HNS is in the interest of the stability of Croatian citizens, in the interest of the development of the Croatian economy. Do you know whose interest that is? We still don't know ourselves here, but they probably know Plenkovic and his advisers, Minister Dalic, Zdravko Maric, and believe me, Mr. Štromar knows nothing. Look at the man and you'll see he doesn't know anything. On Sunday, he found himself in a losing situation, a loser, losing his election smoothly to Mr. Cacic, and he thought for two days only about how to take care of himself. And now you tell me, are the citizens of northwestern Croatia, are the citizens of Ivanac, Mr Milorad Batinić, to make one survey, are you the mayor of Ivanca, are the citizens of Ivanca want this? They don't want to, but it doesn't matter what they want. Is that what the citizens of Ludbreg want? Is that what the citizens of Međimurje want? But it doesn't matter what they want, it matters what Happy Ferenchuck wants, it matters what Ivan Vrdoljak wants, it's important and then it's important, and he wants you to believe me least. He only wants a vice-presidential post in the government, Mr. Stromar. Remember the order of what Ferencak wants, what Vrdoljak wants, and then what Stromar wants. And that's how to set up a trade, clientele, sell voters' votes no one works. I don't know how these people are gonna walk the road of Ivan, Varazdin, what are they gonna tell them? I'm calling them, tell them what you think about it. Because of Mr Batinić, because of Mr Štromar, you will continue to see Mr Plenkovic for one you did not vote for on 11 September 2016. Imagine that paradox. You had confidence, you voted for those people and they sold you out. They sold you out for what? Because of the interest of Ferenček, Vrdoljak and that of Mr. Stromar who only considered how to take care of the last three days and how to take care of it. I will tell you as hard as it is for me and I am emotional about this, because I feel responsible for the Croatian citizens who voted for us, that in some ways I am glad to see who is who. That what I have been saying for years, perhaps in these inner circles, and what some have assured me is not so, will not Ferenčak and Vrdoljak, they are ok types, that essentially they show who is who in front of Croatian citizens. Who's interested in taking care of themselves, his firm, clienteletically accessing things, and who's not like that. And I'm proud to be with one of those people in the government, and I'm ashamed to be with someone else. I'm proud of Anka Mrak, and I'm ashamed to be a colleague with Ivan Vrdoljak and I have the right to say it here. And that's what our citizens deserve to hear and never again, never again the HNS. Never again, not in any version. Milorad Batinic, next time in Ivanac, compete with HDZ support, in Varazdin County, let Štromar beat Cacic again with the support of HDZ, but we will never put our voters at such a risk with such people again. The SDP is a party you can trust. The SDP will not trade, and they can laugh here as many HDZ colleagues as they want, whether the Vrdoljak will call the divisor yesterday and vote for him today to be part of their team. ... You'll call him before I do, Oprah, trust me. [[You can't hear it.]] Remember who Kerum was coaling with and who he collated with yesterday. But if you're already asking me, Mr. Oprah from the bench, I don't like proscality, but I'm even less fond of him and less of him. I don't know if you know what I just said. I don't like proscration, but I'm less fond of conversion. I don't like it, and believe me, Croatian voters don't like to say one thing yesterday, and today you do another. And a gentleman who acts like he's untouchable, you can't even ask him anything. The man is a lawyer by the name of Plenkovic. Does it mean anything to you, Mr. Plenkovic, when you sign, you won't sign with the HDZ contract? And he says don't ask me that. What are you asking me about? Well, this is normal. I'm looking for stability. No, he's just asking him to stay in the prime minister's position and you know what I'm sorry for? I am sorry that Plenkovic won't come out of Croatia for the next election. He will be taken care of in 2019 and will leave Opari very soon in three months for the citizens to tell him what they think about it. Very soon, Oprah will hear in Split what citizens think of this travesty carried out by HDZ with HNS. I suggest that the HNS support you in Split. They have strong support there. It'll probably help you win that election. They're very popular and Mr Gjurkovic and all the others who stayed. Probably the most popular Buljubašić. In the end, there is only one thing I can tell Croatian citizens. Emotions will quiet down, passions will fall down. We're all a little hot today. I'm not one to hide my emotions because you really didn't deserve this. You didn't deserve to be sold for your job and for your business. You didn't deserve it and you didn't expect it from HNS, you expected it from HDZ because they've been doing it for the last 27 years, nothing has changed. Remember Bukovic and Šporer, I don't know if anyone remembers those two gentlemen? When in Zagreb we had a crisis for months because HDZ couldn't stand that there was no mayor of the city of Zagreb. They bought them. 22 years later, we have a crisis in the Republic of Croatia but we have new Bukovics and Spores. It's Milorad Batinić, it's HNS ladies Makar, Puh, it's their boss, Vrdoljak, Srecko Ferenčak, and what's the name of this HNS president? ... Excuse his name, remind me, I've blocked. [[You can't hear it.]] It's a famous politician from Varazdin. I'm sorry, I just remembered. This is what Bukovic and Šporer were in '95 in 2017. A year. I was hoping that Croatia with the Brussels boys Plenkovic, Stier, had gone forward, but we have returned as far as democracy is concerned 22 years ago. You're sending people a message that it doesn't matter how they vote, who you vote for, it's important to know how to buy. We are aware of how bad this message is and how much it doesn't make our people irritate them, that it pisses them off, but that it demotes them to participate in political processes. And that's all the irony that comes from the message of stability. So Croatia is not stable only if Plenkovic is prime minister or if HDZ is in power. In a year and a half, you have destroyed power three times. HDZ is now a concept of instability, a coalition with HDZ is the concept of instability. So who's smart enough to believe except for their personal interests that the people of the CNS go to that coalition in the interest of the citizens. I can't wait for the citizens to tell you anything about it. I hope he gets a chance in three months in Split. If not in three months in Split there will be elections. I say SDP if you look at your interest maybe this is the situation for us and the best, because people will see that we're the only ones they can trust. But this is not good for Croatia. Mr. Ljubic, you can laugh all you want, but Maras will never answer the question in court about FIMI Media. You're answering these days, so keep laughing. This is what Croatian citizens must hear and why I think that Croatian citizens are justifiably revolutionized by the situation not only to leave Croatia, but simply do not want to deal with this anymore. Plenkovic killed hope for Croatian citizens. Not that he gave them, but he killed their hope. It's up to all of us here to get that hope back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39646	Thank you. We have a whole series of replicas on your exhibit. First of all, the Honorable representative of Gromoja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39647	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Maras, you said you were emotional, that all of this somehow touched you. I'm totally calm, I've been expecting this all along. I knew what kind of team the HNS was working on, I knew what kind of political party it was, on which it was based its power, on those personnel in public companies, on the power that comes from participating in power. I also expected nothing more from HDZ. HDZ voters vote for the party because they think they hold up some values, ideals, but it is a team that understands politics in the same way, which in this party for its own personal interests, not for Croatia's sake, Plenkovic said, and fellow Bulj, freely could enter the HNS in 2011, it would be the same, but estimated, probably, that through HDZ you can make more progress and you're right when you say, why he didn't go to the elections now. He has an interest in being in power for four years, then go somewhere in some position in the European Commission. When HDZ, then suffers a flood in the election, then the great leader will say, it's because I'm gone. And they're not the problem here, Vrdoljak, Ferenčak, Štromar, but the problem is that one good part of the HNS membership has opted for such a coalition, because they went into politics and entered precisely for the same reasons that Andrej Plenkovic and one good part of the HDZ representative here, of course, can't claim the same thing. So they didn't go into politics to do something good for Croatia, but to achieve their interests, and that's visible from this that people pushed the coalition with HDZ, all of them or those who were under some kind of investigation, or who had convictions like Ferencak, and then went to push for the minister of justice of a man who, as a supreme judge, brought the verdict, that's the team that has the same interests. The same interests are Vaso Brkić and Vrdoljak. They're the same interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39648	I ask you first to stick to your passions of time. The Honorable Representative Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39649	Thank you very much. Well, no one normal, no one responsible in this situation can behave indifferently. And when you ask me, one of the main CNS arguments, to join the coalition was education reform. Mr. Batinic, I don't want that party that propagating fraud, lies, trade, [[Attack Rainer: It seems to me that you answer to your colleagues Grumo, not Batnic.]] He's doing a curative reform that will teach my children. [[Maybe I heard wrong.]] I don't want to. I don't want that. I don't want my God Markicka to do it, but I don't want you to do it either. What's it gonna be based on? At what values? On fraud, lies, shops, what a message it is to our children and our people. What kind of values do you stand for? Tell me, what are those values? A scam, a lie, a store. So who can you convince that you did it for the sake of Croatia's interest. Shameful behavior, disgraceful behavior and Croatian citizens see it. And that's why Mr. Grmoya, I can't be indifferent. As angry as anyone will say, because he's lost, not today we've all lost, except they're not even aware of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39650	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39651	Comrade Maras, you're amazed at the HNS' moves. Well, 90% of the people in Croatia don't. Of course, they're a clienteleist party and all the opposite of what they did in the contract and not just that. As well as the people who propose, they are indeed in line with Andrej Plenkovic on all matters. Like what? Or to Mr Bozinovic Ranko, Marijan, who was proposed, not only did he say that he was protecting Ferenček and the rest of the pieces, but he verbally condemned Mr Dobroslav Parago for verbal deliction in the '80s. So that's what the structures are for, which is why the archive and lift, I just saw Shex in the hallway. Now they're trying to row on here. So that's not weird to me. Andrew Plenkovic could have entered the HNS freely. To him, Croatia is absolutely nothing, Croatia is a springboard and it aims to be president of the European Council or something like that. And HDZ voters, absolutely voters, do not share any value with Andrej Plenkovic. So here, Mr. Maras, imagine you are a gay parade in Zagreb or possibly in Milan, here to be together gentlemen from HNS, Batinić, your colleague, colleague Zekanovic, colleague Krstulović Opera, to walk in Milan or Zagreb. Is it premiseable to you, or that fellow Batinic who never went to the grave of the first president, would now go to the grave of the first Croatian President Dr. Tudjman, he cannot do it. You are exclusively, it is exclusively a trade coalition based on customerism and Croatia must not be a PPD. We have to stand up, people. The first gas company is not equal to Croatia and is not equal to HEP, nor Martina Dalic and HEP sales. Martina Dalic can pay smartly, but she doesn't have to, let her know that she... No matter... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39652	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Everything I'm going to discuss today, and here, and honestly, I'm going to say what I mean and the bridge on the board, they're going to realize that I didn't expect anything else from HDZ. I'm not surprised. I'm not surprised. I remember when I was a kid in 95's or a young man when I was 21 years old, I remember this store and how HDZ bought two MPs in Zagreb to have a mayor. I remember a lot of things after that, but I was hoping, I really hoped, because of ourselves, because of our country and our future that these methods are behind us and that it would simply never be possible again, so for hygiene if you wanted political Mr. Plenkovic to reach out for the representatives of another political option that got votes on a completely different platform. Well, they're not if you want to vote in the second constituency for me and that tomorrow I take my hand with Julian Brkic and we go together and form a coalition government. I really can't imagine, I should tell the citizens before the election. The great coalition is possible and then after that go to the great coalition, but now never. I believe me with that you couldn't sleep peacefully. This doesn't bother me, I just can't believe anyone can do it. I think Mr. Brkic is okay. He's come to his goal. He was maybe a little nervous. when the presidency changed its mind, and tomorrow it will be corrected. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39654	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, what you said I would sign, but I would add one more thing that worries me about what my colleague Grbin was talking about. So we're changing some people on boards today, we're voting on this and the Committee on Economy among other things, but also on other committees, but what matters is that I'm worried about, we're changing people from the opposition quota with people who are no longer an opposition, who have publicly declared that they are not, who have said they will vote for this government. Then how can we replace colleague Anka Mrak who runs the board with colleague Bernarda Topolko? A colleague, Anka Mrak, got the place out of the opposition quota, and counterpart Topolko said she would vote for this government, so it's not an opposition. This is rape democracy, that's what worries me more. Will this become a precedent and a principle of conduct in this House of Commons? That's what worries me. If the arrival of the HNS is in most HDZ means such events in our Parliament, such a rude step over the democratic procedure in the Croatian Parliament, then you are absolutely right when you say that we have lost everyone today, that all Croatian voters have lost today, that today has lost Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39656	The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39657	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic, you have noticed one technical thing that is correct, but I will now use every replica and answer to tell people what is essential. It is essential that Mrs. Topolko and her chosen person are Mr. Posavc, the mayor of Međimurje County, that they are elected to this Parliament on an explicit condition, provided that you never want to join the HDZ coalition. And now tell me what their neighbors will tell them? They've signed a coalition where they're rallying, and we're not going with HDZ. Now he's gonna raise his hand. What will their neighbors say to them, what will their constituents say to them? I invite them to publicly tell them what they think of them when they meet them on the street to tell them what they think of their move, never to think of anyone else if they say anything to people, and even more so as to sign as a political party so they don't turn it completely and trick voters. The question now is, with what confidence does HDZ sign the HNS coalition? So the signature doesn't mean anything to them. I said that the interests of Ferencak, Vrdoljak and long, long, long no one and place... That's it. That's it. That's it. If Stromar had stayed mayor, there probably wouldn't have been this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39658	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Vezligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39659	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, here in your presentation you touched the third constituency. As someone who's been on the list of that third constituency and shared fate with four MPs who have now submitted themselves to HDZ, I must say that today is a sad day for all of us who were on that list today. 52% of the people in the third constituency voted for the People's Coalition, 93,000 people gave us confidence, gave us their vote. That is why this is a sad day, but also a day that creates one defiance, not only within the SDP, not only within our sympathisers but also within the HNS where a bright example of the president of the Zagorje HNS is being set, which says that personal interests and sick greed have surpassed all values today. And just three weeks ago, somewhere and a week ago, we were together, we were together in one hard-to-be for one term, and we made it. No county came to the HDZ wing, no Krapina-Zagorje County came where personally the prime minister, ministers, there were three ministers in one day in Zagorje... remembered a week before the elections, failed but we got even more support from the citizens in the first round. We told them, once again there's no passage, but a pasar, but a passive policy that leads us, where? We all know where, but in the 3rd constituency, no. There is, however, if we didn't run that policy, we wouldn't have the largest reduction in unemployment, we wouldn't have the smallest number of evicted people, and we wouldn't have one perspective for a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39660	Thank you. Something will say about it, dear representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39661	Thank you very much. I see you, Mr. Vice-President Knight, entertaining this and trying with a humorous fling to demean our debates. I'll say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39662	I didn't throw anything at you or anyone else. So please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39663	What is unnecessary is the introduction: “There will be something to say about it. ” It's Gordan Maras enough to have a word. Here, if I may beg you in the future to say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39664	Let me run this session the way I want to. And why I said that, I'll explain now. Because replicas are designed to ask questions and answers. This wasn't a question, and you're aware of that, too. This is something your colleague said, you're going to say something else, and you have every right to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39665	I ask you once again to treat everyone knightly the same way and not just us in this way and correctly to your HDZ colleagues. A true knight would treat everyone the same way. So that's all I ask. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39666	I don't know how I behave differently. Remind me, please, when it's the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39667	Now I warn you, and I ask you to behave with a knight. I beg you to give me back my time. And that would be chivalrous. ... My colleague, Velligaj, you said 52 thousand Croatian voters from your Electoral 3rd unit, 53rd, I apologize 93, I didn't hear well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In the second election only over 70, unfortunately, there is another representative on our list, the Croatian Party of Retired, now no longer a member of that party left with a few hundred preferential votes, obviously the SDP needs to learn from it and no longer sponsor those for which you can't be sure that they will later share their same policy. That's quite a sponsorship. I hope we learned that lesson and next time we'll set ourselves up differently and we'll know who, how and how we can count on it. But even worse than the 93 thousand, just before Mr Batinic told you, 12 thousand was for him and then you have 200, 300, 200 for the lady you mentioned earlier, means 3 votes by our ladies here that will raise their hands from HNS for Plenkovic's government in total got 5 hundred, or 6 hundred or 7 hundred preferential votes. So it has nothing to do with what the Croatian voters want. If the 12 thousand Mr Batinić were taken away again, 80,000 would not be in the Croatian Parliament without whom the ladies would not be. So these voters don't want what they're doing right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39668	The next replica is the esteemed representative Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39669	Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you were talking about Mr. Stromar's economic abilities personally about Agrokor. However, it is very interesting and I ask you to comment, so he is as future Minister of Construction, at the same time Deputy Prime Minister for Social Activities. How much is understood in the need to cover the area of social activities we see from a coalition contract where there is not a single word of health care. Right now, the debts are growing, waiting lists are increasing longer, doctors are still leaving and he will be the vice president in charge of social activities and health care in which he has not agreed to a single sentence in that contract. Not only that, as vice-president of the government for social activities, it will also deal with culture. No culture has been mentioned in any sentence in this contract. So we see how quickly all of this was done. And what the public needs to know, so it's about one scam of all of us here in the Parliament. So look at the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Mr. Beus Richembergh, who was in opposition and Mr. Nikola Grmoja, who was in the ruling coalition, was now named Stjepan Curaj and Angelko Stricka both of the ruling ones. So one place of opposition was taken. So what's this? How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39670	The answer of the distinguished representative Maras. I'm asking you all to stick to the point. At this time we are discussing the selection of members of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. Not even a colleague of Stromar's was proposed to the Committee. So let's stick to the subject. Okay? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39671	Thank you very much. In your replica, you mentioned a principle that was not only applied to the Committee on the Economy but also to the Committee on the Constitution. And what I could conclude from that no. 1. Or it's about political trade and settlement of certain places and ignoring democratic standards because if it's about the strength relations we now have, the political ones in Parliament 78, 74, then the ruling majority should have a maximum of one over half. So either it's about rape and showing power in the political spectrum or it's about, and trade, or it's about Mr. Curray's incredible ability here in front of me. Since he had just entered probably Andrej Plenkovic had already witnessed this ability somewhere, and we as advocates had not yet had the possibility, so either it was an incredible ability, it was there that he should have entered to help the Committee on the Constitution or it was about political trade. Now let our citizens assess, no, it's not about the Constitution committee, assess what's going on, and I'll tell you what Mr. Stromar's abilities are. A week ago, a little more than a week ago, I asked him here at the Parliament for a reception, as I see you're having trouble with Caddy, you're not gonna make it. He told me, no, it doesn't all work out without a problem, I get it 100%. We all know how it ended, so let's let him tell you how capable Stromar is of politics. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Comrade Maras, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39672	Next replica of the distinguished representative Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39673	Thank you, Mr. President. So, fellow Maras, you mentioned in your discussion the economy, you mentioned an agreement signed, or platform signed between HDZ and HNS, and in that platform based on 7 points and on two pages of rarely written text, about the economy itself, under point 2 of the strong economy and entrepreneurship as many as 5 sentences. Full five sentences and we know that Croatia is currently in an extremely difficult situation because we have a time bomb called Agrokor. The main reason the HNS supported the HDZ coalition was the curricular reform. On the curricula reform, on education in this important agreement full of five sentences. The fact that there is not a word in the agreement, the only thing about health care, the culture, my colleagues have already spoken about sports, but you know what else is not there, not a single sentence about tourism. An important economic branch of the Republic of Croatia, 8 billion last year. Not one, not one sentence. So I ask you, colleague Maras, is this coalition based on an agreement and a desire for this Croatia to go in a good, quality direction as it convinces us or exclusively and only in the division of the chair?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39674	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39675	Thank you very much. The answer is already being imposed on you in itself because already in these and now polls that ask people if they believe in the government and in the direction it goes, 73% of them say they don't believe and that the government is going in the wrong direction. Now, when you add these political giants who have decided to support HDZ, it means Štromar, Ferenčak, Vrdoljak and others and it's de facto about people from 2 Croatian counties. Otherwise, it is a matter where unfortunately people from the HNS, from all over Croatia, cannot participate in the way they participate in other parties. Here in 2 counties there are almost half the people who manage the party. And that's the rest since Cacic formed a party and was a Varazdin mayor and now the entire HNS, including those who are dissatisfied, in Dalmatia, in Slavonia, in other parts of Croatia, Bjelovar, Zagreb, can't do anything because the people of Mr Batinić, the parent organisations have a third of the central board members and then they explain that their interest is to enter the coalition and it's about people, I said from one county they don't have anymore and they'll never have it again because only, you know, when they'll only have it? If Matija Posavec becomes president of HNS and Cacic returns to HNS, only then. Stromar, with Stromar, he'll never have her again, and he won't have half of these mayors who now have her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39676	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39677	Your Honor. My colleague Maras, not that you humiliated your colleague Curaj in his ability, do you wonder how the workers of Bjelovásica evaluate your abilities as the financial director who was sitting in Zagreb led their company so that she burned herself twice from such consequences? And I can't help but say, since 2000, I've been waiting for this moment where I'm really enjoying it, watching you whine and moan, squirm, you can't stand defeat, you don't know as a Croatian man to suffer, to endure, to pray to the dear God, it'll be better, to see the light at the end of the tunnel, to see the future, not just the villages, the villages. The steak in someone else's plate is always bigger and better than yours. You're insulting your colleagues from a colleague and colleague of the HNS, why? Well, it's the other ones here who never gave me a bad word and the ones who came here with me were conflicting on the ideological issue. There's a lot more of you with the same ones. You're saying they didn't choose the right transition at the right time. Is your party in '91? decided to take the right step to support this Croatia in its path towards freedom and democracy which has allowed you and allowed you and whatever you are to sit in this Croatian Parliament. Thanks to the democracy you didn't want and that you didn't fight for back then, who were you waiting for? Who were you trying to coalize with? No, with Croatian, Croatian HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39678	Thank you, colleague Culey. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. She's a colleague of Sabina's Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39679	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Culej, as usual, injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, he did not reply at all to his colleagues, Maras, and I would ask in the future that you warn MPs about such things as that, the fact that Croatian language should be spoken in the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Culej as a great Croat should know that the plate is not a Croatian word, but a plate is said. There, it is a minimum you should know as a Croat to respect our beautiful language and use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39680	Thank you very much. Of course there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask my colleague Jovanovic to say what he has.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39681	Mr. President, Agent Stevo Culej injured Article 238 where he was demeaning and speaking falsely to the SDP's Club of Representatives. It's been since the '90s. Until '92. While he was sitting in the basement of this assembly I sat in the assembly and was present at all the events that allowed Croatia to become a free and independent independent state and also about the decisions he was talking about here, imputing that the SDP was against. So it's a lie he keeps repeating, and I'm asking you to warn him about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39682	I'm not going to warn him because I'm having an argument and we hear a lot of ugly words, lies, personal insults. So I'd like to appeal, here's what I'm gonna do, to take advantage of this situation so we can all go down a little bit and still be a little bit more careful with each other, because the words are going down. It's going ad-hominem. I think it'd be nicer if we talked a little bit more correctly. The answer to the replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39683	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I don't know if it's a business permit, but I'd very much like to give Mr. Cule another two minutes just for him to speak, because the more he says it, the more people see this as a more pointless situation. So here's what he just gave the speech, insulted Mr. Batinic's colleagues yesterday, his friends still believe they're friends, and tomorrow he'll go hand in hand with Mr. Batinic. So let's let people see how perverse this is. Just give Cule as much talk as you can. The difference between me and Culei is that I don't view this as a victory and defeat because here you don't play ping pong, or table football, or darts. This is about the people who chose us. It would never occur to me, Mr. Culey, if I worked with your voters most of them in the Croatian Parliament. I could never think of that. Remember that's the difference between you and me. There's something called principledity, there's something called responsibility to its voters. It doesn't matter to you. It's important to you to add up, you care about winning and losing, you care about steak in a plate. It's important to you, and it doesn't matter to me. I don't care if I tell my voters tomorrow whether I let them down or not. And once again, I will send a message here to all Croatian voters. The only party that hasn't let you down and won't let you down is the SDP. And when a man looks selfishly, this is the situation that's best for us, but it's not for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39684	Thank you, too. We have concluded this debate, so I am voting on the Committee's proposal for a decision on selection, appointment and administrative matters. Let's approach the vote. I find that with 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 14 against and this decision has received the support of the Croatian Parliament and we move on to the report of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. I'm asking President Antu Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39685	Thank you. The next is the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Nada Turina-Đuric, is proposed and is proposed as a member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Bozica Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39686	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I shall immediately conclude it and put it to the vote of the Proposal for this Decision of the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please vote. I find that with 77 votes in favour and 13 against this decision, it has also become valid, so let's move on to the next argument of the board president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39687	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament, Anka Mrak-Taritaš, is proposed and proposes to be chaired by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament, Bernarda Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39688	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. He applied on behalf of the SDP representative club of counterpart Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President. You've made progress. You've made a lot of progress. [[I've made some progress.]] Maybe I'll use all 15 minutes so Mr. Culey can enjoy it as long as possible. I can do him that favor. So, this amendment by the president of the Building Committee is disputed by the aspect of what is the place and from the personal one, but also by functionally calling it positions because that place belongs to the opposition at this time, and Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash herself declared that she would remain in opposition. However, the legitimate reason is that today, given that the Minister of Construction is going to the board, that the ruling majority has a majority of boards, but would pray that in the future division of the Board of Auditors, this committee should be in the opposition quota, as it has been so far, that a replacement should be made, because I suppose, if they set up a club, they will have the right to one chairman of the board. Well, whoever doesn't decide to be Mrs. Taritash, then she does, but that's less important now. The second thing I want to say is that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the debate on individual ministers, have been passed on to committees to avoid this situation in the assembly. And to change technically only one minister, as it has changed or as Minister Gordan Maric was appointed, there would be no debate. At this point, seven ministers are changing, a third of the government and de facto and the parliamentary majority is changing. And this situation is business as it is, but politically it's such that we have a de facto new government. And it would be a similar situation, so if the Prime Minister resigned, collected signatures and came with the whole new government and discussed the government's trust. Well, when we didn't do it like that then we used the possibility at the plenary session that, through these points which, for unknown reasons, the ruling majority put in today and not last night, but that's their right, and I think someone said, I mean, a colleague of the Grbin, so there were colleagues from the HDZ who informed us that there would be these points, so it wasn't exactly that there was no agreement, I have to say it here for the record. So it was logical to conduct a debate about the government. As this has not been done, then we colleagues from the Bridge through the Mandate-Immunity Commission report, and we from the SDP through these decisions on the selection of appointments have actually held a debate on the whole new situation in the Croatian Parliament, so I will continue in that sense. So much for the introduction, so it's clear what this is all about. So, the proposal of the club of representatives of HNS Liberal Democrats and HSU is that, instead of one of the most successful ministers and the unrecognizable members of the HNS and the candidate for the mayor of Zagreb, who until the day before yesterday supported, at least nominally, and what they were doing outside, let her speak if she wishes, shows in the matter of which absurdity the whole situation was brought. So the party that has decided to give up the most recognizable and most famous members, in order to halve its Club for three months or three years and participate in the government with the party against which they went to the parliamentary elections, leaving the list of the other party that was clear, put it not to go with this. So this is one of the most absurd situations, so one kind of public, political suicide or the legalisation of a political euthanasia of a political party, at least as far as politics at national level is concerned, will depend on their success on what people who manage cities or municipalities are going to be, it has proved to be. What exactly happened? So he'll be aware of the regional party and run out of people who've been elected to those election units outside. But what's really most interesting of all, when they agreed to the 2015 and 2016 lists, is the only question they had for us, and what about Anka? Because within their quota, of course they were already agreed and then they always put her on the second election unit in eighth place. And that lasted a few months. As for the Construction Committee, the discussions on what we're going to do with Anka may have lasted four minutes, not four months. And that's why I have to express my deep disagreement with this change, maybe it could have been done in another way to replace someone from another opposition party with someone, and because of all this why it happened, I'm going to use a minute of my time and I'm going to shut up about the pay phone. For our colleagues from the HNS, that is for their party and here is my moment of silence for the HNS, and you, of course, can say whatever you want, but the president should warn you. Here, a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39690	I beg you for peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39691	Thank you to their voters and to their glory.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39692	Thank you very much. We have six replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague of Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39693	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's after my colleague Bauk actually on behalf of the HNS voter probably kept a minute of silence for the fall of the HNS in their eyes. Comrade Bauk I would like to join you, I would like to join your dissent with the shift, Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash, from the presidency of this committee, above all because I believe Mrs. Mrak-Taritash is quite qualified to lead this committee and that she has done the job with honor and dignity. Secondly, which is totally controversial and what is some new practice for this Croatian Parliament, which is being introduced today, this is not the only committee, where opposition representatives on the board are actually being replaced with representatives of the new majority. And I really don't mind that the clubs make a decision that Mark will be replaced by Sima on a committee, and it's always worked that way so far, and that is, the replacements on committees have been a technical issue to date, but today we see that HDZ is abused by this situation and that representatives of the previous representatives of the opposition in committees are changing the representatives of the majority which significantly violates the good practice in the Croatian Parliament and the structure of all committees. This is not the only appointment where this logic was conducted, this is happening on all committees, except in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and this is something that is very, very dangerous for parliamentary life in the Republic of Croatia and for the functioning of the Committee. This is carried out at a small door, citizens are burdened and perhaps even representatives of other things, but what you are doing is not good, it is very dangerous and even arrogant and underrated to all parliamentary representatives, and especially representatives of the opposition in the Croatian Parliament. And that's why today, in relation to all the practice we have so far voted against, we are against it. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39694	Thank you very much. Nothing. Second replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39695	Thank you, Mr. President. And where's my colleague Bauk? I can't see you, I'm sorry. Comrade Bauk, what's happening today is a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39696	Wait a minute, Comrade Maras, so please don't throw it away. He didn't call you, he didn't call you, he didn't call you, he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39697	What's happening today, which is the fact that ministers can't be discussed at the plenary session, but on committees, it's your responsibility. You changed the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and thus discussed ministers on committees not at the plenary session. The second thing is a lie that you haven't said, but which has already been pulled through the replicas many times from the mouth of SDP deputies that the relationship between the chairman of the ruling committee and the opposition has been violated. Never had such an unfavorable relationship in parliament been among the board presidents who chaired the ruling and opposition. I highly respect Mrs. Anku Mrak Taritas we are colleagues and I respect what she did and as minister, but you forget that at this moment almost the relationship between the president is identical 15:14 because Mr. Podolnjak continues to preside at this moment in opposition. Mrs Ines Strenja-Linić is still chairing and the opposition is. At this point, we're changing only one president to Mrs. Anku Mrak Taritash and we're going to do this through the next, and you know it very well, through the next couple today, we're going to reconfigure this whole thing, and we're going to get back to the right relationship. And the third thing, Mr. President, they took a little time for me Mr. Mrsic to warn me about, so let me get to the bottom of it, on no board has a disturbed relationship between the opposition and the ruling, and we've been very careful about that. You're a mathematician and you can explain it easily 7:6 in all committees is a ratio of 7:6 thus I ask that we be to the end [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] correct when we talk about committees and he's given a disturbed relationship between the ruling and the opposition. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39698	Thank you. Be my guest, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39699	Thank you. So I am considering that yesterday we held short consultations to see this as a temporary state that will comply with the exact state of the Croatian Parliament the moment it completes, completes or completes the parliamentary majority when we know exactly what the new clubs are, how many who have them, etc. Therefore, even after the speaker, I said that it is legitimate and politically legitimate for you to be on those committees, at least on those committees that today confirm ministers you have a majority because this clearly corresponds to the state of the Croatian Parliament. I expressed regret that this had to be done by amending the Committee on Construction of the Presidents, but I also expressed my desire to talk again about whether this committee would belong to the opposition, and some other authorities, etc., it was the first minute of my address so that we agree. As to the fact that relations have been violated, it is very clear that according to the composition of the Croatian Parliament should be a ratio of 7:6 so if today's interventions have disrupted it then it will be improved. It's here now you've said it's going to be so, so I think that remark has a temporary character because we're going to coordinate it. And as for the change in the structure of the Rules of Procedure, you're right again. The only thing is that it is not the same to change one minister and lead the whole day of the debate, which was according to the old Rules of Procedure, and we have changed it a little too often, is the same truth, but neither are you more often, so that we cannot change seven ministers or change the parliamentary majority and seven ministers and demand or expect that there will be no plenary session on the metrics or reconfiguring the parliamentary majority. And in that sense, in one sense of time, we used these changes, and colleagues from the Most used the Mandate-Immunity Commission to talk about the circumstances in which it happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39700	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39701	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, I disagree with yours with part of your replica, and that's the part where you kept your mouth shut because I think you should speak out loud and people should hear. Although sometimes silence is clear enough and loud enough, but people should be told all the time that people don't think this is normal, that people don't think and that people are at peace with it, that people don't think that the arguments are dumber than ever that Stromar gives around Agrokor now why I was against Maric and why are we now for Maric? That they don't think it's normal behavior and that we agree to it. Yeah, stupider explanations than I've ever heard. Because he says, look, we got the money yesterday, all the suppliers will be calmed down. And what if they don't? Is he gonna call Stromara? Will people go out on the road to Varazdin at Stromar's house and ask for money? Who's guaranteeing them? What does that man even say, does he understand what he's saying? That at this point thousands of our companies are waiting for their money to be left to Agrokor and for which Agrokor is owed. And Stromar speaks to them now, and all will be well, and all shall be rested. And what if he doesn't? Here, you tell us, Mr. Batinich. What happens to the HNS, will you continue to support it when Agrokora concerns HDZ if our suppliers don't get their money? Will you continue to support them? That's what you tell us. Don't lie to people, don't lie to people. And people need to hear it, and they need to know. Nothing good on a lie can survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39702	Okay. We're going to the next line, Stephen Kovac. Dear colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39703	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bauk, I would completely agree with you if it were a con voter. But before that, I would like to congratulate my colleague Bernardi Topolko on his appointment as chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning. And that the con voter's telling the numbers. So far, former president Anka Mrak-Taritash has been replaced, who joined the Assembly with 16 thousand 373 votes and the president became a lady who joined the Assembly with 226 voters of at least 14 candidates who were on the list in the 3rd constituency. I'm still puzzled by another thing today, I'm reading in our mayor's local newspaper interview, the president of the Međimurski HNS, who says we as a Međimurje organization were not in favour of coalition with HDZ but we remained a fat minority and today his replacement here will raise his hand for this government, so someone here is lying, I would say. Or they're not as consistent as here are now showing up with this getting into this right camp, so there's no credibility, there's no consistency. Obviously, it's not the quantity that matters. It's the quality of the number of votes won. It's HNS. I'm really sorry because together with the HNS in the Third Election Unit, we got 52.26 votes from the coalition. It is known that the Third Election Unit of Međimurje County, along with Istria County, is the most developed county in Croatia, where the right hand is not, but the left hand, and that is why we are the most developed. And I'd end up with Luke Bulic's hit, listen to him on the antenna, 1st, 2nd, 3rd chair is luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39704	Your exposure didn't provoke a colleague named Bauk to answer your questions, so then we move on to the fifth line. Dear colleague Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39705	Comrade Bauk, here I can tell you firsthand what it's like to work with HNS. Namely, in Varazdin County, we've been a proper partner for the past few years. However, we can see that today HNS has turned one new page and I am convinced that it is the party's end page. But I would go back a few years, to get to the first problem, and that is when did this situation become and when did this situation start happening in the Croatian Parliament? Two years ago, MOST started this jumbus where politics is today, and today, of course, everyone in MOST is talking like this is something new to them, but that's what they were doing. That's what you MOST colleagues were doing, two years ago and a year ago, what the HNS is doing today. Here's the HNS going to do the same today, he's made a new turn. And I'm sorry that this is how politics is run. I'm sorry that this kind of behavior, because of this kind of political trade, people on the road spit on us, citizens hate us. I believe that citizens will see through and that after such proceedings by one party and another, in the next elections, whenever they are, they will punish those parties and the people who come on the list from these parties because we see that this way, such procedures create a total mess in Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39706	There's no response to the replica. And the last replica is an esteemed colleague of the Greeks. Let me just say he answered the line during the silence that MP Bauk had.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39707	I'd like to say to Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament and my colleagues and colleagues that it was my first thought to replicate that Arsen silence, but I'm going to give it up so I'm going to say only two important things about Anka Mrak Taritash. First, one of the best ministers, i.e. Minister of Milanovic, therefore to the government of Kukuriku coalition and then to the 3rd in all studies, the third most popular person in the country. Why am I saying that? Well, I just can't, I'm dealing with, I'm here with you, we've been dealing with politics for years, I can't understand that one party that carries about 2.2.5 percent of the country's maximum 3% of people overnight, the third most popular person here in the country, who won so many votes in the city of Zagreb a few days ago. Which, twice in preferential votes, entered this House, etc., so that I do not speak all that is said with Anku positively. It actually says that in our politics everything is possible, and this kind of twists that have happened these days. However, what I see, without pretentiousness now to interfere with the internal affairs of the CNS, but what I see is that the HNS has missed a great historical chance at this very moment that, with the support and help of our colleague, Anka Mrak Taritash, has significantly improved its political position in the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39708	Thank you. The answer to my colleague Bauk's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39709	Dear President, since this is the last line, it turns out that only members of the SDP club have replicated it, which is not usually in parliamentary practice, because I also called Mr Bacic, and the president of the HDZ Club. So, he called one political party, kept a minute of silence that none of her MPs had replicated it to me and told me I was wrong, so that's why I'm kind of glad and I can see that I've at least hit a point in this. Is it Mr. Greek, so what is it? It's a simple logic, better to be unpopular in power than popular in opposition, so stands their logic this time. And that's kind of the direction of that party that I said, so at the national level they'll be aware of, to see if they cross the threshold in the 3rd constituency, and in the local elections, where they have good mayors, no matter what the situation is at national level, they chose it, that's their path, and it's up to us that voters who voted for our list and who voted with their votes, and also the votes for their colleagues from the HNS, preferentially, made it possible for them to be in the Assembly and to pass those votes to HDZ, we tell them not to make a mistake again and that we didn't let them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39710	Thank you very much. I am finalising the debate on this proposal and I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. I would like to point out that with 75 votes in favour and 12 votes against this proposal, we have been accepted and moved to the next proposal of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, so I would like President Ante Sanader to explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39711	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. A resolution is proposed for members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament Marko Sladoljev and Zlatko Hasanbegović, and members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament Majda Burić and Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic are proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39712	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We have four individual debates reported, the first in line is the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39713	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. This is the only change in the committee that does not disrupt the established proportion of representatives and representatives of the position and opposition in the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Personally, I don't mind two proposed colleagues, crying for Mr. Hasanbegovic, either. However, several minutes ago HINA announced the news that HRAST conditioned the support of HDZ ministers in the Croatian Parliament on one condition, which is that the head of the curricula reform remains Mrs Culej, and HNS assures us all along this 2 days that their main reason for entering a coalition with HDZ is to save Croatia and save education and to implement the necessary reforms in the education system. Now, the masks are down. The masks are down. HNS will not contribute to education reforms in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is now quite clear that it was just such a hollow story for the Croatian public to save what little education it must have left when it decided to enter this, so I can't even say it in a coalition, because coalition is some kind of programme agreement that has certain goals for the country's progress, this is an equident example of political trade and anti-natural fornication. When we talk about anti-natural fornication, then I believe that all HNS voters know what I mean, but all HDZ voters know what I mean, why this collaboration is an anti-natural fornication. This committee will have a lot of work ahead of it, this committee has broken many spears around the future of the Republic of Croatia in the past 6 months, so we discussed in this committee whether the State Secretary who is discriminatory towards children with developmental difficulties and children members of the national minority will continue to be a person representing the Croatian state, so Plenkovic stood behind him, telling the Croatian public that he has no problem with his state secretary representing the state and him in a brutal manner insulting children, members of national minorities and children with developmental difficulties. So after that, we discussed the strong pressures on the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education where we asked the Minister of plagiarism to go, because as such he cannot run the system of science because one of the key postulates in the scientific system is actually scientific honesty. But Prime Minister Plenkovic didn't see the problem. He also stood firm for Minister Barisic saying he doesn't care if his minister is a plagiarizer. So then after that, we also discussed the topics of how strong the ministry was, in fact, by its actions or by its inaction, deepening the crisis at the Faculty of Philosophy, where this one horror for the first time turned against students, against democratic havens that should be led by such important institutions and also against employees at the university. Now it's spread out in a positive way in the last few days. But unfortunately, the ministry didn't help. Only in this entire procedure did the ministry escape. Well, we also discussed very often on this Committee how, in fact, the minister and his secretary of state had the resources of the state budget of Croatian taxpayers for scientific journals, for scientific events assigned to themselves and to their own, means to those institutions, associations where they sat in management bodies until yesterday. So now we've had our intention in fact, but it will come to this Committee's agenda, in fact a little talk about a staged and non-transparent contest in which the head of the expert task force, Mrs. Culej, who will remain and remain in that place, although she was elected to a completely non-transparent competition, in the staged competition and not known to date the conditions that were prescribed, has she satisfied those conditions. Of course it's not if we know she's a ministry employee. And what was written in these stories in that contest was not the condition that satisfied it. But she'll stay and she'll survive. It will survive because the HRAST will raise its hand to the ministers within hours is a condition that it remains and survives. And tragically, the most tragic message of the day, you know that I like to be so little pathetic. Now Mr. Zekanovic is probably going to replicate me crying again, moaning and being a drama queen. But in fact, the most terrible message of today and today's session of this session will be Plenkovic's message that in fact all sins, all that happened in the education system, all the damage done by Barisic, which embarrassed the education system, which embarrassed the Republic of Croatia, which reversed the education system, which did nothing in essence without doing anything is better that it did nothing than do harm for the education system. In fact, all he did or didn't do was not enough for Plenkovic to thank him for his services and to free us from this man. But you see, the political trade and the money that they say spins where the burgion won't. There is no morale, there is no ethics, there are no European standards that Mr Plenkovic should possess that would make him think about whether this man was worthy of being a minister. But now that it is necessary to provide political trade for the majority to survive and remain Croatian prime minister because chairs are obviously more important than anything. Now he's willing to give up Barisic to get how much? Five handles of those who claim their only reason to join the HDZ coalition is Croatia's improvement and the improvement of the education system. And on the other hand, under the table, they know very well what the condition of their coalition partner, HRAST, is to support their ministers, and that this reform will not go further, at least not in the way that is imagined, and that is to build a free education system, free thinking people, quality modern education. What the European Commission has said is that we are on the right track, rather than going back to the Middle Ages. And it will support HNS from this afternoon, and all their little children's stories are just another nail in the coffin of their electoral body, which is already disappointed by what they've done. Then they should have said look, we broke up, we saved ourselves from jail, we saved ourselves from the charges, we saved our heads, we saved our existence, we charged it, we didn't lie and cheat that you were doing all this for the sake of Croatian children. Well, Croatian peoples are mad at us with such a Croatian People's Party!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39714	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabini Vosovac, even though you're a little off the subject. Not a bit, but in the spirit of parliamentaryism and democracy, I have allowed you to speak. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Academyman Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39715	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I wanted to point out that like most SDP colleagues today, the Rules of Procedure is being abused and the indent of Article 238 is being violated. The colleague mostly spoke almost exclusively of a subject that was not subject to discussion, no subject of discussion that we are now talking about. But that's what SDP members do all the time this morning. By the way, just to remind her when she's already so sensitive to the Croatian language burgia is not a Croatian word, you've been correcting your colleague Culej. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39716	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Academyman, Željko Reiner. I've said it before, too, but here's because today we have a slightly more tolerated and intense approach to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, so I hope that some of us will be alluded to by our conscience and will realize that this does not contribute to the quality of the debate. We're moving on to replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39717	Thank you very much. The colleagues are now removing from the Education Committee of Mr Hasanbegovic and Sladoljev, a minor problem of Sladolev. However, it will be the parliamentary representatives of HDZ who led Mr Hasanbegovic's campaign from village to village literally as a little bear because a man is really popular in the electoral body. I am this witness and I am sorry that the mayor of Trilja did not stay here, the parliamentary representative, it was the sessions were, pictures, photos, selfies, gathering people, coming to those environments and I am a witness to it and I came here and I have no problem coming to any gathering. However, these people who have received political points and votes, leading him as a little bear, Mr. Hasanbegovic, now give him up and shake him off like a last tick, but it doesn't matter now your attitude is ideological towards man or not, but the fact is that they did it. That's a fact, I'm a witness to that, and I know how they acted using Mr. Hasanbegovic in the campaign and referring to him, so you're talking to the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, the entire constituency unit in which you fellow candidates were on the SDP list. I am a witness, and it would not be strange for me to be Mr. Batinić, Mr. Brkic, Mr. Zekanovic, Mr. Šipic, my Arrow, so it is no longer strange for Mr. Batinić to be the first to be at the cemetery, at the grave of the first president of the Republic, but it was denied, that detudmanization was so loud and clear, but Mesic is leading the strings, Bozinović is leading the strings, and Plenkovic is also free to be president of HNS, freely, freely, this Brussels concept of politicians who have absolutely no sovereignty, no foreignmanism, and has no firm hands to defend national and strategic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39718	I thank Mr. Mira Bull. I see that today many have become lawyers of various parties, rather than taking more care of their parties and parties, from which they came to the Croatian Parliament, rather than to run other people's business. Replication response, distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac. Excuse me, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39719	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Bulj, was injured by the Rules of Procedure of Article 238, stating that I had not been to the grave of First President Franjo Bulj. I was a colleague of Bull's. Just like, since there's no correction to the incorrect allegations, that institute makes me prove it, so it's not a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39720	I thank my colleague Batinić. Although you have now abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you could have answered it a little later, but well, I hope you fellow Bulj do not abuse the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39721	Infringement of Rules 238 of Article 212 and Article 2 i.e. paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: It is true that your colleague Batinić may have been, but not with his hand on his heart, and you were the main advocate of detudmanization, the loudest you with Vesna Pusic, was also most helpful by Ivo Sanader and Vladimir Seks, Bozinović as adviser to Mesic. Of course, you are only now under the same wing, you who wanted to detudge, not Croatia, but HDZ. Detuđmanisation started in HDZ, but at the beginning of the Homeland War, we all took the rifle in hand with Tudjman in principle and defended the country and the shadow from the partisan and the shadow of the Ustasha, thus continuing the detudmanisation of HDZ with the principle of Bozinović, Seks and Plenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39722	Thank you. I don't think the Rules of Procedure is hurt unless I see it's very painful to be in opposition. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Zekanovic. Here you go. Excuse me, excuse me. Please, Mr. Zekanovic, I'm sorry. It's my fault. We have an answer to the replica. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39723	My colleague Bulj, I do not agree with you that HDZ has given up Hasanbegovic, I think that Hasanbegovic gave up HDZ as well as you at some point in your life, but it is no wonder that HDZ has given up some of its members, not only members, but also the president have given up Sanader, Jadranka Kosor has given up, they have given up Karamarka and the only one they have not given up is Mr Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39724	Thank you. Good for us in Croatia when we have no other problems but to talk about this. Dear fellow Zekanovic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39725	The Honorable Miss Voter and the Honorable President. If there is no reason why he would support, another valid reason why he would support this government, then it is only possible for you, colleagues of Jovanovic, colleagues of Stazic, colleagues of Peđi Grbin, who would prefer that HRAST does not exist in the Assembly, to be somewhere on the sidelines, to be in opposition, because you are simply not able to accept that someone has a different worldview than you, that someone may have different attitudes from you. You're actually for... I'd say so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for my colleague Vican and my colleague Bulaj Culey, I don't know why you're even taking care of it anymore. You are in opposition, and whoever manages these commissions will agree on these in power. I personally don't mind Mr. Jokic coming into those committees and talking to him, having one... Unlike what you'd want with one mind, so the code is actually always an obvious one attitude, and that's just you're right, so there's no exchange of views, you'd never sit down with anyone at the table and talk specifically about the subject. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for curricula reform. I've never heard from either of you or your colleagues that I just saw before, and I mentioned that you were speaking to a metric, about the subject itself. Never, you were just talking about how to implement it, and I've never heard anything about content, so what's the big deal in that story at all? What's the matter with you? What is this content that you find controversial, if it is currently put through reform in the education system. If there wasn't this reform, you'd probably find some other reason to attack, talk about Ustashas, the Partisans, talk about home ready, and since that's not there right now, you've invented curricula reform and you've only been drinking on it. So keep drinking, because obviously you have nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39726	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. The esteemed colleague Varga raised some hands. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Answer, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39727	My friend Zekanovic, I don't even know what to say to you, that I'm advocating one-mindedness so that the HRAST doesn't exist. If I were to suit you right now, you'd feel like a real pain in the ass. And if you're watching "The Game of Thrones" then you know who Jon Snow and I are, the only thing I can tell you is that you're just like him, you just don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39728	My fellow Glasovac, I would really like to ask you not to go down to this level of communication in this honorable home because Croatian citizens are watching us and I don't think we're sending nice messages from this representative home and in this way I communicate and transfer to each other. Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39729	The Honorable Chairman. I was down at the club watching all the time, the violation of Rules of Procedure Article 232(2) you act more like Drago Ćosic than the chairman. After each replica of a representative, you have a need to add some kind of comment, explain something. You have no right to do so by warning you not to move on with this mode of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39730	I thank my esteemed colleague, Gromja. When you're in my shoes, then you'll be running the sessions as you think you should. I don't think I'm stepping down from holding a session based on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. If you have any objections and are not satisfied with my answer, you have business opportunities and you will get an adequate answer. Thank you very much. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39731	Also, Mr. President, you are in violation of Rule 232(2) of the Rules of Procedure if... the agenda topics of the President will warn him and will continue with the proceedings. But you really, Mladen Delic would be envious of you. In each line, every word of the parliamentary representative, you explain for three minutes the views of what the representative wanted to say. You may now be able to do this in Plenkovic's HDZ, but you must not do this to parliamentary representatives because this is Parliament and you must protect the dignity of every parliamentary representative to say what he thinks in the context of the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39732	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. You listened to my answer to Mr. Grumoja, the same procedure. Dear colleague Zekanovic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39733	.../Speakers speak at the same time./... violated Article 238 to belittle which is forbidden to demean and insult the president or other MPs. She told me if I didn't understand anything, I didn't tell her. I'm in the middle of dealing with opinions, and when you don't have arguments, then you just know how to put it down and go home, which is not okay, mate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39734	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. I've asked my colleague earlier to stay away from such behaviors. I hope we won't be talking at these levels in the future. Thank you. We move on to the next line, distinguished colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39735	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Glasovac, in your presentation you spoke of an ultimatum which we can now see on the portals of HRAST towards the future minister. If that's true and if the future minister really listens to that ultimatum, then we can immediately say that everything has failed. Therefore, the burial of the curriculal reform will continue, from marginal associations such as "Grozd", "HRAST", "In the name of the family", which under the patronage of the Church are trying to put their paws on the school and bring us back to the dark ages of the Middle Ages. Someone here said, there is no colleagues of Zekanovic that I would not want HRAST to be anywhere, so in all the elections the HRAST went out on its own, he broke down, so they didn't get a councilman, let alone a parliamentary representative, and here he is only by the mercy of the HDZ. If the ultimatum of one member of their coalition is greater than five future HNS votes that have been sold, and its sale of justice with curative reform, then all masks have fallen again. Therefore, I do not agree with my colleague Zekanovic, who told you, that I do not want HRAST to be anywhere, however, as they said at the protest, I want there to be as many HRAST schools in all Croatian schools as possible, but an oak parquet because he can serve only for that, and not for any content in schools. Therefore, it is very clear on our committee that will follow very quickly, we will ask this question, Professor. I think she should thank the Minister of Science and Education if one HRAST marginal group supported by a minor percentage of Croatian citizens determine what to do in her future Ministry of Science and Education will do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39736	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. The answer, dear colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39737	Yes, in this agreement in the HDZ-HNS Co-operation Platform in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, paragraph 5. “Econtinuation should be based on scientific knowledge, promotion of creativity, innovation, and critical and analytical thinking since the earliest age, because it builds a true knowledge society.” This can only be achieved by implementing a curricular reform as set up by the previous expert task force headed by Boris Jokic. If, we know who were opponents of such an approach, we know who wanted ideology in school, education that was not based on scientific knowledge, on fostering creativity and innovation, on critical-analytic thinking. We know who advocates the education of indoctrination, and now that one hand in the Parliament conditions that only one hand in the Parliament's education system and the future of our country depend on it. And now I don't really know in doubt when I read that in some way were the terms of Mrs. Divjak's proposal for a minister, with this, these are the two completely opposite worlds, it's the collision of worlds. We'll see on the board what her answers are to that and what she's going to do in that place but I don't think this is a good idea, something that could trigger the education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39738	Thank you. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39739	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Voter, I think your debate is actually seem to have touched me in the very core of things. Because look, if the main reason for all these changes we are discussing today, and even in committees, at the end of the day, is that our topic is specifically here, that my colleague Buric will replace his colleague, Hasanbegovic, and that she will replace his colleague, Sladoljev, so she is caused by what we are talking about. HNS told people about how caring our children's future are, how they practically bear sacrifice on the altar of the homeland, burning themselves, and we actually see that here, little by little, step by step, compromises are done and right in this area. And this little hand of yours you mentioned, I don't think it's, I'm not really sure, I would now, I'd be wrong about my soul, but I think other than my colleague Zekanovic has another colleague who's from HRAST. I don't know. It's a little harder to remember them. But the point is, I think you're absolutely on the right track. So if the agreement states that, it must be based on scientific knowledge, that they, from HRAST and there are those who are, for example, against vaccination, how they will be set up when children are to be taught in schools that vaccination is a matter based on scientific knowledge. Among them are those who resist other scientific knowledge. So even if we want those two handles, such two handles condition who will lead the process of curricular reform, so at the end of the day it simply raises the question of where we're going to go in this way, so you don't know which party is actually smaller, HRAST or HNS here, which is, in particular, the people who dictate the curriculative reform and its future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39740	I thank my colleague Glavasevic for the replica. And the answer to my distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39741	Yes, my colleague Glavasevic, that's why I said in my opening statement that I think this coalition is an anti-natural fornication. Because it's just a two-world collision, I'm not going to say ideological worlds but totally other concepts. So just remember what my colleague Vrdoljak has been saying here for the last three months. Well, he was in charge, I'm not going to say loudest but the loudest thing when it comes to curriculative reform, and now we're actually coming into a situation that, thanks to him, will become largely the main stumbling block of the exact same things that his colleague Vrdoljak has been saying all this time and what he warned about. Now, why this coalition happened, we can discuss it now, now, it's ultimately irrelevant. The point is, is whether it's something that's happened here in the last seven days or it's something that's been arranged long, long before, nothing is random. And it's probably not by chance that all the defacto personnel left by the previous government in all state-owned enterprises except HEP and some, I don't know how much it can actually be, in fact, random and how much we need to be surprised at some processes that are now happening in front of our eyes and everything when we put together a little mosaic suggests that far from the eyes of the public they've been going on for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39742	I thank my esteemed colleague, Voter, for your reply. Next replica, dear colleague Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39743	Dear Vice President, allow me a little criticism to direct you. I don't mind that, as colleagues Bulj and Grmoja have said, that you're doing after every replica, I don't mind you saying, that you have the right to be like Draga Cosic, Oliver Mlakar, but what I would criticise is that you can't, what you said earlier, you can't defend us from talking about other parties. We're here to talk about the topic, the topic is the coalition that you're most likely to form today, which you're going to vote on. So those statements of yours that we're all talking about other parties today, that we should take care of our parties, you have no right to do that. We are talking about what and those parties we want in the Croatian Parliament. Now let me just rephrase my short colleague the Voter. Comrade Voter, you spoke of your discussion of the various reasons why this coalition occurred. You've also mentioned some various charges and a lot of other things that might be linked to it. Time will show what's true, what's the real reason. But what's crucial in this whole story is that this is the nail, the last nail in the HNS coffin. That's what you said. And I believe that this is the end of the CNS, that these are their last ticks. And that tricking voters like this will cost them a lot, a lot of money. Imagine they even led to the fact that, a colleague of Anku Mrak Taritas who was a candidate for the mayor of Zagreb to destroy her chance for victory by those various Twitters of Mr. Vrdoljak. So here's nothing weird about them. What I must mention is that the same SDP in Varazdin County will... HNS and HNS behavior only strengthen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39744	I thank my colleagues, Habek. I'd just mention if I hadn't banned anyone from speaking, I was just appealing to stick to the subject. And also do not deny me the right to speak if you have the right. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Habek, yes, time will show what's going on behind the hill, how this will reflect on the HNS, frankly I'm not too interested in it, these are all responsible people, I guess they know what they're doing and they're willing to deal with the consequences of their actions. The SDP is going to make a profit through that intruder, even though at this point it really is this really, really, really irrelevant. I'm just curious about how the HNS and the HNS will closely follow it, under the increase, will blow on the neck not to the HDZ but to the HNS, how the HNS will ensure that the curricula reform continues, which is why they have entered the government of the Republic of Croatia because it is their only motive to ensure a better future for our children. That's what I'm very interested in, that's what I'm not going to say, but it's the most important thing in this whole story, and we see how things change already today, what some circumstances are changing, and that's what I'm just interested in, that mission of the CNS, and that's what I'm going to judge them by, in detail, in detail. So far they've turned out to be con men, actually, and now we're going to see this, what kind of con men they really are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39746	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac for this answer. He would once again appeal to rhetoric and the choice of words we address in the Croatian Parliament. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Željko Jovanovic here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39747	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing in this section the selection of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. Very interesting. So far, no one's looked back on it but actually this appointment shows how serious HNS thinks. He actually shows that their vice president, since for social activities, understands nothing. You have seen today that in a coalition agreement, no word mentions health, no word mentions culture and will be in charge of social activities. Poor Professor Divjak if he will watch her back in her work where she has made it clear that her goal is a quality curricula reform based on the strategy of education, science and technology. Why would I think that? Well, dear colleagues and colleagues, every document you have regarding education to attend a plenary session has to be passed through the Education Committee. I'm asking you how many members of the HNS will be sitting on the Education Committee in the coming period? Zero. Zero. It's HNS. It's their concern for curricula reform and education. They were unable to cope with at least one member sitting on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here's my colleague Mesic, how if he didn't have a word about culture, he might say the same thing. So this shows how superficially all of this has been done with only one goal, providing a chair. And that chair, Stromara. The loser of the election, who lost his election, cheated on voters and ended up in the post of Deputy Prime Minister, for social activities, and doesn't care about these first negotiations, not about education, not about culture, not about health. Therefore, it is clear that it is a big game in which, unfortunately, Croatian education, Croatian science, culture, health care, as it will be controlled by the Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Štromar. He could still speak, but I think this fact itself in this debate is the most important, most important and clear message to the extent that the CNS is commercially, unprepared for this business, hiding in a curriculative reform as a simple fig leaf that hides their commercial ambitions. They don't care about Croatia. And by completing this debate, Mr. Vice President, I will repeat what I have repeated 1,000 times in this assembly, give more to select and external members of the board of the Croatian Parliament, it has been a shame since the Assembly has been established a tender, we have no external members, it is especially important for the council that I lead, the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the strategy to combat corruption because we could talk a lot about wholesale procedures in this assembly, and we can't do that why we don't have outside members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39748	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. I agree with you on these last remarks and I thank you and I will be busy at the first next representation as regards the appointment of external members, since the procedure has been carried out, the competition is over. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And my colleague Jovanovic, I don't know why you're surprised that the HNS doesn't have any members or members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I don't know why we're even surprised that they didn't even ask for it, and they could have changed the Anko Mrak here, so there's HNS lost, and not only her, he lost, it seems to me 2 seats of the board president, but he didn't ask for compensation on the Committee for education, science and culture, although it's the curical reform and education the only reason why HNS went into coalition with HDZ because they only want to do what they really want and why they decided to do it, to step away from all the ideals and from all those principles that have been advocated for years from Savka and beyond, in fact, the only reason that they've forgotten that in the key working body in the Croatian assembly, and they should have at least one of their own people who could be able to stop it, but to control it all the politics here, because of Croatia, they wanted to have so much. Anti-natural fornication is an eclectic example of the most brutal political trade not to say corruption, I have no proof of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39750	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voicer. Answer, distinguished colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39751	That without the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, it is truly amazing that they did not realize at all how the acts were adopted in this House, and that without the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, they had no effect on preparing quality documents before they came to the plenary session, and we know to what extent Minister Barisic was unfortunately misusing our committee through his HDZ representatives in the adoption of a whole series of laws concerning the Law on Science, Interest Lobis at the Faculty of Philosophy, a Croatian qualification framework which was damaged by students of professional studies and the implementation of the clericisation of curricular reform, which was clearly the goal and which is now covered by the care of education, and which is now guessing with this CROST ultimatum. Without people in the Assembly Committee on Education and Science, the HNS has absolutely no tools that can help to implement everything that is prof. The savage imagined in his idea of a better work of the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39752	Thank you for your response to my colleague Jovanovic. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39753	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. colleague Jovanovic, not just what you just said and stated, not just what was said by her colleague, Glasovac. Look, HRAST has now come out with a statement saying this, that he will support the minister because Diana Vican has been negotiated by the rest of Jasminka's expert task force, i.e. Jasminka Buljan Culej, they misrepresented her last name in a statement and Diana Vican remains head of the expert commission and Slezak remains secretary of state. Let me know if the minister doesn't have the right to choose her most senior associates, I mean, what are we talking about here? Hello, people! I mean, that fig leaf is way too mild a metaphor for that. So, the curriculative reform with the CNS that tries to sell it to its citizens as repeats its self-incineration on the altar of the Homeland. So with HNS or without HNS, there remains clerical reform, not curical, and that pyre on which the HNS will be burned is imposed as we see here with these oak boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39754	I thank my colleague Glavasevic for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39755	A colleague of Glavasevic, it may be good that this debate went this way and that there is a debate on committees where Professor Divjak will also be able to see what she can count on in the coming period if she really becomes a minister. And whether what she wants, since Professor Divjak was an active participant in the protest of citizens, she sided with the citizens. And their three demands were for Barisic to leave, to leave Vican and to re-implement the election process of members of the expert working group for curricular reform. So these are the minimum conditions that must be met if professor support is to be given. Divjak is a minister of education and science.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39756	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. The next is a replica of Honorable colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39757	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jovanovic, you mentioned that the HNS suffered a major and severe defeat in the Varazdin County by a former member of the HNS. However, I would just like to update this data that he suffered an even worse defeat in Varazdin where he had a mayor who didn't dare go to the polls again. So he didn't dare go to the elections again that he probably would have gone even worse than Mr Baldazar in Split because in four years, the HNS authorities in Varazdin became recognizable by the fact that there are thousands of tons of garbage being thrown into the meadow at the entrance to the city. If you've ever been to Varazdin, you could have seen them very easily. A city where, in four years' time, progress was made by a pair of eggs. A city that allegedly wants to run education and social activities, which did not create the conditions to, say, set up there and the University of the North that went to Koprivnica. So, one complete incompetence of these city authorities and no wonder that Mr. Chehok, regardless of being burdened with a series of indictments, won very easily with as much as 70% of the votes, and he won in a way that literally gathered people off the street, put together lists with a few of his friends, achieved a precisely grand victory. In view of this situation, we see that the Varazdin organization, the Varazdin County of HNS has absolutely no power and that it will actually fight in the next elections to cross the threshold, which is only if they go to coalition with HRAST because Mr. Ilcic is from Varazdin. Here I believe it will be very easy to agree so perhaps Mrs. Divjak and Mr. Ilcic will make the next list for the town of Varazdin which will successfully cross the threshold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39758	I thank Mr. Bunjec for the replica. Answer, distinguished colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39759	Well, Comrade Bunjac, you have once again confirmed all the nonsense of this procedure by your colleagues from the CNS. So it's no problem post election coalition and enter the government as it did MOST twice. But the CNS entered this assembly thanks to the People's Coalition, which in its programme had everything but the HDZ coalition. So, the con voter I don't know in which way they can even look at the voters who gave them the vote. They will now be in the government, and no voter who voted for them has given them the mandate to join the HDZ coalition. That's embarrassing. It's a voter scam and it's actually an additional argument for citizens not to go to the polls. The turnout will be getting smaller and smaller and then maybe the marginals like HRAST who would never have entered the assembly if he hadn't been on HDZ's list to sell our brains and want to take over schools with their nadal ideas. And it is even more absurd that the HRAST that entered the HDZ list and without HDZ would not be in the assembly setting the conditions. They have to fit in their ears and shut up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39760	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. We're not sticking to the subject again, but in today's tone. Let's move forward with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39761	Well, I'm very sorry, Mr. Jovanovic, that you really have to insult someone in every line of yours. I don't know why that is. Otherwise, the point of 238 is to insult fellow MPs. I don't understand why it's like that, what you need. So be a little man, try your metrics, you can see that you hate HRAST, that you hate Christians, that you hate that worldview, but try to control yourself a little bit. I know you're not a Christian, so I can't say pray, but I just don't know, maybe take a pill or something. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39762	My colleague Zekanovic, you did not use the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you replicated the replication of the replica, so I ask you not to abuse future violations of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39763	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238, although you have already warned a colleague, I think it is unacceptable for a colleague to insult me in this way, mentioning that I hate Christians. Do you have a meter? How did you measure that I hate Christians and how much? Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39764	Thank you. We've already said everything. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39765	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate has gone some other way, and I'm sorry we're not talking about that right rate, actually what it's about when we're talking about the HDZ and HNS marriage. I am extremely sad today, because I will testify on a sad day for Croatia, I am not angry but I am sad. And I'm sad because I'm going to testify the day when the democracy we believed in and that we're full of mouths about Croatia fell to very low branches. There are not many of us here in the Parliament, but today we will witness the example of the implementation of the values we want in Croatia and we do not implement them, which are transparency, honesty, and above all moral treatment. And here today, we testify that there is no such thing and that in this marriage, HDZ and HNS, everything that is fundamental values and democracy in Croatia has been trampled. And we Parliamentarians should be an example of others, an example of how we should treat fundamental values, and I wonder, gentlemen, what some of us here in the House have turned into. To chair hunters, to sell mandates. Is that what the citizens are watching and what they see here in the Parliament. And how much more can we expect citizens to trust us, after what's going on in the Parliament today? I'm sad because sitting in this House, I'm going to testify to the betrayal of our constituents. I will face unscrupulous action in order to secure power. I will bear witness to the shameless conduct of some of our MPs who neglect the will of their voters and turn politics into what we would not want into something disgusting, something we should not deal with. And that's what's going to come out like a picture after today or tonight's overkill. This will turn our society and thus Croatia into a country, I can say political corruption, not only political trade, but also political corruption. And after today, it will be a bit hypocritical to listen to our diameter around us saying that the Croatian country is desirable for life, and that Croatia is inhabited by democracy and that Croatia lives well. The diameter initiated all these changes with a desire, to clearly preserve power, but the question was whether it preserved face and denied all the values on which our society should rest and what was worst, no one felt ashamed or felt bad about it. But despite this blizzard we are about to witness today, I want to send a message to the citizens who are watching us today, who are witnessing what was not their will and who are concerned about everything that will expose us to HDZ and HNS in the next period. It is necessary to make it very clear to the citizens, we who do not want to participate in this predication, in this circus that we should not lose faith in democracy, because there are still politicians who believe in values and who were dreamt about by all those who fought for this Croatia and who created this Croatia. And what I'm saying is, we're going to fight all together so this never happens in the House again, and what happened is the betrayal of voters, and it's shameful, immoral, and the citizens won't forgive the colleagues of the HNS who count on it to give the citizens forget about it. He won't forget this shame and I hope this never happens in the Croatian Parliament again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39766	I thank Mr. Mrsic. We have one replica, dear colleague Glavasavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrsic, you are absolutely right about this last act and with no amount of irony here we should say that the HNS, who has insisted on that syntagmic titanic government, if we remember. By entering that titanic government, which in itself is ironic and we see here, I'm reading now in the Evening List that their members are mass printing has actually become a titanic party. So, you're absolutely right when you say that citizens won't forgive it because, I believe that now these people are wondering, how, why this is happening now, so normally, here in Britain, liberal Democrats have supported it at some point in time, and in the Netherlands, the coalition of democratic liberals is a normal thing, but look at the light of these things that we've read indifference that someone from the HNS in 1861 is in the Committee on Education until Schlezak remains a state secretary and also the minister doesn't choose co-workers, that nothing in the curative reform has ever been questioned in those countries, nor have the programmes of such cooperation that the country and education led forward. That's not the case here, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39768	I thank my esteemed colleague. Answer, dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39769	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you, fellow Glavasevic, because what is happening today is I can say the bottom, not democracy, but the bottom of political life and political corruption and political trade. And hiding behind the fact that it's good for the state, that state interests are above all else and that there was an offer on the table that couldn't be rejected is just one fig leaf to hide what's behind this, and that's the call of the chair, the call of the government, the call of everything that goes next to the ministerial posts, but not only to the ministerial posts, but also to the places of state secretaries, directors of various companies, etc., etc. What is the basic question, what do citizens have of that, what do citizens have of marriage between HDZ and HNS? What's the benefit for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? The benefits are gone, the only benefits are members of the CNS and HDZ, and that's the only benefit that's made of this over-excess. And citizens will make it very clear in the next elections that what it was for them, which meant marriage between HDZ and HNS, whether it was useful for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, clearly, there was no and will be no use for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39770	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of this debate, I would like to say that I believe that all my colleagues and colleagues will actually support this proposed change in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Earlier, it was said that the change was related to parliamentary majority representatives, so both counterpart Hasanbegovic and counterpart Sladolev represented a parliamentary majority in the committee. In that sense, colleagues Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic and counterpart Buric come to say so from the same vessel. This is not the case with other committees, and we believe that this should be agreed on in some way. These committees have changed the proportion of the majority and the minority in the Parliament, so that's something we need to talk about. But to return to the Committee on Science, Education and Culture. In view of this, we've been talking about this for a very long time, and in some ways I have the need to repeat it because it's really important, so why does the CNS as someone who is now part of the majority not insist that their representatives if they really care that one of these conditions for support and entry into their Titanic government was that they could lead the process of curricular reform? Why aren't any of them sitting on this board? So there is a clean situation, they are part of the parliamentary majority, they could have sought a place, so at least one of them should have at least sat down as a member or a member of that committee so that they could know and participate in this Croatian people's, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to discuss all relevant topics related to education. Besides, she's going to have a minister from her quota, wouldn't it be good if someone on that committee could be an accomplice or a spokeswoman to that minister for things that, for example, just as this committee is a parent to that ministry, that at least one of them could communicate with their minister? So that's the first thing I have to admit to getting my eyebrow up. However, things are much clearer now that we see, here we see a very dynamic situation so in the news we read, colleague Sever says that she asked Mr. Stromar why he said about this statement to HRAST that he had not heard of him and he had to go to ask Mr. Plenkovic what the story of Mr. Schlezak being a state secretary, what was the story about Buljan, Culej staying in his place and that Diana Vican would remain in his place, and that was the conditions as they were told to support the government. Maybe it would be too much to say that here someone is lying, that's something you shouldn't say, it's not correct, but then perhaps in the spirit of a HDZ senior you should say that if someone isn't lying then certainly not telling the truth. I mean, we just don't know here why Mr. Stromar isn't informed of the things that HRAST is about, so another coalition partner is making statements. I must admit that even if I tried to view this as a completely neutral observer, and I am not a neutral observer because I really care about these things, here it is about the future of all our children and the question is some future of Croatia after all. If the entire former minister's infrastructure remains on its way out, all his men remain, what has actually changed? So what effect can we expect that this new minister will have on education if there is not one single person on the parent board who is from her quota or from her party, if she is unable to choose her co-workers alone, but is forced by the party, and she is probably one of the few who has a smaller rating than hers, if she can't change people who should lead the curricula reform, what exactly did we achieve? I told my colleague Mrsic in one of the replicas, actually in this last one I mentioned liberal Democrats and Tories in Britain, and I mentioned another example from the Netherlands. So even in those situations, what happened after that that liberal Democrats actually failed, in the next election, citizens punished them. There's a similar situation in the Netherlands. In fact, to the extent that it reminds me of the situation when Margaret Thatcher told those same liberal Democrats very nicely that they were like dead parrots. Namely, some kind of bird was their logo back then, so it's a slightly different situation, but that's what we're talking about. So, the HNS just didn't set up tight here. We cannot trust, trust or vote in your minister in a few hours when we see that you have in no way ensured that the things you promised Croatian citizens and citizens and us here in this House are being implemented. I don't plan on stepping on you to put it that way, I don't plan on going home, but you have to, I'm sure, we've been sitting there, we've been allies until recently, 23 years HNS and SDP have been working together. We developed some kind of relationship, it was problematic, very often, not always simple, but we know how we work. So I know that you can see that what you're doing right now is wrong, so the HRAST is throwing out statements that clearly show that they have the support of the Prime Minister, that your minister is not worth a piss bomb in the government of the Republic of Croatia, or a searing bomb. You know better than that. You know politics, serious politics don't work that way. Let's get back to the board, me and my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, and my colleague Buric, I have an extremely high opinion. So these are people that I have no doubt at all that will be great at representing the government's views of their party and in some ways it is, even though it was said here today that these are some technical things, it's never really, ever, it's never technical things. Every decision and every appointment is at the end of the day a matter of politics and not techniques and so on. You should have, not for credibility, because it wasn't your slogan, it wasn't what you were going out with, the last one. You know what you've been through and who you've been going out with in the last election and the trust that part of the citizens you've won for the mandates that brought you here. They will represent their views. And where is HNS on that board? That's how much I have to tell you, that's how much I have to ask you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39772	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39773	A fellow Glavasevic is a rewarding question and that is how many future Minister Divjak will be the person who will succeed in carrying out the curricula reform and how much will she be independent? And do you think that she in the Committee on Education will rely on us who are the opposition because it is the only lever that will allow for a curricular reform to be carried out. It's another proof of the day we came in, it's another proof of what we've done here in the Parliament, where citizens just don't trust us anymore, citizens see us here in the Parliament as people who agree, trade chairs and that we, that it's all dressed up with that now the curricula reform is going to be carried out. And obviously, both the HNS and the Minister Divjak have shown very clear, limited, very clear parameters, which is if it's not going to be according to what we think in HDZ then you're not going to do what you're supposed to do. It will be interesting on the Committee to hear the answers from the minister whether they will replace the current people who have led the curriculative reform and put on the lead, for example, Mr Jokic, who is the only competent man to carry out such a demanding reform. It will also be a test of whether we are responsible in this House, it will also be a test for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia where we can either show that we are different and that in Croatia we can act differently and that this Parliament can be different than it is now and that the prime minister who boasts that it is nice to live in Croatia and does everything the opposite of that and when we talk about democracy in the Assembly then she fell to the lowest limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39774	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for the replica. And the answer of the esteemed colleague Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39775	Comrade Mrssic, you're absolutely right. And who should a new minister who's world-class and we know that we're close to each other looking for support in a committee where there's no one from the HNS, so he can only look for us. So this is the person who, on the one hand, was on all the protests, who, as counterpart Jovanovic said, insisted on changing all those things that HRAST said in his statement that he had ensured the prime minister's support not to change. Well, of course, they won't ask for the support of counterpart Buric and colleagues Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, they won't, they will seek our support. And you know what else is? You've actually touched a very good question here. It's not just politics, it's about other things. A colleague, i.e. a candidate for minister, was anti-candidate to Mr Boras when he applied to be the university's rector in Zagreb. What happens if this person, and I trust that he will, touches in all those private interests that are frozen, also spoken of by his colleague, what kind of sanctions and reactions will they get when they touch those things? And here you should say, corruption at universities isn't a new phenomenon, and now maybe there's more to it than the Times of Action Index. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39776	I thank my colleague Glavasevic for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic reported. He's gone. Next to the line, distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39777	I'm so sorry he doesn't have any colleagues, Zekanovic. Comrade Glavasevic, it is not exactly your thesis that Mrs Divjak should come to the ministry where the same infrastructure remains. You see, some things change, but HRAST's influence remains. I'm not going into the reasons why she left the ministry right now, but I'm personally sorry that she left the ministry, I think she's quite moderate regardless of this conservative commitment, that she's worth it and that she understood the importance of the curricula reform, I hope she doesn't have a problem with what I'm praising her. But this HRAST has remained, so Schlezak remains, all the key associates remain, so it appears that, something has been arranged here, has seriously agreed between the HDZ and the Croatian Ministry of Education to ensure the impact of the Croatian Ministry of Education. Less in everything else. Now, what happened to HNS in the meantime, as their future minister made statements that she supported the protest held in Zagreb a few days ago, where very clearly defined the conditions expected and requested by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, came in a position to publicly declare that she wanted to continue the curricula reform in the way the European Commission gave the green light, in the way it was set up and has the conditions of human resources, that the competition that was set up, which was not conducted in accordance with the regulations in which Mrs Culej was elected, was repeated. However, we can see that none of this will be because HRAST has conditioned his support for something else. It'll be interesting on the Education Committee in a few hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39778	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, the Replicator. The answer of the esteemed colleague Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39779	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before the start of my colleague Zekanovic. What can I say to you, "La late Marko is coming to Kosovo." As for you colleagues, Voter and your comments on a few of this stuff I want to show myself. First of all, fellow Travelers welcome amongst us, I can agree that I am actually sorry that you didn't stay in that ministry, I believe you know that I am to the extent possible, that someone on this side of the assembly is your fan, I really am. But in any case, it would be much better if the Ministry of Education had fewer HRAST. I mean, there's no mistake. So, this kind of cool arrangements we're looking at right now, so we don't know who made the deal with, so Štromar has to go right away to ask Plenkovic, I mean, it's total chaos. I mean, at the end of this, to be clear, I'm laughing right now because I think this really has led to absurdity, but it's not really funny. Because at the end of this chaos, in the end, the victims are children and young people who are educated, not only young, but we also have lifelong education, we have old people. People of all ages who are educated. So if people like these HRASTs at the Ministry of Education are conducting an orchestra, I mean, it's not 21st century education, it's not that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39780	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic for his reply. That first part of the answer you didn't need, that irony, towards your colleague because you didn't answer it, but you said something that was inappropriate, but my God. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39781	Article 238, that means he's insulting again, but here's thank you for the commercial, and repeat more HRAST 1,000 times today, good for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39782	I thank Mr. Zekanovic. I told an esteemed colleague before you, so I don't think he needs any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Next to the replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39783	Thank you. My colleague Glavasevic, well, yes, this coalition is full of unscrupulous things, for example. as you have noticed the coalition of HRAST and HNS in the same government, the coalition of Glavas and Pupovac, means it is a coalition that has basically no principles, but what's interesting when the HNS is talking about human rights. Now she's sent me a woman, I'll read it. That message is very important. I'm the one who published it. She says this way, “I just got cut off by electricity. Friday afternoon, a single mother with a child. I begged them to come Monday while I saw with Elektro what was done. They didn't want to. I'm out of my mind. Help with some advice, comma, somehow please, point. Thank you." So, is the right for citizens to have electricity, to have water, to have a roof over their heads, are these human rights and civilizational norms and values for which the HNS will fight in this government? I see he won't, says Mr. Stromart, that he'll walk on gay parades. Mr. Stromar, he's being accused of prostitution of politics, I don't think he's walking around gay parades to show his credibility but only one act and actually cynicism. And if he cared about minority rights, he wouldn't be involved in this government where he participates, and he wouldn't be a minority. The minority had any sense and brains would have said a long time ago this is a crazy story, we in this Frankenstein, because this is a political Frankenstein, which consists of parts of different electoral bodies, opposing, so I don't know the Pupovac voters and the HRAST voters and the HNS voters and the Glavas' voters, so it's trying incompatibly to merge into one whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39784	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39785	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pernar, first of all, I'm gonna have to fix you up a little bit. It's not a gay parade. It's Zagreb Pride. It's a pride parade. And I'm glad you brought it up in the context of the CNS, because look. The CNS is now going into a coalition with those people who wouldn't date tomorrow, and tomorrow we're going to walk, it's an extraordinary honor to walk with my colleagues and colleagues from the party. They'd rather die than walk in that parade of pride, because it's not pride for them, it's shame. Such people, they will support such people in education, what we are actually talking about here in this committee and in other areas. So, on human rights, I don't know if there's one place in their agreement that's mentioned, I'm not going to enter all the areas of these, but areas of human rights, some of the panels were questionable, how much memory I serve. But here, I'm glad you touched this because the HNS and HNS leadership always proudly walked in. I'm curious about what's going to change here. Will the new education minister show up there tomorrow, take her state secretary. No, I don't think so, they walked in other races. But in processes that weren't tied to giving rights and equalising rights, but to seizing rights, to reducing, to limiting. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39786	I also thank the individual debate, colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39787	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we are discussing the resolution of MPs Hasanbegovic and Sladoljev. I would go to Hasanbegovic, because by following in the elections of really this man here they walked wherever they came to the gatherings, to bring them votes, so here, in Trilj was a nonstop. In Sinj all the time. In the entire constituency, that you would now give it up very simply. They give up a man very simply. That's not a problem for them, and of course when the coalition's now partner is a trade option, of course, which protects the interests of its own, and there's no interest in education, because there's no value that they share, nor have they thought about those values, because when we look at how different they are, I'm going to repeat it once more and whether it's premiseable to be together on a gay parade, all those people from HNS and HDZ. Or to worship the biggest detudmanizers, who have detudmanised Croatia, first in HDZ with Ivo Sanader and Brussels Plenkovic, but HNS was the most reputable detudmanizer of the Republic of Croatia and it is clear to every man. I am not disappointed, but it is simply in one hand and glad that masks have fallen, that there is no ideology here, yet the Croatian man, the Croatian defender, together 91's, regardless of the Ustashas, partisans, origins defended the Republic, and here is exclusively clientelism, corruption and that is the work of some companies that have stayed behind and therefore agreed to this coalition. That's the facts. It's unimaginable to me how he's going to explain this right now, and I'm just mentioning the representative of Šipic in Trilj who brought Hasanbegovic to desert gatherings, free speeches, I can't even figure out what he's going to tell the people, that precisely, those who have detudmanized without these calls... where many people are gathering, and you are gathering priests to support your candidates, as you will now explain, how you gave up this Hasanbegovic, here's how you'll explain it, for example. in these rural areas, where I live, that you gave up, not only him, but you and Bozinović, Mesic and the main man gave up Tudjman, Tudjman's ideas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the main political option of the HNS, which is along with Mesic, Bozinovic and others at the time, which was his advisers, has declared detudmanisation. I repeat again, with all the mistakes Tudjman had, plus and minuses, we together in the Homeland War were shoulder to shoulder, defending the Republic of Croatia and the sons of Ustasha and the sons of Partisans. It's a fact and it's undeniable. And fellow Batinic, he wasn't exactly a proponent of Tudjman. It is difficult to see him now that he will put his hand on the hearts, possibly, possibly, so it is possible that he will come to Trilj before Sinjska Alka, so there will be a gay parade in Trilj co-worker Šipic and counterpart Batinic. What a reform of education it will be. Trade reform of education, how to trade, how to send yours to HEP, because more have members, less members than... These are facts and indeed give up a man in this way that they received votes in the constituency where I come from is a disaster, a disaster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so, here are the peoples, it's good that this is burned to the end, there's Most, there's been a fall of masks and some HDZ leads the detudmanizers Bozinović, adviser Mesic, Plenkovic, who thought he would be in HNS in 2011, and it's natural, or in HDZ, together with you, colleague Jandroković 92' at the Foreign Ministry, with Zoran Milanović, of course, my colleague Vaso Brkić, the Brussels Zoka, I don't know how to describe Mr Plenkovic, but it's a pity to give up your founder and first president Dr Tudjman's RH, that with the biggest detudjemanizers you've done so easily before. You were also the Sanader God. The God who walks the earth, the emperor, 10,000 people supported him, 10,000 unanimously, the Adriatic Kosor 10,000 people unanimously, Karamarko. Mr. Jandrokovic, it was really touching how you were with him, and even more touching as you are with Mr. Plenkovic, do not give up what he created, which founded the state. The most important thing for me is for the people to see at last and for the people to hear, to recognize that deceptions and lies are in election campaigns when they walk the streets of that political elite and when even in the Church they introduce them to how much more believers they are than all of us, only for the people to see them, for those reasons alone. We have thousands of examples, thousands of evidence, and we can talk about it. I am smitten by these things in Sinj, and Alka and Ms. Sinjska are... pre-election campaign, so imagine the Knight's Alkar society the president gives in the campaign one sacred, one tradition of synthetic heritage and Croatian, UNESCO to give one candidate from Solin, no matter how much I should not be given in Sinj, give support that he will fight so much for the development of Sinj and the Cetin region, he absolutely did not raise his hand here which is why I did not support the budget. It's a Knight's Alkarian society that has trampled on me, trampled on when Gotovina was being persecuted, and I don't feel any jealousy here, but I'm glad this happened, and I'm glad that Mr. Miljan Brkić, the gentleman from HNS, Mr. Šipić and everyone else can go to gay parades together, can go to Tudjman and put the crowns at his heart, really interesting. And Hasnabegovic for giving up doesn't matter. There, I am truly sorry that you give up the idea on which the Croatian state was founded for which many people in HDZ and not only imprisoned but lost their lives for an independent Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39788	Thank you very much. That's how the election winner speaks. Why? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39789	238. You're the President of the Parliament. You haven't called in a word. I'm proud of 62,000 votes, you ran away from the confrontation, you dated Plenkovic in every village, every minister, you blocked the cities, you couldn't get as many of you as there were. I got 62,000 votes in one van, I'm proud, I'm proud, and the people of Dalmatia wake up, and you get less votes than I do in the village, and you're the president of the Parliament. You are an ordinary servant to Sanader, Karamark, Kosoricin and now Plenkovic, with 200 votes, you are the president of the Parliament. So are you ashamed to tell me that I got 11,000 votes, and for Mayor 62. You run against me...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39790	I congratulate you on the excellent election result, look at the little election results, not only of these but also of the past, so you'll see how much someone got the preferential votes because people do different jobs in the parties during the election process, but once again congratulations, it was a great result and I'm glad you won as every time. Now we move on to replicas. Here you go, Comrade Šipić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39791	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course we've been fed up all day with all the big speeches here, individual debates, club debates. One sentence here is very important, when you lose and then you need to be big. We've heard so many frustrated performances today, frustrating performances that detect so much anxiety, so much disappointment with themselves and with their results, and then they don't get over anything, and then they spit insults, and then they spit false data, false information. Mr. Bulj, we're from the same neighborhood, a house with drinks, as we would say in Dalmatia, but we have a different approach and a different attitude. We have different examples, we have different results and in different ways we fight for the interests of our end. I will not boast of the results, but I will just tell you, Mr Hasanbegovic, who is as a historian and former party colleague, I appreciate extremely, which has nothing to do with this, I will vote exactly the way we should vote, when we are, exactly how we should vote, so he was never in Trilj just going to correct you as party leader and on behalf of the party never at any meeting. He was at the presentation of the book and film "Holy Cave" and nothing else. And you continue to insult and present false information, especially to mention me neither guilty nor due to a fellow bush, it's a little lower, and at that level I won't be given intruding, at that level I won't be given intruding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39792	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39793	Well, of course, Šipić said without a single argument that you were talking about any insult, I was just asking you if you were going to share the values of the CNS, if you were going to go to the gay parade, if you were to detudge what they were eclatively all along. How are you going to explain that? Well, if you had brought Hasanbegovic to Trilj before the parliamentary elections, they were photographed, painted with the entire HDZ. And as for the election results themselves, no less or less, I won in the 9th constituency twice as much as you or any other candidate to run against you, surely the people would know how to judge. And if it wasn't for party machinery and a little bit of ear, they wouldn't have gotten that either, so you know that, so you ran to me in some old times to get some party pages and so, so I know you. But we will see how you will vote now in the case of Hasanbegovic, I am alive interested and Mr Miro Kovac is here. He's also from the 9th constituency, he was excited, full of national consciousness, full of pride, charge, never gay parade, never that. We'll see about that. And I expect you, as a theologian, to be the first down in Trill in the Cetina region to be just one gay parade with a fellow Batinić to lead, so you can also be Mr. Oparu, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39794	The winners should be congratulated. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39795	Vice President of the Parliament. My colleague Bulj, I don't know, I only see here that my colleague Šipic is nervous, I don't see any anxiety on our part. I have only seen the questions that you are asking here that my colleague Šipic was very upset with. The fact is that two BBBs are now being replaced from this committee, so our colleague Sladolev and counterpart Hasanbegovic. And colleague Bulj just asked you how you would vote and would support Mr Hasanbegovic with whom you were painting in the parliamentary campaign. So I don't see anything controversial here. And when a colleague Jandrokovic talks about election results, it's amazing, so the man who got 200 votes says Miri Bulju who came out with his name and last name without any party machinery achieved the best possible result, forced HDZ's candidate into the second round, it's amazing. So you're the last one to talk about any election results. Here's an independent candidate, here's where all of these come out as independent candidates, so we'll see how many votes they get, and how much they get, Miro Bulj, anyone here with this one should come out as an independent candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39796	All right, take it easy, fellow Lonchart, just a minute. I'm asking you just a little bit. There are no bigger winners than our MOST colleagues, so don't be angry, nervous, let people celebrate. Here you go, buddy Bull, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39797	I'm glad to see that when he comments at the end of Parliament with 300 votes who simply didn't lick himself up to come sultan, Mr. Grmoya, when you're commenting on the sultan coming here, to get ISIL, he'd look behind the ass of those sultans, he'd have a turban, and that's the biggest one. So much for Parliament President, these are facts, it's an eclectic example, the biggest loser in the HDZ with the least preferential votes one of the least currently is the president of the Parliament. And I really don't want to comment that way, I'm proud of my score, I had one van and I drove it myself, and so I'm against the whole machine that was involved was going to the election and really not that I was proud but I didn't get the answer. The answer, how will those who led Zlatan Hasanbegovic in the 9th and 10th election units in Dalmatia now vote, organise his stands in the Bad Cave, how will he vote now, here I am curious how he will vote? And I asked them another question I didn't answer them, how will they explain to the people of colleagues Batinić and HNS, of course, with the help of Sanader and Seks who designed detudmanisation along with fellow Bozinovic, who was adviser to Mesic, how will he explain to the people now that these people are their main partners and that they have to bow to them? And I really haven't even got an appointment yet when there's gonna be a gay parade not supposed to be in Milan, but can we go to Trill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39798	I congratulate you again, you're falling ever lower. That's it. We should go to the vote now. Synchronising "%s" My dear Miro Bulj, I congratulate you on your victory one more time. [[I'd rather be hungry than you.]] Here you go, pal Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39799	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to say that this coalition except that it's unprincipled in all aspects includes another element that is very interesting. Namely, here is Miroslav Tudjman, who claims that Croatia has not committed an aggression on BiH, and HNS has claimed for two decades that it has. And now HNS and Miroslav Tudjman are going to the coalition together. And imagine the late president seeing by chance what's going on here and how the party he founded is more expensive and with what kind of people I'd dare say it retaliates Croatia. Because I've just received a few messages from citizens from the Varazdin County who say that the only achievement of this Stromar is that he set up an egg in Varazdin. So he didn't have any projects, and now he's going to run the Department of Construction and he's the one who should be running some projects around Croatia, etc. And when you have a man who lost the race to a political dead man, Radiir Cacic, then you have to wonder what the quality of this minister of construction is? According to the people of Varazdin County don't trust him, they don't trust him. Another thing that is also very important, the HNS will have a minister of education, and leaders of the curricular reform will continue to be people who have been shot by HRAST and HDZ. And now let someone explain to me, it's going to be one thing to say, a conflict situation where conflicting attitudes have a man who leads and his pronouns do. I don't understand what a curative reform will be and what young people will get through this reform of education, it doesn't get in my head. And as far as I'm concerned, here's a fellow Pupovec here, so you're going to the coalition just like Glavas, so I'm looking at it too, and I don't believe it. Well, I don't get it. Maybe that's the only thing that's weird to me, maybe it's normal for you. And you keep this HDZ man alive, and you see that they don't have a solution for anything, the simple land fails, we fall together, and we Croats and everyone else who isn't Croats. So this is a government directed against all Croatian citizens regardless of their national definition. And what exactly is going on? It's about the fact that minorities on one side aren't, they shouldn't be a factor that let's say, let's say they decide just as much as everyone else because elected minority representatives are on the other key. So minorities should only strengthen the ruling majority and not in a way that the ruling majority is created by stealing means representatives of the opposite coalition and parties of the opposite coalition and then those thefts, then minorities legitimize it and actually continue to maintain it. Mr. Pupovac, this is your political Frankenstein what HDZ did. What they put together, they put all these parties on the same side, so HNS, HRAST, you, Glavas, had before and Sauch, is no longer here, it's one Frankenstein coalition and one monster combination that has the only motive for its own arrest. So no higher principles, no higher principles. And please just one thing, Mr. Pupovci. If you already support this government, then at least take some ministry, scratch yourself for something. So don't let these HNS arrests get picked up, you won't have anything left. They'll move the crumbs off the table and leave nothing for you. You have three MPs. You minorities have eight MPs. How many members of the government do you have? You left everything to them. If you've already decided as minorities to support that government, then get something out for the minorities, I wouldn't mind. I'm being honest. But that you support Bianca. Here's what I suggest. Let Furio be the minister of something. So can Mr. Milosevic and Mr. Horvat. I have nothing against you either. I also suggest Mr. Bilek, Mr. Kajtazi, as Minister of Demography any solution, any solution that could remove us from the dead end. But simply the minorities in this House didn't take over, they're like co-determining about the government and they don't make it, that's the problem. It means that if HDZ were Mr. Pupovac and all the other minorities cared about the minorities, they would involve you in the government. But they say no, as the one named Brkic Miljan said, there will be no Serbs in the government, with that story he went with that rhetoric. To him, Mr. Pupovac and the rest of the HDZ, your hands are all they need. They don't care about the Croatian people either, and they care about the Serbs, Mr. Pupovac, like under the fingernails. They would drown you in a moment of water together, at the same time. Don't have an illusion about it. And you take part in their rescue by asking for nothing in return. It's my opinion, Mr. Pupovci, unacceptable. And it can't happen that there are more HNSs in state-owned enterprises than Serbs when you said there are too few Serbs in the Croatian forests. Come on, then let's do your own staffs. What's going on? What's going on? HDZ and HNS will employ only themselves and everyone else including you minorities will simply lose, get nothing. And I call on all minorities if you want to be a factor that decides on the government, then co-determine, not just as it's said as the wooden Mary and as those, as it's said... those dolls from the store only appear at the vote and absorb from the debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it doesn't really affect their decisions at all, but just what HDZ says you agree. There, that's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39800	Thank you. We have five replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39801	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we are witnessing a team, a series of these discussions or frustrating statements that simply people cannot reconcile with the loss and are unable to understand or discuss what would be in Croatia's interest at the moment. They forgot that the issue of the future of Croatia's stability and Croatia is what is crucial. But we have seen a series of counterfeits of discredition, deception, lies, insults, which simply isn't worthy of this Parliament. As for this, there is one positive thing, what happened and a direct answer to this, since 2000 we have witnessed this policy of "detudmanisation", the accusations against Operation "Storm", "Blesk", against the charges that Croatia has committed aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And precisely because the CNS no longer participates in those who brought these charges, this coalition is possible. So that part is just... I gave up HNS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And therefore, this space for these unfounded indictments that Croatia has suffered for 17 years, this space has narrowed down and it is obviously very difficult and difficult for you to bear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39802	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39803	Thank you. The truth is that part of the HNS that condemned HDZ's policy in the '90s will not participate in this HDZ government. That's true, but the question is, is this part that's left, is that the part that joined you because it shares your views on the '90s as well as HDZ or for the sake of the chair trade? You're trying to say that these HNSs that the others have the same view of work, homeland, etc. As well as your colleagues from HDZ. But I assure you that these people were not for these reasons let's say ideologically moved to your camp but it was a clean chair, it was a battle for chairs and it was the most ground and primitive one. What the HNS did was puzzling. It's a joke. So something that hasn't happened in Croatian political history until today, so this is unprincipled, and I would actually dare say that this is corruption at the highest level, and I would remind this opportunity one more thing. Mr. Sabo Zeljko, who was the mayor of Vukovar, has promised HDZ councilman some places, some infatuations, if he supports the SDP. And the man ended up in prison because he went to buy her out, and you publicly through the media are actually negotiating with HNS, you promise them chairs, they're looking for chairs and in return for those chairs they're going to go to you, etc. I wonder why Željko Sabo went to jail because that store that Zeljko Sabo did is peanuts with what you do to Plenkovic and the rest of your family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39804	Another replica of the esteemed colleague Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39805	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, colleague Pernar, we listen to this debate, some wonder, how is it that, yesterday's colleague, Mr Hasanbegovic, will now be expelled from the Education Committee, how is it that some who have said here we are going to the coalition with HDZ, to save the curricula reform, to get rid of how they said the hated HRAST, or as they have already said, and now it seems, HRAST will remain where and was and what is the excuse now? Why did we come in if we went in for reform and nothing from reform? Then I guess we'll give up the coalition, we won't, because they don't care about the soles of both the reform and the voters and whatever they're counting on, because this isn't at all, it shows now, the coalition from the program, from principle, from demographic standards, from whatever you want than a clean, clean trade agreement between the HNS d.o.o. and HDZ. So we see this indiscipline, we'll see them further. And yes, HDZ whatever it takes, whatever the great leader says, we'll somehow justify it, needs the worst enemy, and we'll somehow justify it. If we have to attack, if we have to justify it, is that because we stick to some standard, program, ideologies, alienism or whatever, no. If we have to step on the same foot, if we have to raise the same, only if we have to, just to save the skin and the chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39806	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39807	My friend Sincic, you've noticed correctly. There are no principles here, no morals and no programs. And now what's going on? It is obvious that citizens are the last to profit from this coalition and that citizens do not support it, that three-quarters of citizens do not imitate the direction the government is going. So, in government policy, three-quarters of citizens don't support it. Not even the majority of the Parliament, except for this majority, which is concluded in what way? It is concluded by taking over a political organisation, concluded with minority members, who have been chosen with rare exceptions, with a couple of 100 votes, and then HDZ teaches us what democracy is, what democratic procedures are, what are European values, etc. Dear ladies and gentlemen, what you've had a chance to see, this trade, what you would call, chairing, that's the European values of HDZ, that's HDZ policy, that's all they know, and all Mr. Sincic can do just because voters don't go to elections, and then that interested minority that comes out gets disproportionately more votes than people really support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39808	Dear counterpart Jovanovic, third replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39809	Thank you, Mr. President. You spoke to your colleague Pernar about an impossible mission that should be faced by a candidate for the science minister, education if all Barisic's staff remain. So, it would be really impossible to implement everything that Professor Divjak announced and what is on the trail of a major protest involving 20,000 citizens in Zagreb, another 10,000 citizens across Croatia who have pointed out that for Croatia that will be better, we must have a better education, and a better education is not possible with Barisic, along with Vican, along with Buljan Culej. And these were the demands of Croatian citizens who, in her remarks, clearly pointed out the candidate for the post of minister of education and science. And then today we heard here that the HRAST representative said that he was promised that for his vote to the new ministers, no one at the Ministry of Science and Education would change, that Schlezak remains, that Buljan Culej remains, that he remains Vican. As absurd as this is, we can see from the fact that it is the very candidate for the minister that if it is true, there will be no cooperation with the HDZ. And I support it, congratulating it on such a resolute statement, because for Croatia's future it is impossible to ensure better education and implementation of curricular reform with those who are holding back the implementation of the curricula reform, which stemmed from the strategy of education, science and technology, which this House adopted without a single vote against, in the very abstention of HDZ votes, and the reason was that they felt that more money was needed for the reform. Here, they have a chance to secure more money and let the new candidate lady do her job without the HRAST footing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39810	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39811	A colleague of Jovanovic, and for you there are some key issues, there are for us from the Living Wall, there are also for the HDZ gentlemen, but for Mr Zekonovic from HRAST, do you know what the key question for him is, do you know what the key question for him is, when life begins and it is a legitimate position and a legitimate question. But his view of when life begins is the opposite view HNS has. His view of Mr. Zekanovic's on the family, which is the family, who makes the family is the opposite of the attitude that HNS has on who makes the family. And now what's going on? In the government we have at the end of the situation, you know what Mr. Zekanovic, that you will give up your principle and that the CNS will give up its principle just to keep its chairs. And there's this whole story about their ideology where they talk about ideology, turn into a story about demagogy, and where they use ideology just because and only to manipulate naive people with abortion issues, drag them into a fight and debate, and then share chairs together in Parliament. That's your whole story, gender ideology, Mr. Zekanovic's story of gender ideology, told by HNS colleagues about gender ideology. And at the end of what, they're sitting together sharing prey like that animal farm crew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39812	The 4th replica of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39813	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pernar, you have well noticed that this is about an impossible coalition. Here's what we can read from the report from the media portal right now is that there have been even more severe conflicts between the new coalition partners than there have been between the MOST and HDZ at their break-up. So the government hasn't even formed yet, and we have a conflict in which the unelected minister threatens to resign, or the representative threatens to cancel trust, so specifically, MP Zekanovic over curuular reform. So we have in one coalition representatives who are for curative reform and against curricular reform. We have Minister Stier who goes to "Hod for Life" and Minister Štromar, who now says in the media that it is most important to fight for the right to abortion. Here I don't understand, if I get it right, it'd be like I'm defending the family of raids now, and today I'm going to throw my family out on the street or say I'm rooting for Hajduk, but when I get to the game, I'm rooting for Dinamo. Is that possible, gentlemen? I don't understand, I have to admit I'm just confused with that. ... That's the credibility you wrote about in your program. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So this coalition is simply trying to connect something that's impossible, which may exist in some fairy tale in some fiction, but in real life it doesn't exist. And I don't understand how the program is going to be implemented at all if everything in it is contradictory if the partners can't agree on everything and what's most important is that even this part of the HNS that's left is still falling apart at mass speeds is how many members we read massively. Here in the Varazdin spas in Dubrovnik, Zagreb, they rip off the cards, they light candles to the party. So what will be left of the party? What they will have will be the next central committee in the phone booth. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39814	Thank you, pal Bunjac. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39815	So, Mr. Bunjac, do you know how this HNS-HRAST coalition works along with HDZ? It's like you're in the government with the HDZ and you're against the delinquency of those who can't repay loans, and let's say at the same time the HNS is in that same government that's for those who can't repay credit. So two things are incompatible going in there because one thing's contradictory to the other. But you actually know what it's all about, it's Mr. Bunjac that between HRAST and HNS there's no difference, it's basically a suspicion of the summarum of the whole story, that both interests the naked political trade, because if they had opposing attitudes, that they had different attitudes and in an honest sense different, so could we together form power, could we implement the same policy? Because the fact is that the policy that HRAST and HNS will implement together in the government will be implemented by one policy cannot be implemented two. So these two parties have basically the same policy, ladies and gentlemen. And why do they have the same policy? Because their beliefs and principles are question number two, and chairs, chairs are question number one. Now, that's what I've been telling them all along, that there are existential questions above ideological questions, that the question of what a man is going to put in his mouth, whether he's going to have a roof under which he's going to sleep, whether he's going to have electricity and water that's above the question of gay parades, abortions, etc. But they kept saying no gentlemen from the Living Wall, existential questions don't matter, our ideology and demagogy matter. And we've seen here essentially what his ideology comes down to, ideology comes down to how much you give, give what you give is that one place in the Parliament for Mr. Zekanovic, are two places in the government... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39816	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39817	I'm fighting myself to treat you like a colleague, not a psychologist, and I'm coming to treat you like a psychologist. But I won't, I'll resist it, and I'll tell you a few reasons why what you're saying today is actually on the level of fascism. The first is that you smiled on the right hand and left at the expense of minorities. The second is that you took away our legitimacy because we have few votes, and we have few votes because your countrymen kicked us out of our houses, after World War II, during World War II, etc. And then after that, you're manipulative, stand up comedians, you're proposing to us, and you're hating us ironically because we don't trade, and you're hating someone else for what they're trading. That's why Mr. Pernar, I still like you, but you stay away from irony at the expense of those who have suffered and stay away from satire at the expense of those who have little. And the last thing I'm saying to you, all the stand-up comedians in this House took one term, so because I love you and my friend I'm telling you seriously in this House, not the way you talked about us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39818	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39819	Thank you, Mr. Radin. It's just that wherever minorities were seeking separatism, they were basically kicked out of the country, and that's a historic lesson for you everywhere. So let's say the Czechs and the Slovaks who were in Croatia never went to banish them from the country because they never sought separatism, while, for example, part of the Italians or Serbs unfortunately did. However... Come out. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, I'm just asking for time to stop. ... Ladies and gentlemen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39820	My colleague Pernar, just a second. Here's the debate you're having, and not just you, but a lot of such debates go beyond what people can handle. I have pointed out and prayed that we should conduct a debate, we can be tough and sharp, but not to go individually to people, that we do not cross the line of what is truly below the human dignity and dignity of the Croatian Parliament. Now you've crossed the line and people are gone. Now we're going to take a break when you're done and I'm going to give you that 58 seconds, and then after five minutes or ten minutes, we're going to start voting. But I really appeal to everyone, I mean, we can be offended, we can talk about each other words that don't deserve to be spoken even in pubs because this really doesn't make sense anymore, this has gone beyond what it is today. So I ask you to finish making sure that there are people here with their emotions, their lives, their families, and still be fair to each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39821	It was not my intention to attack colleagues who were representatives of minorities, but the thing is that simply minorities support this government that does not protect the interests of citizens, and the very minorities mean minority peoples in Croatia are not living well. They live disastrously, and this government does nothing to improve their living conditions. And the HDZ gentlemen who are now getting me and they had fingers in the fact that certain minorities left Croatia, and now they're silenced. That's nice of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39822	Okay, I'm asking you now to take a ten-minute break and then then we'll go to the vote on this final decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, and then we'll discuss the committee's meeting afterwards. I can tell you right now what it's like, not about, but exactly what the plan is. So at 16.00 a.m. would be the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić, at 16.20 a.m. of the Education, Science and Culture Committee Ivan Mažuranić, 16,40 of the Committee on Interior and National Security of the Hall Josip Šokčević, 17.00 a.m. Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership Ivan Kukuljevic, 17.20 the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction Ante Starčević, 17.40 the Committee on Justice Janko Drašković and 18.00 the Committee on Environment and Nature and the Committee on Economy Josip Jelačić so please organise yourself accordingly. The session will continue on this plan at 1900 hours. Now we will vote the final decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs then we are taking a break of the plenary session and it is planned for about 19.00 hours, of course depending on the work of the board, but plan around 19.00 hours to meet here and vote on the new ministers. So, please at 16,40 to be here at the vote. I'm sorry, 15.40. It's 3:35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.40 HOURS]] So, I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs, so I would like to ask you to join the vote. I find that with 77 votes for, 1 abstention and 2 against the proposal for this decision, it has also passed and that the decision has been made. So we are now, we are now done with all the important decisions concerning the change in the composition of committees and committees will meet with the dynamics I announced, so in 16h Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, in 16.20 Committee on Education, Science and Culture, 16,40 Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, 17.00 Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership, 17.20 Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, 17.40 Committee on Justice and in 18h Committee on Environment and Nature and Committee on Economy. He's reporting for the word "respectful fellow Pupovac."
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39825	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Selection, the appointment and administrative affairs of the Croatian Parliament, proposes to the Croatian Parliament: Decision on the resolution and selection of presidents and the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Constitution and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Roberta Podolnjak, and for the chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed by academician Željko Reiner. It is proposed that members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the political system of the Croatian Assembly of Academymen Željko Reinera be resolved, and that a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the political system of the Croatian Parliament be proposed. Robert Dolnjak. Proposal for a decision on the election of the president and the termination of the term of office of president and the resolution of the election of members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Marija Jelkovac is proposed as chairman of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. On 9 June 2017, the president of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Drazen Bosnjakovic, because of his confidence in acting as justice minister. It is proposed that members of the Legislatives Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Marija Jelkovac, and Anka Mrak-Taritaš, and that Damir Felak and Stjepan Curaj be proposed for members of the Croatian Parliament's Committee of Legislatives. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members for the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that a member of the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs be dismissed. Vesne Pusic, but for a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Marija Puh is proposed. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament Gordan Jandroković, Jasen Mesic and Dr. Vesne Pusic. The members of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by Ivan Ivan Celić, Anton Kliman and Marija Puh. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the Vice-President and the election to suspend the term of office of members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The decision of the Vice-President of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament Josip Djakic is proposed and the Vice-President of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by Angelko Strick. The members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by Josip Djakić and dr. Miroslav Tudjman. On 9 June, a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament stops acting on behalf of Ivan Anušić, for his term of office. And on 9 June 2017, a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament ceases to act as Ivan Vrdoljak for his term of office. Proposal for a decision on the election of the president and termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. For Vice-President of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Bozica Makar is proposed. On 10 May 2017, the Vice-President of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Ljubica Ambrusec because of the termination of the parliamentary term. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the president of the Committee, the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities of the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Furia Radina, and for the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Milorad Pupovac. And for a member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Furio Radin. Decision on the resolution of the Vice-President and the election of the Vice-President, the resolution of the members and the election of a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. The Vice-President of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Marija Jelkovac, is proposed and Marko Šimic is proposed as vice-president of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament Marko Simic is proposed, and Marija Jelkovac is proposed as a member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Ines Strenja Linic. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of vice presidents and the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament Sinisha Varga be resolved, and that Ivan Ćelic be vice-president of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Branko Hrg is proposed as a member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. On 25 May 2017, a member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Darko Milinovic for his term of office. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice-President and the election of the Vice-President. Resolve members and the selection of members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament Mira Bulj be resolved, and that Marija Puh be vice-president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Assembly Blaženko Boban is proposed and Doctor Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic is proposed for a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. The decision of the Vice-President of the Croatian Committee outside the Croatian Parliament Ivica Misic is proposed and Ivica Misic is proposed as a member of the Croatian Committee outside the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed for the chairman of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee, Josip Djakic. On 9 June 2017, the president of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Mr. Ivan Anusic for his term of office. A resolution is proposed for members of the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament Mir Bulj, Josip Đakić, Bruno Esih and Hrvojo Runtic, and for members of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament Stevo Culej, Petar Škorić, Željko Raguž and Davor Lončar are proposed. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly Josip Borić be resolved and that members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly Blaženko Boban be resolved. For members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly, Ante Sanader and Josip Boric are proposed. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament, Dr Josip Križanić, be resolved, and that Josip Boric be vice-president of the Committee for Environment and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that the president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament Andre Krstulovic Opara be resolved, and that Dr Vesna Bedeković be president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament Majda Burić is hereby dismissed, and Sanja Putica is proposed as a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament Domagoj Hajduković be resolved, and that Dr. Josip Križanić. A member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Josip Križanić, and for a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, Damir Felak is proposed. It is proposed as a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament Marijan Kustic. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament of Nikola Grmoje be resolved, and that Ljubica Maksimčuk be represented as a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament. The decision of the Vice-President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament of Dr Zlatko Hasanbegovic is proposed, and Robert Jankovics is proposed as vice-president of the Committee of the Croatian Parliament for Presentations and Appeals. For a member of the Board of the Croatian Assembly for Presentations and Appeals, Tomislav Lipoščak is proposed. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media beus Richembergh and Andre Krstulovic Opara be resolved, and that the members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by Marija Puh and Zarko Tušek. It is proposed to be a member of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament Domagoj Mikulić as it was given the post of member of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament for the termination of the parliamentary term of office. It is proposed to resolve the member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament of Hope Turine-Đurić and to propose to the member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament Božica Makar. As Head of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Sanja Putica is proposed, because on 9 June 2017, the Head of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe stopped acting as Mato Frankovic because of the termination of the parliamentary term. It is proposed that the President of the Croatian Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39826	We'll do it later. Let's do this now. I'm opening a debate united, so all of these proposals. I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39827	Thank you, Mr. President. This is about reconfiguring the board according to the new parliamentary majority, with legitimate right, the parliamentary majority having in all committees a majority of 7 where 15 is, where 13 are and within their quotas they agree that they should and we will accept it, we also announce that, within the opposition quota, new reconfiguration will also be carried out because these changes have resulted in some proportionality by participating in individual opposition clubs on boards, so that here, fellow opposition citizens, we will try to do so as soon as possible, so that the Committee on Elections and Appoints is expeditious, they promised us and we do not object to all these appointments voting at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39828	Thank you very much for your constructive proposal. Is there anyone who's opposed to us voting? My colleague Jovanovic, something else, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39829	Thank you, Mr. President. So to be consistent with myself, I'm going to repeat what I was saying about the debate when we were changing committees a week ago. So, I can't understand, although I'm talking about the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I have nothing against my colleague Putica and Bedekovic, that they're ducking, I think they're extremely good and that they're going to improve the work of the board, but I can't understand that this new HNS, who entered the coalition, defending this by fighting for curriculative reform, was not able to ensure in this new club, that he was transferred to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of a member of the HNS. If we know how the Parliament, the Government works and that the key documents concerning the education, science and technology strategy and the curricular reforms arising from it should be passed through the Parliament, and in particular through the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, then the behaviour of a colleague from this new HNS seems at least irresponsible to all those who expect to contribute to ensuring the implementation of the curricula reform. And secondly, when I took my word for it, I would like to ask Mr. Sanader and the President to ensure, as soon as possible, the selection of members of all the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39830	Thank you. The other came forward for a debate, a distinguished colleague of Peja Grbin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39831	Thank you, Mr. President. Although it is not usual for discussions to take place in the selection of members of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. representatives of the Croatian Parliament, on certain duties in committees, I, as vice-president of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, must do so anyway. And I have to do what I think the public deserves, to explain the reasons why I cannot support the election of Academy Director Rainer as chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And no, it's not because of his profession, as it has often been written in the media in the last few days, because I think it's a completely missed topic. The Chairman of the Constitution Committee, given the importance of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for all its citizens, can be a man of any profession. Thus, the fact that someone is a doctor does not in any way reduce the ability of that person to chair the committee. However, the attitudes that academic Rainer expressed during his political career prevents me from supporting him, and most of all, what respected academic Rainer said in an interview, published on 15 June 2017. In the interview, academic Rainer relativises Croatia's status as a secular state. Academic Rainer uses examples of such democratic sizes as Vietnam, when talking about how representatives should be elected to the Croatian Parliament. And most importantly, academic Rainer relativises the Constitutional Court's decision on an abortion law. They relate in a way that fully arbitraryly interprets the court's decision and, despite a very clear view, explains that this decision does not interfere with the Croatian Parliament in any way, to pass a law prohibiting abortion in Croatia. And with all due respect to this House, and of course, at this moment I speak exclusively and only in my personal name, I cannot therefore support my colleague Rainer to chair the Committee on the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39832	Thank you, comrade Grbin. I don't think that so far there are obstacles to selecting individual members, presidents, vice presidents of the board were their views and somehow we respected each other, because tomorrow might happen to someone who comes from a minority quota, an opposition quota, so I don't think that's a good approach, but of course you have a right to your own opinion. My colleague Rainer called in a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39833	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Grbin, first of all, I am very pleased that you are reading the religious media, because this interview is given in a religious medium. That's nice to meet you. You will likely contribute to your spirituality in this regard. However, you obviously misread what I said knowingly or unconsciously. On the contrary. Exactly the opposite. On the matter of commenting, the Constitutional Court's decision, you didn't say that, but I'm going to say here now. First of all, I said, I don't think it's appropriate for politicians to comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, in any way, one way or another. I quoted that decision then and said that the decision is binding only on the Parliament, to make a new law within the next two years. What's this law gonna look like? We can't know this moment. If he's going to be more liberal or restrictive, we can't know that, and I said that. So I'd like you to quote me from my interviews in religious media, then quote exactly, not say something that doesn't stand. And also the context of this Vietnam thing you know very well, you just twisted it a little bit to connect democracy with Vietnam, and the exact opposite I was saying. Therefore, it is not good to politicise here in the Parliament and abuse of certain things, and especially here as the President of the Parliament said [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]] It was not the custom to communicate so far. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]] If you introduce such a custom, we will bring it in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39834	Comrade Reiner, thank you very much. Time's up. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39835	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fortunately for me, the Index Portal found that interview of yours, passed it on so that it became available to me too. Dear colleague, I really don't know what you were going to say, I really don't know what you said, but I know what's written. And it is very clear in that interview that you believe that under the right to the privacy of a woman, and that is what the Constitutional Court was talking about, cannot in any way underline her right to terminate pregnancy. And with all due respect, dear colleague Reiner, what you said in that interview, I now allow you and perhaps you did not state what was written, but I don't see that you sent a denial or anything, but what you stated goes directly and directly contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision. So this is not about selecting a member of the board, I will not, I do not want to in any way reduce the importance of agriculture, a member of the Committee on Agriculture or take a committee that I myself, a member of the Committee on Justice, is here talking about the selection of the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament which is not accidentally listed in the list of the Board of the Croatian Parliament in the first place. And this is about you having your views, what you expressed less than a week ago questioning the secular character of the Republic of Croatia and questioning an extremely important decision of the Constitutional Court and relativising its importance and the way it will apply. And with all due respect, your attitudes are holding me back from supporting you as chairman of the Constitution committee, not something else, the Constitution committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39836	Thank you very much, very much, fellow coat of arms. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? A fellow Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39837	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a quick word on behalf of the HNS Club. And I commend this initiative by my colleague, Bauk, that this procedure means a new configuration related to a new position and opposition to be done in this way, and perhaps it should be a practice and a future one. And here's what I'm going to use for a short while and these comments from some colleagues about our attitude. Of course, as we say, it's either a compliment or a reconfiguration as we want, so it's not finished yet, and we need to define some things within our own clubs as far as the position is concerned. And colleague Jovanovic, thank you for taking care of us, but please don't take care of us. We are conscious and aware enough, we are aware and aware of the responsibilities we have assumed as well as certain resolutions and be assured that we will also have a representative on that committee. But I'm saying, let's let the weather go real soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39838	Thank you. We have a replica of a colleague, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39839	By the end of the term, I will remind you of your responsibility and your awareness because you have deceived all citizens who have given their voice to the National Coalition and the HNS who is... and the National Coalition and who has never said in his programme that he will co-operate with HDZ. It's your consciousness and it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39840	Reply to the replica of counterpart Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39841	It means so much about how collegiate we are and how rightly citizens are saying that just us sitting here in the Parliament, I don't consider ourselves to be, we're working on the division of Croatian citizens. A colleague of Jovanovic, you were a minister in the coalition government, that's all she says, which she managed to do with respect for the circumstances and your work. The fact that you're going to remind me of us at the HNS is completely understandable to me, and that we cheated on voters, so I think if I wasn't even at the last session when that topic was, I didn't want to answer the debate simply for reasons that were personal, and who the HNS doesn't think we cheated on voters. If someone cheated on voters, then it's primarily SDP. And you mention the contract, The one you broke first. [[I beg you, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39842	My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to be parliamentary, allow your colleague Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39843	You're talking about the contract you're first. so much for tolerance. [[Intruder President: Comrade Maras, I ask you to let us speak in silence.]] So you're the first party to break the agreement we signed and I think if you're not aware of it then I believe you do a little studying and you have experts and lawyers to study and you'll see about your actions. Don't judge HNS, it was a matter of taking responsibility for which you as the main opposition party had no power to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39844	Thank you. Is there anyone else here to discuss this? If not, I have a proposal like this, so as my colleague Grbin has voiced opposition to this proposal to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, I suggest that we vote on this point separately, and the other 23 to unite. Is everyone okay with that? Thank you very much. I then vote, firstly the proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. I find that with 116 votes for and 2 votes against decisions made in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Thank you very much. Afterwards, I am voting on the proposal for a resolution, all of these 23 which the president of the Ante Sanader Committee has proposed to us, I am putting it to the vote, please. I find that, with 121 votes, the decision has been taken unanimously, that is to say, by the President of the Committee, Ante Sanader. I thank everyone for understanding and for having such a constructive approach. Now, I'd like to ask, we have three other decisions of the Board of Selection, appointments and administrative affairs, so I'd like to ask my colleague Sanader to explain them, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39845	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a decision to resolve the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Petra Mandic, be resolved on a personal request.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39846	I'm opening a debate. And I'm closing the debate. I would like to vote on the proposal for a decision on election, appointment and administrative matters. I find that with 122 votes in favour, it was unanimously decided as it was proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39847	Decision on discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. A member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly Davor Vlaović is proposed and Mladen Madjer is proposed as a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament Davor Vlaović be resolved and that Željko Lenart be represented as a member of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39848	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the Committee's proposal for a decision on selection, appointment and administrative matters. Both decisions, of course. I find that, unanimously with 121 votes, the decision was made as proposed by the Committee. And now we move on to the selection of appointments and resolutions and ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections and Designs and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the motion for a decision. Here's your colleague Sanader. I also suggest, if we are all in agreement and we have discussed this with our colleague, Bauk, I do not know whether other clubs agree to vote as unitedly as last time, because they have agreed on all these changes and are in line with the schedule of the board members by the majority and the minority that exist in the Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39850	Thank you, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for the Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament: Decision on the discharge of the election of a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee of Law of the Croatian Parliament, Damir Felak, is proposed and Ante Bačić is transferred as a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Maria Puh, is proposed and Tomislav Sauch is proposed as a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Defence Committee of Croatian Parliament Dr Draga Prgomet is proposed and Ante Bačić is proposed as a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, Damir Felak, is proposed and is proposed as a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, Ivan Šuker is proposed. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, Michael Zmajlovic, be resolved, and that Domagoj Hajduković be proposed for the Vice-President of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Kirin and Maria Puh be resolved, and that Marijan Kustic and Tomislav Sauch be proposed for members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Bozica Makar, is proposed and Stjepan Čuraj is proposed as a member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that the president of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament of Dr Miranda Mrsic be resolved, and Gordan Maras is proposed for the chairman of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament Josip Djakić be resolved, and that the members of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament be offered Ante Babić and Ivan Šuker. It is proposed that members of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament Branko Hrg and academics Željko Rainer be resolved, and Dr Goran Dodig and Ivan Kirin are proposed for members of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Petar Škorić, is proposed and Ivan Kirin is proposed as a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Spatial Planning, the construction of the Croatian Assembly Josip Borić and Ante Sanader be resolved, and that the members of the Committee on Spatial Planning, the construction of the Croatian Assembly be proposed by Tomislav Lipoščak and Domagoj Mikulić. It is proposed that the president of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature be resolved by the Croatian Parliament Gordan Maras, and for the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament, Michael Zmajlović. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament Veljak Kajtazi be resolved, and Maria Puh is proposed as a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed for the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Tomislav Panenic, because on 10 May 2017, the president of the Committee on Agriculture stopped acting as Dr Davor Romic due to the termination of the parliamentary term. It is proposed that a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Milorad Batinić, and, for a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, Bozica Makar is proposed. A member of the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Fund of the Croatian Parliament, Sinisha Varge, is proposed, and Marko Vesligaj is proposed as a member of the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Fund of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that a member of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly Bozica Makar... and Tomislav Saucha is proposed as a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Vesne Bedeković, and Domagoj Mikulić is proposed as a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Siniš Hajdaša Dončić, and Dr. Romana Jerkovic. It is proposed that a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament of the Croatian Parliament, Maria Puh, be resolved, but that Bozica Makar be proposed as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. It is proposed for a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament Sanja Putica because on 29 June 2017, a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Majda Buric due to the termination of the parliamentary term of office. It is proposed to resolve the members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament Damir Felak and Bozici Makar and to propose Ante Bačić and Bernarda Topolko for members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the National Council be resolved to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy under the order of MPs Angelko Strick, and Ante Babic is proposed as vice-president of the National Council for the monitoring of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. On 29 June, a member of the National Council for the monitoring of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, Majda Buric, stopped acting because of the termination of the parliamentary term, and was proposed as a member of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy under the MPs' Order, Stevo Culej. It is proposed that the deputy head of the Croatian Parliament's delegation be resolved in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Romana Jerkovic, and Franko Vidovic is proposed as deputy head of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the SECEP is named Marijan Kustic because on 29 June 2017, a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation has stopped acting as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the SECEP because of the termination of the parliamentary term of office. For a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, Ante Bačić is proposed because on 29 June 2017, a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean ceased to act as Blaženko Boban because of the termination of the parliamentary term. It is proposed that the president of the State Commission be resolved for damage assessment from the elemental accident of Tomislav Panenic on a personal request. For the President of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from an elemental accident, Dr. Josip Križanić, a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from the elemental accident, is being resolved. Josip Križanić, however, is proposed as a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from the elemental accident, Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39851	I would like to thank the president of the Anti Sanader Committee for the explanation of these proposals. I'm opening a united discussion on all these suggestions. Dear counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic appeared for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39852	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that I protest, I'm angry, I wonder if it makes any sense to speak for who knows which time I have to say that we don't have members of the outside bodies again, and the information I got won't even be appointed until the summer break. But let's let it go, let's just say we don't do it, I can't understand that we haven't been able to select six members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. That's not even a party issue, because those six outside members know exactly where they come from. Behind the academic community, from the union, from the NGO sector dealing with the problem of corruption, from the order of experts, from the employers. This should therefore be resolved practically within half an hour of the work of the Selection and Appointing Committee. It was a shame yesterday to discuss the National Homeland Security Strategy where it was said that one of the key problems that threatens security between other and corruption, and we are unable to appoint six external members. And you must know that the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy cannot operate without six external members because they make up the majority. I therefore protest and insist that by the summer break, the National Council is appointed to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39853	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are going to a united vote in a manner and in accordance with the proposals of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 97 votes for decisions made as proposed by the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39856	Thank you, Mr. President. A member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, Pedja Grbin, is proposed and Anka Mrak-Taritaš is proposed as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. As a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Vesna Pusic. Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric is proposed as a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. For members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, Dragan Jeckov and Goran Beus Richembergh, on 30 June 2017, a member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Mile Horvat for the rest of the parliamentary term. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament Predrag Matić be resolved, and that a member of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament be proposed. Ivan Kovačić. A member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Pernar is proposed and Siniš Varga is proposed as a member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. As a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament, Slaven Dobrović is proposed because on 10 May 2017, a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Ljubica Ambrusec because of the termination of the parliamentary term. For a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, Dragana Jeckov and Giovanni Sponza are proposed because on 30 June 2017, a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Mile Horvat for his term of office and because on 10 May 2017, a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Ružica Ambrusec because of the termination of the parliamentary term of office. For a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament, Dragan Jeckov is proposed because he is a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament on 30 June 2017. For a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, Marko Sladoljev is proposed because on 10 May 2017, a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Ružica Ambrusec because of the termination of the parliamentary term. It is proposed that the Head of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament be resolved at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation Dr. Milorad Pupovac, and for the head of the Croatian Parliament delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation, Dr. Robert the underpants. It is proposed that members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation of Mihajl Zmajlovic be resolved, and that a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation be proposed. Furio Radin. A resolution is proposed for the deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation of Petar Škorić, and for the deputy member of the Croatian Parliament delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation, Ante Babic is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39857	Thank you. I suggest that we make a unification of the debate and vote if it doesn't mind, and I hope that, like so far, every time this is part of the party agreement that we can then unify and vote. Individually respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic appeared for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39858	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I must express regret that you have not respected my appeal to be members of this session, if not all of the National Council for the monitoring of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. The Anti-Corruption Strategy is the Croatian Parliament's only body responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy is a national council that has not yet been established here, showing enormous care, reporting to ruling members who have not been able to choose six outsiders. In addition, we are late to adopt an action plan stemming from the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. Croatia is back on all corruption perception indices, which only testifies to what extent it is necessary for the national council to do its job. An additional concern about me is that we are witnessing both in Croatia and the ruling do not respect the Croatian Parliament strategies. Here we have seen that under the cover of the night someone mutilated the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology and wrote some action plan that annulled 66% of the measures stemming from the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. Who knows what happens then to the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy? All of this, Mr. President, I express my dissatisfaction, revolt, and I cannot believe that you as president were unable to initiate that the Committee on Selection and Appointment appoints six external members for the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39859	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. You know very well that I am the first among the equals and that there should be an agreement for such matters between parties both ruling and opposition, as my colleague Lovrinovic asked for external members of the other committees. I agree that we should do this, the circumstances were what they were, we had local elections, we had the reconfiguration of the majority and the minority in the Croatian Parliament, and I'm quite sure that at the beginning of the autumn session we'll have outside members of all the committees and so the bodies you asked me about. I agree with you that it should be done, but I beg your understanding. There are certain circumstances that have led to such a situation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39860	Thank you, esteemed President Jandrokovic, and distinguished colleagues of Parliamentarians and MPs. So, I don't know if you know that, although we keep saying that, the only parliamentary body of the National Council for Monitoring in the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy has most external members and cannot do so without the appointment of 6 external members because members of the assembly representatives have 5. Therefore, the unnamed council is a major mistake of rulings who have been unable to secure even the past term of office, a past challenge that has been established by the council and not by now after months of working. Therefore, no justification nor does this now said by a colleague of the president justify the non-constitution of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39861	Okay. Since no one's answering for a hearing anymore, I'm closing it. And I am voting on the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs as submitted by its President. Please, let's vote. I find that decisions have been unanimously made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. So before we continue to work, the next Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2015 is just a few information. Next week we'll be working from Monday. The first item will be the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2016. We will leave Monday at 9.30, we will work until Friday, so Friday would be the day when we would vote on all the points that we will discuss next week as well as the points that we have discussed and have not voted on today, so there are still a few points that we will vote on Friday and are already discussed. You've received as well as so far a schedule for the debate on the points from Monday to Thursday. Again, there is a very extensive agenda so that I ask you for an efficient, quality debate so that we can process all the points in quality and discuss them all by Thursday so that we can vote on them on Friday. And of course I ask you to call on Monday all the committees we need, whose opinion is needed in order to discuss the points at the plenary session. Thank you very much. And continues now with the Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2015. MEETING IN 12.50 HOURS We still have the choice, appointments and resolutions left. Before that, I just want to say that the two points we discussed will not be voted today, but we will vote them at the next session, I hope. It's about selecting judges of the Constitutional Court. That's where we failed to reach an inter-party agreement, so we don't have two-thirds of the votes secured, so we decided to move that point to the fall session. The second point we discussed is the establishment of an investigative committee for Agrokor. However, this vote for the next session of the Croatian Parliament is postponed on the proposal and in agreement with the SDP MPs' Club. I would now like to ask my colleague, Ante Sanader, president of the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, to explain the proposal for a decision to replace committees and appoint board members. I ask you to do the same as we have done several times now, unless someone has objections to any of the elected members or board members, so that we have a united debate and a united vote. I'm asking my colleague Sanader to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39863	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs proposes that a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, Siniš Varga, be dismissed and that Davor Vlaović be proposed as a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. To submit to the Vice-President of the Croatian Committee outside the Croatian Parliament Željko Glasnović. Resolve the Vice-President of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament Dr. Branimir Bunjac, but to submit to the Vice-President of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament Miro Bulj. For the Vice-President of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly, Dr. The famous Dobrovic. A resolution is proposed for the deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Dr Robert Podolnjak, and to propose Davor Ivo Stier as deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is proposed that members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation of Academymen Željko Reiner be resolved, and that Ante Babic be proposed as a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. It is proposed that the deputy members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation of Hope Turin Đurić and Ante Babić, and that the members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation be proposed by Michael Zmajlović and Petar Škorić. It is proposed to the Vice-President of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union of Željka Josić because on 11 May 2017, the post of Vice-President of the Executive Board, the national groups and the Croatian Parliament ceased to act in the interparliamentary Union as a result of the termination of the parliamentary term. A member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament of the Interparliamentary Union, Željka Josić, is proposed and Ljubica Maksimčuk is proposed as a member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the interparliamentary. It is proposed that the deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation be resolved in the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, Dr Zlatak Hasanbegovic, and that Ante Babic be a deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation in the Mediterranean parliamentary assembly. It is proposed that members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation be resolved in the parliamentary assembly of Dr Marko Vučetić, and Sanja Putica is proposed as a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the SEEKEP parliamentary assembly. A member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development from the Order of Representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric is proposed and Bozica Mlakar is proposed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. A member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development from the Order of Representatives Bozica Mlakar is proposed to be replaced by a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandrić is proposed. As Chairman of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipović, doctor Vesna Bedeković, president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed, as he was on 14 June 2017, president of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipović stopped acting as Andro Krstulović Opera for the rest of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39864	I thank the board president, Mr. Sanader. And now we're going to have a debate. Are there any interested? If not, then let's go on, fellow Ronko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39865	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have no objection to a united debate, but I would ask that we be allowed to vote on every single proposal. Someone may not have the will to, to support a candidate, and if we vote grouply, then let's say they force themselves to vote or not to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39866	We had a fellow Ronko, we had a situation like this, if you want, I asked at the beginning, if you have any objections, say it freely.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39867	No, I'm trying to tell you, please allow me to vote on every single proposal. Why? Because I, for example, do not know how and for whom, but I, for example, cannot support the proposed candidate for the honorary post of Vice-President of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39868	Then can we vote on all the other points and single out this one? Do you agree with that? ... [[It depends on others, not me.]] All right, then we're voting first united for all points, except for the point requested by the distinguished colleague Ronko. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I pray we vote. I find that with 103 votes in favour, and 1 vote against, therefore, most of the votes have confirmed all the proposals that the Committee has given us. In addition to the proposal for a decision on the selection of the Vice-President of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. So I will now give a special vote for this point, and therefore, the decision is to elect Slaven Dobrović as vice president of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in favour, or we'll vote. I find that most of the votes 92 for and 5 against, a decision has been made to elect a colleague, Slaven Dobrović, as vice president of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, I hereby conclude the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament. The next regular session of the Croatian Parliament will be held on 15 September 2017, which you will of course be informed of in time with all the points we will discuss at that session. I thank you for your cooperation and I'll see you on September 15th. Thank you very much. Session closed in 14.10 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence, the conditions for giving the oath of new ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been met. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 5 The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia is sworn in a way that the President pronounces the text of the oath and thereafter calls upon individual members of the Government and swears to the Government by standing up and pronouncing the oath. The text of the oath reads: “I swear that I will be consciously and honorably acting as a member of the Government, respecting the Constitution, the laws and the legal order and pleading for all progress of the Republic of Croatia.” Predrag Štromar, deputy prime minister of the Republic of Croatia and minister of construction and spatial planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39870	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39871	Congratulations! Lovro Kuščević, Minister of Management. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39872	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39873	Congratulations to you, too. Tomislav Coric is the minister of environmental and energy protection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39874	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39875	Davor Bozinovic, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39876	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39877	Congratulations! Marko Pavić, Minister of Labour and Pension System. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39878	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39879	Blaženka Divjak, Minister of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39880	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39881	Congratulations! And Drazen Bosnjakovic, minister of justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39882	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-09-0.u39883	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Your Honor, and the Honorable Ministers, I congratulate you on your trust and oath. I wish you to successfully carry out the honorary and responsible duties of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, or Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is what we've exhausted all the points and everything we've planned to do today. This ends with the work and the continuation of the session is Monday 12 June at 9.30 p.m. with the point Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hunting Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 87. So we'll work Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, it's Thursday, and then Friday we won't work and we'll also work that week after Monday to Wednesday. Thank you all and have a nice weekend! The session was interrupted at 19.25 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.15 HOURS]] 1. Proposal to show confidence to Predrag Štromar for the responsibilities of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were held at the session of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You've received a report from the board on the benches. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? If not, in accordance with Article 119(1), paragraph 10. The Rules of Procedure on this proposal shall not be held at the plenary session. I stress that Article 252. The Rules of Procedure determines that to show confidence to members of the government, a half majority of all MPs are required. I am voting on a proposal to show confidence to Predrag Štromar for the duties of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. Please vote. I find that, with 78 votes in favour and 46 against the vested trust of Predrag Štromar to carry out the duties of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. Congratulations. ... [[Applause.]]
