ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25036	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Live Wall and SNAGA club, I am looking for a break to discuss the maesteral verdict of Judge Blaz Vukotic in Pazin and the necessary measures to finally stop the damage of 200 Croatian families by banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25037	Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25038	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia to warn the public about the demands for which are a practical violation of monetary sovereignty in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25039	Representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25040	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am also asking for a ten-minute break so that the Croatian public can learn about anti-constitutional political violence against Croats in BiH over the vote of the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH resolution without Croatian representatives and without representatives of any Croatian party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25041	Thank you. Representative Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25042	Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDSS club, the reason is the break-in of Orthodox churches in the area of Drniš.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25043	Representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25044	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a break concerning the credibility of the conduct of certain members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25046	Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club for ten minutes to discuss discrimination against the elderly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25047	If there are no other interested parties, I'm setting a ten-minute break. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] A couple of clubs called for a break. The first club is the Living Wall and the SNAG. In their name will be the representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25049	Thank you, Your Honor. I've already talked here several times about misdemeanor proceedings against banks for not agreeing with their debtors the parameters for changing interest rates and for which they are threatened with fines from 80,000 to 200 thousand kuna. In total, over 700 such processes are currently being conducted in Croatia. A whole series of first-degree verdicts have been passed. In the meantime, however, the High Violent Court decided that if the bank sent a notice on the debtor's parameters that the bank was not responding in this case, it is entirely contrary to all the laws of the Republic of Croatia. We even reported an unknown perpetrator for that because he gave the courts an indication of how to judge, that how long did the bank deliver the parameters notice then the bank didn't do it. So we have the latest case of a judge in Pazin who sentenced OTP bank to 100 thousand kuna last year, after which the bank complained, and the High Criminal Court went back to the first degree and ordered the judge to determine first whether the bank applied because it was a credit with the Swiss franc currency clause, whether the bank applied a legal limit of 3.23% and whether the bank had notified the debtor of the parameters at the interest rate before 1 January 2014, if the bank did so then did not subject to criminal liability. However, the judge in Pazin Blazo Vukotic did not agree with the opinion of the High Violent Court, but the judge ruled a new sentence against the bank, not 100,000 kuna, but 150 thousand kuna. How did he explain it? First, he found that it was clear and unequivocal that the bank had to negotiate with the debtor the parameters for the change in interest rate and that there was no legal obligation for any information to be settled in a legal manner. Next, I'll quote, I can't speak in my head because I have to quote the judge. He says, the notification of the parameters the High Court Council considers acceptable to the enforcement of the legal obligation is in fact an imaginary category, the judge said. Furthermore, the opinion of the Council of the High Violent Court that the notice of interest parameters is the reason for the absence of an offence is that the judge says unacceptable speculation and clouding to the consumer's harm as damages. The judge, Vukotic, then, says that such an argument by the higher court is contrary to clear and unequivocal provisions of the law. And the next thing Judge Vukotic says is that the prescribed obligation of the bank to inform the consumer of the change in interest rate does not give authority to the High Violent Court to draw up an unacceptable analogy conclusion on its own construction in its reasoning of the decision. Furthermore, only in the imagination of the High Court of Infringement is there so-called. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Consumer Credit Act. So that's the imagination of the High Criminal Court says Judge Vukotic. Furthermore, since the High Violent Court has asked to determine whether the bank has applied an interest rate limit, and this has nothing to do with the breach the bank is being accused of, the judge said. It is groundless to ask for a finding of whether OTP applied a reduction in interest rate to 3.23% and this is actually another way of clouding the case. And finally, Judge Vukotic, as a difficult circumstance for the bank, says that in 2014, the bank earned 250 million kuna net thanks to exactly this unfair business practice, and this is a difficult situation for the bank and therefore the penalty is increased to 150 thousand kuna. We'll see how the High Violent Court will now act, whether to retake it to the first degree of action. However, if he returns it to the first stage, he is likely to exclude Judge Vukotic from the proceedings. Because Judge Vukotic will not allow anyone to manipulate him, and that judge will judge only by law and by law. What we have to do is finally lay down a methodology by law to determine the initial fixed interest margin and variable parameters. Then we must also, on the basis of a collective verdict, but also on the basis of powerful individual judgments, pass a law which will restore overpaid interest by 200 thousand debtors. We need to write a brand-new executive law and then we can sit down with the remaining blocked debtors and see how to solve their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25050	We change Croatia's club, he also asked for a break. Representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25051	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, respected MPs, respected citizens who follow us through radio and television. Every few people show up in Croatia who say and think that the euro should be introduced to Croatia. In addition to flags, anthem, borders and the Constitution, you are well aware that currency is one of the characteristics of the state sovereignty of a state. And such traits are seriously discussed and we know how painful it was when countries gave up their currency. Now, I read yesterday in the media CNB issued a statement that this is exactly what a MOST representative is looking for, which is that the euro is being introduced this summer in Croatia. But what are those motives? What are the motives? Apparently, Dubrovnik is where a lot of cruisers come in, lots of tourists, crowds, people can't buy, etc. But respected colleagues and colleagues, I think it would be a miracle for someone to come to Dubrovnik from abroad if they didn't have at least one card. He doesn't need the introduction of the euro. So he can pay whatever he wants, and that banks are recalculating and problem solved. I don't understand what the problem is. What is so important that it requires an exorcism and the introduction of the euro? Because of the change in the euro. So we know anyway, and that we think about it, those who come on the cruise, they've got everything paid there. He comes out a little bit, walks, if he pays for that tour of the walls, and God makes you rejoice. That's all. They're spending a little bit. So why raise this question, too important a question to such a level? And one more thing. As a monetary expert, it is known to me that the expanded use of cash in circulation, in transactions, means the expansion of the grey economy. Which means more cash means more gray economy in a country. The more cards the gray economy is, because everything is automatically registered. So here's what I'm using the opportunity to ask why the Most is now in favour of exorcising the kuna and introducing the euro? And the second question, is this perhaps the reason why it makes it difficult to amend the Law on the Croatian National Bank which was here three months ago, so we don't know what's going on here today. Gentlemen, one who advocates the exorcism cannot say that he is the protector of national interests. Then we don't understand what national symbols and interests are. I cannot be surprised by this request, the euro must not be the topic of local elections. This is a serious question, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25052	The HDZ advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will be spoken by Representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25053	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I address you for the fact that the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH Parliament and its Bosniak majority on 21 March 2017, without the presence and participation of Croatian representatives, adopted the Resolution on the condemnation of the BiH Federalisation Initiative and its entities. We consider the resolution to be more fundamental to the opposite spirit and letter of the BiH Constitution, and to be extremely harmful to the application of European values in BiH, to stabilise its chronically unstable political life, and to improve international relations. Since we have decided as a Croatian National Assembly to get familiar with this domestic and international public, I believe that Croatia is primarily based on its constitutional obligations as a member of the EU, and as signatories and guarantees from Dayton should be familiar with these adverse consequences of the way the resolution was adopted and the contents mentioned. The resolution is an anti-constitutional act because it denies the basic principle of the Dayton Agreement at the head of the constitution of the people. The resolution calls on the signatories of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH to respect and consistent application of its provisions, but completely ignore Annex 4. Agreement. It is a system of BiH and therefore also the holders of the state subjectivity of BiH, Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs as constituent peoples. We recall that these provisions of the preamble subsequently confirmed by the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH of 2000, which clearly states that the preamble to the Constitution of BiH of Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs as constituent peoples must be understood as one of the predicative principles of the Constitution of BiH, which entities must fully comply with as well as with the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH of 2016, which also regrets the full legitimacy of the constitutional concept of the constituent peoples, and also points to full respect for their rights in the domain of legitimate and democratic political representation. This resolution also deepens international divisions, implements unitarian, nationalist, high-level AGENDA. Already the fact that all Bosniak parties voted for the resolution in the House of Representatives, and its adoption was opposed by representatives of all Croatian parties completely disabling its declared intention of condemning national divisions. The adoption of the resolution on the contrary strengthened and deepened national divisions. Given the fact that the BiH Constitution is a federalist constitution pair of excellence Bosniak parties are therefore by who knows which way they took the position directly contrary to the principles of the BiH Constitution. The resolution is also directly opposed to the EU's policy towards BiH and raises the question of BiH's European path. The initiative to adopt the resolution came directly after the adoption of the European Parliament Resolution of 15.2.2017 on the Commission's 2016 Report on BiH. Since the European Parliament resolution explicitly states that BiH will not be a successful candidate for EU membership until appropriate institutional conditions are established. It calls on all political leaders to work to introduce necessary changes including reform of electoral law, taking into account the principles laid down in earlier resolutions such as the principles of federalism, decentralisation and legitimate representation. The resolution of the House of Representatives, which also at the principle level opposes the principles of federalism, is directly opposed to the European Parliament resolution which directly threatens the prospects of BiH's further path towards EU membership. The resolution wants to maintain and strengthen the national supremation of Bosniaks over Croats in BiH. The national compromise mentioned in the Resolution definitely exists in BiH, but it is reflected primarily in the institutionalised possibility for Bosniaks to elect a Croatian member of the BiH presidency even if all Croats in the Federation vote for another candidate, and that representatives of the county parliaments elected by the votes of Bosniaks select a two-thirds majority of the Serb and other representatives of the Croatians in the House of Peoples of the Federation. Thus, the Federation of BiH has been de facto converted into a Bosniak entity, i.e. an entity with Bosniak domination. The resolution confirms the aforementioned domination of Bosniaks over Croats in the Federation of BiH. My colleagues and fellow MPs, due to these numbered reasons, have been invited by representatives of the Bosniak parties to withdraw the resolution. If our request does not come out quickly, we will make sure that we inform all the competent authorities of the EU and its members of the anti-day, anti-European, non-democracy and hegemonistic nature of the adoption act of the Resolution, and take decisive political measures to protect the Deyton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH, the European pathway and the Croatian constitutionality... I expect the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to react in accordance with their obligations both as signatories of Dayton and as a member of the EU and as the basis of their Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25054	Representative Boris Milosevic will speak on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25055	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. A month ago, the Church of St. The great martyr of Georgia in Krisca and St. George's Church in Velusic, these are two churches that were broken in at the same time. Fifteen days later, the Drniš Police Station found that between Sunday and Wednesday of 6.3rd, it broke into five Orthodox churches in the Drniš area in Baljci, Stikov, Miocić and Kanjani, and again the Church of St. George in Krisca. Then we have a break-in in the village of Vrbnik where on the night between 9 and 10.3. so a few days after these five churches broke into and the Church of St. Nicole in the village of Vrbnik. 19.3. The police came out and found that a burglary and Orthodox church in... After that, on the night between 20th and 21st, vandals broke into the church in Miocic again, and again for the third time the church was broken into the Kriškas, so St. George's Church. Personally, I visited some of the churches that had been broken into with his reassurance of Episcopal by the Dalmatian Mr. Photo. So the material damage is insignificant, only the door was broken, nothing was stolen. It is evident from this that this is not about burglary for material gain, so three times the same church where nothing has been stolen in which there is really nothing to steal, but the target of the attack is Orthodox churches, worship, spiritual and cultural heritage of Dalmatia. This is an act of insulting the honor and dignity of Orthodox believers who cause fear and concern for people in the area. So I'm using this opportunity and a pay phone to condemn this act, and to break in and express my personal concerns because we have less in a month nine burglaries that haven't actually broken in to gain material benefit. I believe the police are doing everything they can, but I still appeal to Minister Orepic and the police, the Sibenik-Knin Police Administration, to step up its efforts to discover the perpetrators of these misdeeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25056	The SDP representative club also called for a break and will speak for them by representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25057	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It's credible. It is a credible word that marked the campaign for the previous parliamentary elections, but as well as many words that are thus being prostituted, and it was given a whole other meaning after these parliamentary elections. However, one of these meanings that was authentic in Croatia, a few days ago warned Moody's rating agency when it stated in its 2015 report, I quote: "Agrocor's accounting is unclear. The cash flow includes several unpublished non-cash items. It is difficult to analyse the data in financial reports because certain items have not been published and some are not sufficient explanations." I'm sure you're wondering, colleagues and colleagues, what does this have to do with the announced topic of this pause regarding the credibility of individual members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, it's very big. Namely, respected colleagues and colleagues in the Republic of Croatia make it difficult to make financial reports in which the transparency of business or certain items is covered up is a criminal offence and a criminal offence prosecuted by official duty. And one member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and not any one, the finance minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia has an interesting item, which reads: "2012-2016. Agrokor. One of the Executive Directors for the Strategy and the Capital Market, the area of responsibility for international financing, relations with investors, merger and takeover." I'll repeat Agrokor's accounting is unclear. The cash flow includes several unpublished non-cash items. It is difficult to analyse data in financial reports because certain items are not published, and some are not sufficient explanations. It is not up to me or to me to say that Minister Maric committed a crime, it is at the State's Attorney's Office. The state's attorney's office will carry out the procedure, determine if there are any elements of the crime here and who committed it. However, it is up to me to point to credibility. The credibility of the minister who was the executive director in Agrokor at the time when Moody's interventions took place in financial reports. But not only that, Honored counterpart Maric, as minister a few weeks ago, made a public announcement that he would not participate in Agrokor procedures. Why? Because he was repeatedly warned by the public, by fellow politicians that because of his previous position, a high-ranking article in the governance structure of Agrokor could be in conflict of interest. And what does Minister Maric do after announcing that he will not participate in the proceedings of Agrokor? By his own admission, he meets with investors and talks with them about Agrokor. My colleagues and colleagues, conflict of interest very clearly. I'll finish. A series of procedures for conflict of interest have been launched against Minister Maric as we have learned from the media. Today I call on him, but not for his sake, but for his duty to comply with the law, to bring his conduct in line with the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, to stop breaking the law, to exempt himself, but not by words, but to really exempt himself from the decision and to act as an official must. At the same time, I ask the committee to decide on a conflict of interest that if Minister Maric will not do what must be done as quickly as possible to prevent this conflict of interest that is evident to everyone in the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25058	The intergenerational solidarity party also reported for a break. In their name will speak MP Rezimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25059	Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I have already warned from this pay phone on several occasions about discrimination or the possibility of discrimination against older people. I also related this to the issue of parliamentary representatives' immunity when they debate from a pay phone or from a post in the sense that the debate is turned into a prosecutor's office and into a court. It is not an immunity that would give the representative the right to an opinion on the subject and in the way of voting. Dear fellow Dodig, on a few occasions you have actually called on this pay phone to guard honor and reputation, the integrity of the Parliament, it seems to me to be oblivious. Namely, the reason for this move is that I read on the portals, full of them, colleagues of Pernar who actually spoke in front of high school students in Rijeka about the fact that people over 65 years of age would have a place on the side of the bench, people of 90 years of age waiting for time in Mirogoje or any other city cemetery, that people over 65 had no developed critical opinion because they were manipulated and programmed by the media. So we, too, are about 13 MPs in this House over 60 years old, and I don't know what we're doing in the Parliament, and we don't have a critical opinion. Mr. President, yesterday I read your statement, unfortunately yesterday I was on an official path to the Ethics Code, I was a supporter of the Ethics Code, I don't believe, I simply doubt that with the best intention we will address the issue of a broken reputation of this House. Yesterday I spoke in front of 600 eighth graders at the Vukovar Memorial Center. You know what those kids ask me? And what do you in Parliament fight about all the time? 8th grade. That's because we allow, something that doesn't go into my head with that humble legal knowledge and experience. Immunity of the representatives for the opinion and voting but not for the charges and the court. Not for the charges and the court from this pay phone. We call upon the people, and when that people sue us at the same time, then we don't take off our immunity. I argue responsibly that we must break this practice, that practice must be interrupted, so we will come to the conclusion that our discussions will be much more serious, more constructive and related. Where do we get the right to appeal to the people and not guarantee them the right to exercise their right in court because there's no way to get here from this pay phone? Where did we get that right? We say when the mandate stops, it doesn't get old. How many of you sit here for four or five terms? And the one you accused died and the Stigma remains on his family. My colleagues and colleagues, immunity for the opinion of the bill, the decision of the conclusion that, immunity for voting yes, but immunity for suing and trial from this public pay phone is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u25060	We're moving on to the agenda. The first item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive materials and archives, first reading, P.Z. No. 104. The proposal shall be made by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists on the basis of Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 184. Rules of Procedure. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You will now receive reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Nikola Grumoja, representative at the club of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34826	Dear President, colleagues and fellow advocates. I see the theme is hot, I've already got a replica, I haven't even started talking. So almost 20 years ago, the young Croatian state, after the completion of the famous Homeland War, successful defence and its sovereignty and territorial integrity, and the consolidation of all institutions, joined the legal arrangement of domestic archival activity. In September 1997, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Archive materials and archives, which lay the foundations of contemporary Croatian archivist activity and which, with minor changes to date, survived in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. At the time, rare participants in the process of passing the law could predict that a debate on the availability of a part of the archive material would be reopened in Croatian society after so long. Unfortunately, time has shown that just now the Archival Law has become a major obstacle to scientific research into recent Croatian history. Because of the lack of archive material from the Yugoslav communist regime, historians have so far had no opportunity to carry out credible scientific research based on archival material as a reliable source of information on historical facts and events. If Croatian experiences are compared with the experiences of other contemporary European democracies that have had a similar historical path, it becomes clear that Croatian society has been left alone in efforts to avoid facing the historical truths and consequences of the communist regime that had all the characteristics of totalitarian dictatorship. Basically, it was a regime which, without prejudice to what fundamental human rights had been violated, had been advocating the logic of the state's concept of government and civil society in which terror over its own people had been imposed upon the authority of a party and which had primarily drawn its legitimacy out of fear. In doing so, he made particular efforts to identify the valley's distinctive features of tradition and value, and the dignity of the people in the former Yugoslavia. In this regard, the Croatian people were exposed to the most harsh historical manipulations and various forms of coercion. Unfortunately, even in modern Croatia, it has not been able to find relevant and sincere political will so far to establish objectively, honestly and truthfully important historical facts and to expose the methods of the Yugoslav communist regime. This is why we are in public space daily exposed to manipulations, history that dissolve only the tissues of the Croatian national being and share it, and as a society we live in ignorance of the ways of work and methods used by the communist dictatorship, thus also provoking the repetition of harsh historical errors. In view of the above, the Club of Representatives of MOST decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of amendments to the Law on Archive materials and archives, believing that the time had finally come to be true and fully established and value historical facts from the time that directly preceded the creation of a modern Croatian state. When drawing up this proposal, we have considered all the experiences of other European countries that have long taken considerable efforts to edit and open archives from the times of the failed communist systems. We took particular note of the European Parliament's recommendation, which in its 2009 Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism, expressed regrets that 20 years after the collapse of communist dictatorships in Central and Eastern Europe, access to documents necessary for scientific research is still without reason in some Member States, and called on me to quote that a real effort is being made in all Member States towards the opening of archives, including those from the former service of internal security, secret police and intelligence agencies. My colleagues and colleagues, now that I have presented to you the motives that we have led in proposing this law, I would like to present the main features of this proposal and the objectives that we wanted to achieve. Initially, as the main principle of the Archive Law, we wanted to point out that archive material must be available for use on equal terms. None of the users of the archives should ask and this was the main problem, to specify initiatives, reasons or purpose of their research. We consider this principle to be the cornerstone of modern archival activity that stems from the importance of archival material as good of particular cultural and historical importance for the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people. Furthermore, as a particularly important issue that we wish to resolve by this law, we have proposed to regulate a special legal regime that would apply to public archive material that was created before 22 December 1990. The resolution of this issue has proved in a legal sense particularly demanding since it covers several different aspects. That's where we were in the biggest trouble. In particular, these aspects relate to the need to prescribe the availability of part of that archive material before the expiry of the regular availability deadlines. (b) To the need to declassify data that are marked by some of the degrees of secrecy during the former state. And the question has also arisen, and this will be the main issue in this debate, the question of the availability of personal data. We have also recognised the problem of the availability of the former Federation of Communists of Croatia, which has been declared state property since 1997, but has often proved to be inaccessible to researchers because of individual legal relations between the Croatian State Archives and the legal person who claims to be a legal follower of the Croatian Union. We propose to resolve the issues described so that, by force of the law itself, all forms of public archive material are made available until December 22, 1990, as well as the ones marked by one of the designations of secrecy. When we talk about availability, we think about two aspects. First, as the full opening of everything that is already in the archive, avoiding really strange situations, for example, that today is required by the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia to approve the declassification of archive material from the former state. What does the Ministry of State have to do with the former state? We have in practice such absurd situations as to require declassification from the Croatian state body for documents of the fifth army district of JNA. In future, we want to avoid and make it clear that the Republic of Croatia has no obligation or intention to protect the secrets of a former and failed state. In addition, it is absurd for our historians to make it easier for them to obtain materials related to the Republic of Croatia from that period in archives in Belgrade or in Ljubljana than in Zagreb. Second. In order to ensure the availability of archive material, it is primarily necessary to keep the material in archives, which is one key prerequisite. Today we have a whole series of situations that parts of the materials in the archives are missing either because they are still in the creator's office or because it is a much worse situation that the material is of first-rate importance for Croatian history or destroyed or ended up in private archives. That is why we propose a kind of inventory of what is today in the creator and unconditional surrender to the archives of everything that should be in the archives. The solution mentioned concerns the material of all levels of state, regional, local authorities from that period, as well as the material of former social political organisations including the Croatian Union, since this material also has the legal status of public archive material. Furthermore, we wanted to make this law available and archive material containing personal data, whose creators were the bodies of state, regional and local authorities, as well as the bodies of the entire repressive apparatus of the judiciary, police and secret service and social policy organization, in particular, taking into account that the material must always be available to the person to whom it refers, enabling defence from various random or deliberate, difamatory claims that appear in public from time to time. So we also appreciated the Polish experience where it happened that someone was accused of being an associate of the former regime and a man couldn't get in his defense all the data and all the documents that concern him personally because you have a situation in which one document says that you are an associate of certain services, and then in another document you have that it was an action that tried to compromise you. Unfortunately, I said that today we have a situation that parts of the archive material and of the archives and especially the one outside the archives appear in public, and that the persons to whom such publications relate do not have access to it or to others for them and the exercise of their rights to important archival material. So that's what we solved in this bill. In addition to the mentioned capital facts, we consider it necessary to regulate a number of other issues of particular importance for the functioning of archives and their relations with users. For example, we suggest that deadlines for handing over archival material to archives without exceptional respect. It's about deadlines that are long enough, they're 30 years old, so the creators, the material holders have enough time to prepare material for surrender as well as archives to prepare for receiving materials especially in today's time when modern technical means allow easy and relatively cheap copying or even better digitizing the originals that are being submitted to the archive. For the sake of the legal certainty of the users, we also want to make clear the obligation of the archives that a decision refusing to give material to use should fully explain this decision, and that the user has an effective means of legal protection in the form of a administrative dispute. So now it happens that the archive refuses to give you certain documents without explanation. We have now prescribed that this must be explained and that you have as a user against such a decision an effective means of legal protection in the form of a administrative dispute. Furthermore, in a series of norms, we want to remove certain legal ambiguities and specific conflicts with the provisions of this law with the provisions of other laws, such as the Laws on the right to access information, on the confidentiality of data, on the protection of personal data and others. These conflicts of law have put archives in a position to decide whether to give archival material to use or to seek a solution to a conflict of several laws, which challenges for top lawyers, not for people working in the archives or to solve the problem through months of seeking guidance or authorisation to act from various authorities. To avoid such situations in the future, we also intend to arrange the work of the archives in a way that archives as far as possible apply one archival law as a special law governing the area. As a particular problem, there has also been a question of the price of services that archives charge their users, which greatly exceed the actual costs incurred for archives. This also makes it particularly impossible to access archive material. We believe that this law too should be resolved, given that high prices of archive services can be an objective obstacle to the use of archive material. You should talk to lawyers in some cases how much money is spent on these services, for example in this trial in Munich, which was, how much money had to be paid for photocopying all these documents. Please also pay attention to the transitional and final provisions which prescribe the taking of expert supervision by the creators of the archive material that was created by 22 December 1990 and the obligation to hand over and download that material as soon as possible. These transitional provisions are of particular importance because they ensure that we finally establish the true truth about the scales of destruction and concealment of archive material from the period of the communist regime, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia reports this. So we are looking through this legal solution for the Government to report on this by the Croatian Parliament. As a conclusion to this brief opening presentation, I call on this law to be discussed in a balanced and respectful manner with respect to those who think differently from us. In particular, I ask you to take care of the many victims of the half-century communist terror in your discussions. Let us not have this debate that will inspire different feelings among us and in the people, leading to the invaluable sacrifice suffered by individuals, their families, but also by the Croatian people as a unique and indivisible whole. Let us refrain from well - known attempts to relativize one’s victims by pointing to other victims. Instead, I call on you to help take a civilizational step and consensus with your constructive remarks and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34827	Representative Zeljko Glasnovic first reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34828	Dear President of the Parliament. Dear Representative Grmoja, I congratulate you on one of the most important exhibitions in the Croatian Parliament in the modern Croatian state. Truth and freedom are closely linked as marriage, if they don't live in harmony, they're gradually falling apart here for the last 45 years, almost dying. The main causes of evil and division in Croatia have never been exposed communist crimes. Who's stopping that catharsis? Is that... where are the heirs and the biggest crime organization and history of Southeast Europe, the communist party of Yugoslavia? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the heirs of that terrorist organization that didn't start with the killings, the ecocid, actually the democracy, the etocide, the aristocide not '45. It's '41. To this day, until the '90s? If they're not interested in some, there aren't half the Croatian MPs, they're not interested, they're not interested in the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people, tortured hundreds of thousands, imprisonment, etc. And they're interested in hunting. And to ask ourselves, what about the economic crime, the kidnapping of millions of acres of stolen agricultural land, 5,000 companies since '45, '48? etc., where they are destroyed and no one is saying that fundamental human rights have been destroyed, that is why Croatia is where it is today, has destroyed the entire concept of private ownership, confiscation, nationalisation. That's why 5% of the land books are taken care of, that's why they'll never come here. That's part... That commission for me is once again a smoke screen. It's like the Sicilian mob is investigating the Sicilian mob. Because half the people sitting there are from that former system. Second, what about the retroactive laws of murder, robbery, torture? You've got people sitting around today. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] who were a member of that, that organization, that... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34829	.../Adversity President: Representative Glasnović is out of time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34830	Thank you very much, retroactive laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34831	Thank you. Before I allow a reply to the replica, what I forgot to say, I am aware that today will be a heated debate but I think it can be conducted without insult. So you'll also have the possibility of a broader explanation of the context but I think we can do all of this without, especially, personal insult. I'm aware that many have doctored on this subject for the last 25 years, figuratively speaking, but regardless, I think we can have a quality discussion. The answer to the replica? No, I don't. Representative Ivan Lovrinović reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34832	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I would ask only the esteemed representative of Grmoy, the archives are important sources of our recent and ancient history of this people, and we really need to sort that out. Let's do it as soon as possible, there's no reason not to open it, let's open it wide. And we absolutely support it. I'm sorry we're dealing with the past and doing it all the time. However, dear colleague Grmoya, I'm sure you've studied this area well, so can you tell us today where this archive is, where it's being kept, for example? I got the impression of what you said wasn't in one place, so I even heard it shushing, that it was kept in various places by former failed factories, warehouses. Can you tell me if it's being held by more visible members or by some of their connected individuals of the current structures of one and the other party or former governments? Can we trust that way, because you're saying that a part of that building was alienated? I am concerned about this party Let's change Croatia because you've brought out some indicative ones, among the lines it can be read that we're leading around. And yet another observation, I can't help but think that in this case you're continuing with one of your coalition partner's hygienes, getting in line, at least that's what I think. But let's let it end, it's more important that we know something about these general things because these are really important things about paper, history. Let's clear this up once and let's, let's start putting topics in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34833	Replication response, Mr. Grmoi's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34834	Dear colleague Lovrinović, I absolutely agree, which is why we feel that this should be resolved as soon as possible so that we do not deal with it anymore. You saw that I didn't, so Col. Glasovic had one reaction, I didn't want to get into such discussions, I think it's time to open it all up, let the historians do it, let those who do research on that period, to bring down some tensions. And I think that only some reconciliation and reduction of those divisions will occur if we know the truth. The truth is the only solution for everything, and I absolutely agree with you. As far as this is concerned, we're going to ask all the followers of these organizations to hand over this archival structure. And now, with all the private archives and archive material in place, I can't know right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34835	Representative Miranda Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34836	When I don't know what you're going to do with the future, then you're going back into the past, and this law is clear to me that the law that is related to local elections is because both you and HDZ, so both MOST and HDZ are fighting for the same electoral body. And it is clear that this law is only because of it and it means nothing to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is what happened behind the 1990s at the time of privatisation, what was then happening, what were the documents. And that's what's important to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because maybe some myths that have been going through for years would have been torn down. We have nothing, neither I personally nor the SDP to pass this law, to adopt it in the form in which I hope the Most and HDZ will agree. And it's obvious from yesterday to today that they obviously don't have the same views of that law. Because the spear will break in HDZ, gentlemen, it will not break in the SDP over what this law will look like. The law will see the light of day, but obviously not as predicted by the Most, but as agreed by the HDZ. And for the end of one question, I know you'll be replicating me, so just answer me yes or no. Did you use Mr Hasanbegovic's advice in writing this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34837	Thank you. Replication response, Nikola Grumoja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34838	Dear fellow Mrsic, I will answer this last question immediately. A colleague, Hasanbegovic at all, means in any way he did not participate in the drafting of this law. We consulted people who were researching archives, we consulted lawyers who had problems with the availability of archive material. We have consulted the experiences of post-Communist countries and made an excellent bill. So when you're saying that practically this means nothing to no one. You can't do that, so I called in the debate, to refrain, to have consideration for the people who are victims of this regime. So you've now sent a message that, for example, the Djurekovic family does not mean anything to this bill and we know what trouble they went through to get certain documents. This is one of the legal proposals that MOST sent to the procedure. So we've referred to not exactly 9 or 10 legislative proposals and everyone's dealing with the future, and this one, I think, is a supply for a better future, a future without division, without baseless accusations and everything else we've seen in this House. Let's close this story more, let's leave, let's open it all up. We don't have any, here you are saying there's nothing to be afraid of. HDZ colleagues say they have nothing to be afraid of. So let's open it up more. Why are we hanging out, accusing ourselves, we always have the same stories here Ustasha, Partisans, Fates. Let's open it all up, let's get to the truth, and that's the only way into a healthier and happier future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34839	Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34840	You're arbitraryly setting the border on December 22nd, '90. A year. So you're cutting off the limitation period by about three years, so in about three years, it would be 30 years. All right. But you're saying that the purpose of this law is to prevent some people's difamation and I support it. I also support this bill of yours, and I particularly support that intensities to prevent any dispersion. So I invite you to move that deadline a little further, to include, for example, war years. Because I've had enough of this talk about, diphamping people about, for example, the Gojko Shuska family getting rich in the war, that the poor came, and that after the war, they were rich, that the late President Tudjman banned from breaking through Bogdanovci to Vukovar to get the children out of Vukovar, so we can find out. That some HDZs traded oil with the enemy in the war and that's how they got rich. I've had enough of that difamation. Why don't we move that deadline to war years, and finally find out the truth about it. I think that truth is far more interesting to the citizens than this truth from the 1950s or the 1960s.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34841	The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34842	Dear fellow Stazic, you have again resorted to a populist story. So you haven't talked about this subject at all, so that means about this law. That's what I said to my colleague Milenic on the committee. So he says as former justice minister let's investigate conversion and privatisation. So what do you think about opening archives from the '90s to solve the issue of conversion and privatisation? So we would have some, we might have some knowledge more but we have the institutions of this state, we have the institutions of this state that need to investigate the crime of all the political options that were in power. And if we sitting here in the Croatian Parliament don't believe it, that means the institutions of this state, if we don't believe that they can improve if they're working now, but here's the general consensus that our judiciary isn't working, let's do it, let's advance, explore both the 1990s and everything else. To pass laws that will allow everything to be explored. I don't have a problem with that. I was ten in the '90s. I was ninety-first ten years old. But maybe some of you sitting here will have a problem with that, I don't. But this law doesn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34843	Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34844	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague of the bush, therefore what we can safely conclude and will be seen from this debate. Croatian society is divided and what has been said lately, and the intensity of this law is facing the past. Because if we don't face the past, the past faces us. You said it was a very good basis for scientific research. In that sense, you have full support, because I think this law can bring some good. Because there are those people, you know, who live in divisions, who divide these products because they also base their political careers on them, and ultimately, they base their personal breakthroughs on them. And that's why it seems to me that this is very important. But what I'm afraid might prove in this debate, what we're doing right now is not Sisif's job, because Sisif's job is part of life. We're always something, actually someone said we're not here to find, but to look. I'm more afraid this is more like blowing leaves in the wind. Do you ever grind leaves in the wind? It's hard, you know, running away. Because the same people in that system used the benefits of that system that they ate like this we're going to say, with a big spoon, hiding behind the star, today these people are hiding behind the cross. They're causing divisions, they're making bigger Catholics than the Pope, and that's the problem with this society. And if this law will help to resolve it, of course I personally support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34845	Replication response, Mr. Grmoi's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34846	Comrade Sagar, I couldn't agree more, and I think it's time for us to conclude this story. So when we speak, here is my colleague Milenić talking about it, and my colleague Stazic needs to investigate the 1990s, and many of those who were communist directors and others participated in criminal conversion and privatisation, many of them. So what kind of family are these? Well, I'm not gonna talk here right now, but that's the team. About the same ones, so this is a kind and transformed disclosure, so this bill. That's why I expect you to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34847	Representative Branimir Bunjac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34848	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grmoya, it is certainly timed today because of the need for local elections. In fact, given the turmoil in HDZ, you felt that it was a good time to take a part of that electoral body. Your ruling coalition obviously doesn't work locally and it's actually a struggle for that electoral body in terms of who has more credit for opening the archives. So here's the situation today that you have one law, the HDZ has another law, so whose law will be first, and then he'll be able to say we're the most responsible, you have to vote for us. It certainly wasn't the wisest thing to time this law. But here we are from the Living Wall, no matter what, we will submit ourselves to a higher goal and we will support this law of yours, we will probably support the other one when it is, if it is, to finally open the way to the truth, so that Croatian society comes a step closer to healing, in order to move into the future mentioned by MP Lovrinović, without weight on its feet or as some say without closed tail in the door. We believe that this law is also good for science, that this law is good for both the archives themselves and that, in fact, given that this country that we are talking about today has ceased to exist, there is no need for the archives and its work and its institutions to be inaccessible to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34849	The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34850	Dear comrade Bunjac, I thank you for your support and for what you've said. Practically, attitudes are consistent except that you said this was a kind of game before the local elections. So here's what I'm going to say is that local elections certainly use this to reach a consensus here on this bill because it would probably hurt anyone to be against this bill. So when this hasn't been done for 20 and a few years, then maybe it's politically wise to put it now to get here how I see here consensual support for this bill of ours. So I am very pleased and I think that we have just well timed this bill and that it will receive the support of this entire Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34851	Croatian representative Zekanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34852	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs. Here's the proposer Mr. Grumoja has several times used the word consensus and I think that's actually the key word to be mentioned here, or what it's all about. When we talk about consensus, there is a consensus in the Croatian society regarding resolutions, i.e. regulations and EU declarations, so here I would read what the EU says in its resolutions on the communist regimes, we have several resolutions. We have the one from 1996, which is called measures to break the legacy of communism and totalitarianism, and we still have a 2006 resolution, which is the resolution on the need for condemnation of all totalitarian communist regimes. The resolution says "The totalitarian communist regimes that ruled in Central and Eastern Europe in the last century, which in power in several other countries of the world were without exception marked by mass violations of human rights, injuries differed depending on culture, country and historical period and included individual and collective killings, executions, deaths in concentration camps", etc. We have a consensus in Croatian society, for example. about the condemnation of regimes that were during World War II, unfortunately the condemnation of the regime that existed since '45. '90s. We don't have years. We have a problem here, and that is that we have a party in the Croatian Parliament today, which is the SDP, which is the legal follower of the former Communist Party of Yugoslavia, pardon the Communist Party of Croatia. That's one problem, but it'll be a lot easier for you, too. I'm very sorry that this is so when at one point you say or make a distance from what happened in that period and then those stories are from the past that Mrsic is from the past. A little while ago, you mentioned that they're being talked about will be irrelevant when we have a consensus in this House. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34853	The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34854	Dear colleague Zekanovic, here I thank you for your contribution to this topic. As far as the SDP is concerned, I do not consider the SDP to be a legal follower of the KPJ, and I am confident that over time it will clarify and that the SDP will distance itself from the KPJ. It should also be called into question if someone calls for the legal sequence and calls for it to be done for a certain property benefit, space and everything else to be taken into account then what with the crimes that the party has committed and then whether SDP is responsible for it and whether people who mean they have suffered some damage from the communist party Yugoslavia to file charges for compensation against the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34855	Representative Tomislav Klaric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34856	Since my early childhood, I have learned two history, one in school, and one in my family. In the end, it turned out to be the only true history I had ever learned in my family. You mentioned that parts of the material are missing, and that's why I called in the replica, and that's what I'm afraid of. So from high-ranking officials or heads of the SDP county organisation in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County years and years ago and only recently in the conversation and more than one of them I learned that in the 1990s when the government was changed, they were ordered to burn the documentation. The documentation was as I was told burned on the slopes of Učka and on.... Who burns the paperwork? Who burns the evidence. Why is he hiding all these years? Why hasn't that been talked about so far? I don't think there's a man in Croatia who's taught those two history, whose family died no matter which side and the Second World War, and especially after that, especially after that, because they killed not only the other side but they killed their own. We remember that parole of revolutions eating their own people. And "Glog of the Island" and everything that's been going on. And just these replicas before me have moved me to speak this way. We heard here that who cares what happened before the '90s, I'm interested, my family is interested, many thousands of families in Croatia. We've heard here where President Tudjman's name is already known for Vukovar, we've heard of Gojko Suška's wealth. Hey, I guess somebody wants to fight back maybe HDZ and MOST and HSS and the others that we think this way. It won't work. Let's pass this law, make it the best we can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34857	The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34858	My dear colleague, here I am thanking you for supporting this bill. As for what you said, I'd like this debate to move away from this party's pretext of accusing this party or that party. So the fact is that within the system and state, local, regional authorities, they survived independently of the party's people who played an important role means in the former communist regime. So, I would like this debate to move away from these party charges and that, together as I called at the beginning of the consensus, and it is good for the health of Croatian society to have all the political parties in Croatia fenced from the regime, from the alliances of the communists of Yugoslavia and what the repressive communist system did.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34859	Davor Vladovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34860	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleague Grumo, HSS and I are personally very interested in passing such a law because in the last century, the HSS was banned from the former government. The members of the HSS are persecuted, murdered, imprisoned, and the real truth has never been found out, and of course we're in favour of this law to open the archives. My question is why did you not agree your views with your partner in the government with HDZ because this morning, on the Committee on Law, I heard that the Ministry of Culture is preparing a comprehensive law on archives. Whether this law will be part of that law, why you couldn't agree to do it together because the laws and our taxpayers are interested in how taxpayers' money is spent because this is uneconomically and irrationally that in a month or in two weeks we discuss two law on archives and we all have the same goal. And secondly, what our agricultural producers are interested in is why when you have already pressured your partner to go pass the Archive Act, do not pressure him to finally come to the Assembly and the Law on unfair commercial practice and to protect our agricultural production. The agricultural land law that our family farms can reach agricultural land and not that it happens to us that because of the problem with Agrokora the Russian company takes over the management of state agricultural land in Baranja and around Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34861	The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34862	My dear colleague, here I am thanking the HSS Club for supporting this bill. I'm glad we have one general consensus in support of what the Most gave. As for the bill of law prepared by the Ministry of Culture, only after this announcement began talking and talking about the third quarter. It has been said that in almost two or three weeks, or I don't know, a summer break will come up with a bill. I think we've accelerated certain processes here. But since we already have one quality legal proposal that solves one narrow area, and I believe that the law that will solve the entire field of archivism requires a longer period of time to be prepared. I don't see any reason not to support this. And I saw that we have support here in the Croatian Parliament. And as for the Law on Unfair Trade Practice, here was a colleague of Roma who had just prepared the law along with his associate, Karalic, and here I see that now Minister Tolusic, the law that had welcomed him finished at the Ministry of Agriculture, will soon refer to the procedure which is very good and I am convinced that we will all support it here. And congratulations, here comes fellow Romic and Mr. Karalic for preparing this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34863	Representative Kresho Beljak is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34864	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Grmoja, it seems to me that you are deliberately throwing sand into people's eyes, i.e. to Croatian citizens. Or you're so naive that you know that by passing this law, you won't achieve anything. Namely, the archives are gone. Together, we all know that things were happening there at the end of the 1980s in the second half of the 1980s when the secret services of the former state were well prepared for 1990, for the parliamentary first free under the supposed parliamentary elections where Croatia "cut down Kurt and rode Murt". The true sincere Croatian patriots who were persecuted suffered unfortunately from the Croatian hand. Remember Ante Paradjik, remember Blaž Kraljević, remember Mira Barisic and the bullet in the back of the Croatian side. It was not the Croatian side, but it was the side that you are now trying to chat about, which is basically still the government, i.e. it continued to rule Croatia after 1990. No archives, no archives. And we at the HSS are the first, of course, to open up if they exist. We got rid of our communists. Branko Hrg, skirmish president of the Municipality of Križevci, where he belongs, where everyone else is communist.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34865	Mr. Whitey, I must give you a heads-up at this point. I'd like to beg, I've asked that there be no offense to your personal...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34866	Well, that's not insulting, that's true. Is that an insult?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34867	.../Intruder President: Please!/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34868	If he insults anyone that he was a member of the SCOY, I apologize, it doesn't offend me. But that's a fact, that's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34869	.../Intruder President: I didn't say.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34870	I'm going to stand up straight. It's not Mr. Branko Hrg, it's Comrade Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34871	.../Intruder President: Representative Beljak, I only ask you to adjust rhetoric if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34872	Thank you very much. You've taken my time, but here I am going back to Mr. Bolt, my colleague. I know he's a historian and he's very interested in these topics. But I'm also sure this law is only in service of the coming local elections. Mr. Grmoya is a young man, I said he was 10 at the time unburdened. I ask you, on behalf of those hundreds of thousands of young people who have left our country and who do not care what happened in the 1990s, to finally start doing something for the Croatian future, and to leave the past to historians as you are or to return to school.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34873	Mr. Grmoy's representative, reply to the replica. I'd just like you to turn it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34874	Dear fellow Whitey, here's a little bit of tension here. I tried to argue even though I was temperamental, I tried to calm her down. If we're gonna go back to school together, that's how you came from school. And as for this other thing you said, we're dealing with the future. I just mentioned that this law on unfair commercial practice mentioned by your colleague that he's been prepared in our ministry, is another dozen laws. And as for the fact that all archives are destroyed, they're not. It's impossible to destroy everything and cover it up. Here's an interesting one. One of the key documents for the Munich trial was found in the archives of the Croatian Parliament, so here, one of the key documents. So it's not possible to destroy everything. Yeah, one part's been destroyed, but it's not possible to destroy everything. It's in the interest of both researchers and all of us who want to know the truth to open it all up. Of course this isn't the key question, but let's get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34875	Representative Branko Bačić reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34876	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Grmoi, the Croatian Democratic Community, to be clear, is absolutely in favour of the fundamental objective set out in these amendments to the law. Not only supports this goal, but requires that all archives that are not yet available from the time of the former state be opened, and in particular to declassify the archives of the Croatian Communist Union, or the Communist Party of Croatia, which is not yet available to the public. And in that sense, the absolute HDZ stands at the point of view that such a law should be passed. What is important is to say that President Andrej Plenkovic announced the adoption of this law at the first meeting of the government on 27 October last year, announced the opening of the archives and that the process is part of the context of Croatia's, Croatian society with the past of totalitarian regimes. In this regard, the government sent an opinion from its session yesterday on this law in which it had problems with certain parts of this law in the professional section. What the profession says and what is a fundamental observation of the profession to this law is a non-selective approach to this law on the one hand to the perpetrator, and on the other hand to the victim. We don't want to, and we don't want people in the repressive apparatus to be protected like this once again and become victims. And in this sense, the government has written its opinion, announced that before the summer break, the whole bill will come in a procedure that will include this amendment to the law that you have mentioned. As far as speculation about local HDZ elections is concerned, there are no problems. We will win these elections independently who and in what way was the legislator of this law So we support [[The President's incursion: Time.]] This fundamental goal I mentioned earlier. [[Adversity President: Time is up for MP Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34877	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34878	Dear counterpart Bačić, you are one of the few representatives in this Croatian Assembly who can speak overly competently and overly about many topics, but let me know a little more what we have prepared and what it says in this bill and what the Government has said. There is no possibility that, meaning separates, means if we want to open the archives that separate means sacrifice and persecutor. So if we want to find out the facts about this regime, then we need to make available all the documents that certain parts of the repressive apparatus have led to the victims of that regime. So what you're proposing or if that's the government's proposal, that's absolutely what I'm telling you right now is absolutely impossible. He also mentioned the secretary of state, the German model. This bill of law is most similar to the Czech model and it is the most liberal, so we will have the most liberal law if they accept it, I am convinced that it will pass in this House. So the most liberal law that will make all the archives of the former system fully available. So basically if your intensity is all open, then HDZ as well as SDP, HSS, Live Wall, you will all support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34879	Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34880	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this Parliament and we in it need to respect history and history because history is a teacher of life, above all to discuss the things that are happening today for Croatian citizens to live better tomorrow. I am afraid that this law, which today is in the first reading, will in no way contribute to a better life, that wages are higher, that education is better quality and that health care is more accessible, and that is why I believe that it is actually this very time that is brought about for daily political reasons. I agree it's the '97 Archive Act. lack, to perfect, to improve, to refresh, but it could wait. You'd be much happier if we had a minimum wage bill on the agenda today. So I call on my colleague, Grumo, to contribute with his influence that this law should be the first one on the agenda to be discussed after this law. What I'm trying to say for the public who is following this debate, the SDP has no problem opening the archives. The SDP actually has the least communists that have done damage, they are now mostly in HDZ and other parties. At his first convention on November 3, 1990, the SDP brought a historical declaration apologising to all those who had suffered any harm, injustice, hurt dignity because of the political action of the Communist Union and what was particularly significant, let the public know, '95. The SDP has handed over all the archives of the Communist Union to the State Archives for protection and treatment. Therefore,
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34881	/Intruder Petrov: Please refrain from intervention./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34882	...be polite. You're not a judicial officer here. You're a congressman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34883	Representative Jovanovic, just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34884	Well, she can't concentrate on me like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34885	I warned the counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34886	So, here's another one, I'm out of time. Just tell me why you think sexual behavior 40 years ago is important to someone today so that the Croatian public can learn about it and to what extent will this law be a burden on the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34887	The answer to the replica of the representative of Thunder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34888	Comrade Jovanovic, you have done exactly what this bill solves. You brought yourself a court of communists who committed major crimes during the former regime, you already know which foreigners they are in. And you didn't support any documents, you accused them, so maybe that's the case, but maybe they're flat-rate accusations that are repeated over and over again, and we want to put an end to it. Who's a bigger criminal, who's married, let those who are interested in it or who are doing some kind of research. Let's break this story more and that's exactly why this bill is good. As for minimum wage, I think this government has on one occasion raised the minimum salary of more SDP governments in two or three years, I don't know exactly now, maybe in all four years if we talk about it. As far as the other draft laws are concerned, all our proposals for law enforcement law, the Law on HRT, the fact that we've abolished and that was one of our conditions, the tax on behalf of the company, all going to encourage entrepreneurship, helping people who are the most threatened, all of our legal proposals. But this is what we have to deal with, and we finally have to conclude, it's just the intensity, there's no other intensity. And why, when you talk about pre-election time, you didn't bring this bill at the beginning of your term, that no one can object to you for some kind of choice but to sort this out and move this story from the SDP that keeps repeating itself. Let's not talk about pre-election time. It's always some pre-election time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34889	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34890	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoy, why is it important to open the archives? Because the case of the murder of Djurkovic and in the case of the trial is the fact that lawyers were difficult to get to the archives, they were difficult to obtain evidence, and so was the case of many others who were killed, and they only intended to have what they achieved in the 1990s, which is Croatian freedom. This is the case of Bruno Busic, the Ševo family, after many were killed after the 1990s, many of them have since become major communist directors today and have their own empires and certainly because of the victims. And the victim doesn't get old. None of us, and I see with all the colleagues who before me had a replica, for consensus, simply because of the truth, and because of those victims, no one should have anything against it. No matter what sacrifice that sacrifice is made for, it is given for this freedom that we sit here today, it is necessary to open the archives and give people the opportunity to find out the truth because of these people they don't even know where their bones are, because of numerous caves, because of many of those who are missing, we have to do this without returning to any ideological world view or other division. We need to do this for the truth, because of the victim, because of families who don't know about their loved ones in one totalitarian regime, a communist regime that didn't recognise any other opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34891	The reply to the replica is the representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34892	Comrade Bull, I couldn't agree more. I haven't been able to answer that. I think it's important when we talk about the SDP handing over all the archives. So no document can be obtained without the consent of the SDP secretary and that is the problem addressed by this law. When it comes to this and that's what you're asking for all archives to be available, or all archives, it's that we can't prescribe what functions these are in the former regime for which we're going to open everything. Because it may have been a more important role and perhaps a more important part of that system was an editor in some newspapers than someone in some position in local self-government. We know the media were part of that system, too. Just as they are today on a certain level just as they are on certain different principles today, so again today Hanžekovic's Free Attacks you as a Croatian defender just because we here oppose what Mr. Hanžekovic is doing and what we want to change the Law on HRT. We also had a different principle, then the media was in the service of the regime and now they're in service or government or interest groups. It's a similar situation today. And that is why this bill will also expose those media and journalists who have worked in the service of this communist regime.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34893	Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34894	Thank you very much. A fellow Grmoy, says a wise proverb, next, “The land of heaven swore to know every secret! ” And indeed in the Republic of Croatia many secrets are known, but the bases that follow these secrets are often not available or come from such famous, unnamed sources. What makes it so, we all know. The state institutions and state archives of various institutions have created many private archives precisely from people who knew how to do these things. They used to take it, and they knew they'd need a lot of things today. And I think today it's hard to find anyone here in the assembly who's against opening state archives and all the institutions. But you mentioned the cost of a trial in Munich. You witnessed that one party of the SDP, a true successor of the Croatian Communist alliance, made a lot of efforts, legal tricks, the face of the state and the reputation of certain judicial institutions to prevent the extradition of the two sought by the German court. They didn't make it and what do we have today? Are you sure, Mr. Grumoja, that the SDP that is now all of a sudden agreeing with this bill, which is still in the power of their secretary-general to give you authority to enter the archives of the Croatian Communist Union, will allow you to do so within 6 months and make everything available. It's kind of weird to me. Either they know that this law has certain problems and shortcomings that the government warns of, so it will collapse in another way or they have enlightened themselves by leaving Zoran Milanovic. I think this is the first one. And your claim that SDP is not a follower, the legal follower of the communist alliance does not stand. Because you can't convince me that Mr. Nenad Stazic as a member of the SDP is not legal Follower of Milutin Baltic [[The President's incursion: time. Time's up.]] Former member of the Croatian Communist Alliance. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] It's just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34895	Representative Boric, time is up. Thank you. I would ask representative Mrsic not to use the intruders but to use the institutes that you have at your disposal. The reply to the replica of the representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34896	My dear colleague, I'd love to, and I've said that on several occasions that we're not going like this, meaning calling out colleagues and saying which party protects which regime. The fact is, this law hasn't been passed in 25 years. And all those who were part of this Parliament, all those who did not make such a proposal and may have had enough hands, here as we now have that the instructions of this one proposal are co-responsible to me that this question, which has not been resolved. I believe what I hear from all of you today, you asked me if I believed the SDP would vote on Wednesday. And now I trust you all. I expect you all to vote because you all said you support, I expect you all to refer this law to another reading on Wednesday. I'm the only one who can take your word for it. Both you and your colleagues from the SDP, your colleagues from the Living Wall and your colleagues from HSS. I'm sure that I, my colleagues from MOST, will vote on Wednesday and I expect this bill to be passed with some changes if it's a constructive proposal and I think it's very good quality. A colleague from your club Zlatko Hasanbegovic also said the bill is extremely high-quality. And I expect us all to support this and to pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34897	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Ivica Poljičak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34898	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The government was very careful to consider this proposed amendment and addition of the Law on Archive Paper, aware of the sensitivity of the topic and by putting it in a very clear context of facing the past of the totalitarian regimes, which the Prime Minister himself spoke of on 27 October last year at the 1st meeting of the Government, saying that one of the tasks of this meeting with the past was the opening of the archives from that period. It is precisely by handling this, that the Government has made a commitment to develop a new law on archival material and archives. What were the reasons? The applicable law on archival material, which was passed in 1997, has become obsolete in its basic settings. Since then, important changes have occurred, significant for the Republic of Croatia from the fact that the EU has joined the EU to modernisation, which involves an electronic age which has a significant impact on the creation and collection of future archive material. In this regard, and considering this context of the past or archive material of the former totalitarian regime, it was clear that it was necessary to adopt a new, entirely new law governing archival activity. Therefore, on this trail the competent ministry and in this case, the Ministry of Culture immediately joined the creation of a new law at the beginning of the year. In the meantime, this proposal also appeared to amend and supplement the existing law and not to enter in detail now because the government's opinion is available to all of you not to go in detail now to remain much more space and for the debate itself, so that everyone's voice can be heard about this sensitive subject that we are discussing today. I can say that as far as the goal is concerned, the fundamental objective of this amendment is that it has a very high agreement. I'm talking about the availability of archival material from that last period with a new law that's just being created and is in the final stage of production at the Ministry of Culture. What the government warns, it points to the perceived inadequacies, points to part of the uncertainty seen in this bill and also points to the need to comply with Croatian legislation and with the EU regulation of 679 that takes effect next year. What probably the public is extremely interested in and after the debate is seen most in this new law that is being prepared, the whole law takes particular account of the principle of availability and openness of the archives, in which we are managed by the German model. The German model makes a clear distinction between the stalker and the victim. All that concerns the persecutor, all that relates to lighting the truth about how the repressive apparatus worked, how the intelligence system worked is available to the public. However, the data relating to the victim and not having touch points on the very nature of the regime, therefore do not bring the truth, contributes to the truth about the part relating to the repressive apparatus being simplified when it comes to the victim and its private data, in that sense, the German model takes into account the right to ask the victim prior consent in this regard. I think it's one of the crucial, crucial, and in that sense it's clear that the government wants the archives to open, that the archive material becomes available in that sense, but that the victim is also taken care of, that the victim would not once again become a victim. I would just like to point out that the government here warns, practically making an observation to the applicant that you should make a PFU form, so that's an assessment of the financial efficiency which is normally an obligation when any law is passed. Because anyone who's had any contact with the archive store or with the archive material knows how unsustainable and practically technically inconclusive, within six months, all of the body's archival material is. So, it's not just what was party material, it can't be settled anywhere within 6 months first, and I'm not talking about the difficulty of not having enough space, and it needs to be provided in that sense with financial resources. Finally, I would say that, in view of all of the above, the Government of the Republic considers that the draft law is necessary for a second reading, of course, respecting all the proposals and remarks to be heard in this assembly. And since the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing a new Law on Archive and Archives on the same problem will be fully resolved, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will refer a new law to the Croatian Parliament before the summer break. What I can responsibly claim to you is that the full text of the law will be in public debate in two weeks tops. Here is another small technical fence for three weeks and will be available to the general Croatian public. All experts as well as any interested citizen will then be able to show themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34899	Thank you very much. We've got plenty of replicas. We'll start with the first, and that's the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34900	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. So we've got some kind of a mix of pears and apples here. So we're talking about the Most Law, and now you're telling us about some whole other law that doesn't exist yet, but it's going to be written. Suddenly there was a very urgent need. What's most important of all is the law that you're going to write is not the same law that the MOST wrote, it's one other law. And since we have many promises of the day in this House and especially before the elections, we have the right to doubt that this law will indeed be written specifically within this time limit that you have now said. So if he comes, we'll discuss him. Right now, we have this law here, and it's my suggestion that we work on it. He, the addition and acceptance of this law, is what we can safely count on, with which scientists, historians will be able to calculate for sure. And these beautiful promises of a law that will come, for they have not yet begun to write it, nor is it known who will write it. I think they're kind of going in the direction I was talking about, which is that a couple of parties are actually fighting for credit for who's going to make it possible to get into the archives, the Yugoslav archives. So, although perhaps those same ones who had that intensity missed the opportunity they had for the last 27 years to do so. I therefore call on MPs to discuss the proposal for the MOST law, and on this law which is reportedly to be written, to discuss when it appears in the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34901	The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34902	Your Honor, Mr. Bunjac. I think it's a clear distinction that today we are discussing a partial solution to the existing law on archival material and archives, and that the government is preparing a new law that is complete and refers to the overall archival activity. This is important for us to know what to say here is looking at and the esteemed Mr. Grumo, again we are talking about the agreement of the fundamental goal that is to be achieved, which is to make the data available and that the archives are open. Here I can show you if someone is two, here is the working material practically new law which is in the last final work reading, let's call it so and the expert commission will review it again and according to its procedure will be referred to the public debate and I am convinced that it will be here at the assembly benches until the summer break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34903	Thank you very much. But the fact is what my colleague Bunjac said, we are now discussing this law. Therefore, there is no need to call for this law to be discussed, it is a item of the agenda and we are discussing it. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34904	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I'm interested in some, when it comes to archives, I'm interested in some key things like this. Do you have a database of how many state archives have been destroyed from the Croatian state? It seems to me that no one has any more biography, no one has been in the alliance of communists, no one has worked for UDBA, does it have that information? And what's being prepared is a law on libricid is the burning of land books, files, etc. It's a felony. The second thing is, is there ever talk to colleagues in Serbia's MUP down there where there's still an entire archive down there that needs to be returned to the Croatian state, not only that archive, but the archives from the former NDH stand it down. And you have a deal... between states, we're paying $6.5 billion in former South debt, no one's looking for... archives from Belgrade. One more thing, do you have a database to enforce the law as a law, you've got hundreds of laws, EU law, not just... democracy, class genocide, what about economic crime? Today thousands of people live in taken-off apartments, protected tenants, and we have a minister as a parade horse saying it'll last another five years. They're waiting for those people to die and none of it. What about millions of acres of land? You have a database of how many thousands of companies were taken from Croats, how many companies, farms, etc.? Only the German minority was taken away from the nonstop, worth $11 billion worth of land, which today is worth it,...and I repeat again who will come to your country where 5% of the land is not arranged?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34905	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in her opinion about this law, the government said it was flawed and it's inconclusive, and now we see that in two weeks, we're going to get a new law, and you're hoping that people who wrote the bill overnight paid overtime and what for the night's work that goes according to the collective contract because this is really fast. As far as I know, there was a speech a month ago that it would be in the last quarter or third quarter of this year. And on the other hand, I think you made a mistake when you made Mr. Grumo work on a PFU form because, according to the decision to form a standard methodology for assessing the fiscal impact of the PFU form for the sake of the Government, it's not for the Parliament and I think that colleagues from MOST will hardly make the PFU form if they don't have enough data, so the PFU form can't now order them to write the PFU form. On the other hand, we hear a respected representative, Hasanbegovic, who says he is from HDZ, who says the government has not rejected the proposal but has pointed out the shortcomings they can and do not have to be founded. Who's fucking with who? It's really crazy, confused and normal. So the government says it's not good, Mr Hasanbegovic, who was a minister, says the same thing might not have been, according to the last statement he said he said agreed to vote, that the MOST ministers voted for a negative report on this law because they wanted it on the agenda today. Pe here I ask, the government is made of MOST and HDZ, the Most is the proposer of this law, and the government rejects the proposal of the Most. So tell me, who can do this more, whose law is it, who's going to do it? And I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to tell us clearly who's going to write, who's going to write the law, whether MOST's final proposal or eventually the government's going to write it? And don't forget that the President of the Parliament can put your bill back in place and never put it in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34907	Thank you. Here's a response from the esteemed secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34908	Your Honor, Mr. Mrsic, I would like to correct the incorrectly stated allegations that the government has rejected this proposal and has given an contrary opinion which is not true. So the government didn't do it, the government only made comments that it considers and relates to the law that it is not enough in some parts, that it is unsecured. And this part relating to the PFU form, therefore, that the applicant must present it as such, at least in some assessment, because in this case, the Government is not the Proposer. And the second thing that you've been mentioning is that you're doing overtime, you're not doing anything overtime because exactly the government's plan of normative activities is the expected time to vote in the Parliament, it's the 3rd quarter, and now we're in those deadlines. In other words, if it is the first reading before the summer party then it is logical to expect in the 3rd quarter that in this assembly it is decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34909	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34910	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to start by looking back at what my colleague Mrsic said before me because I still can't read anything from the Secretary of State's reply and especially not the answers that Mrssic has set. So this document we received does not say that the Government is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to pass this law but not to oppose it. Then you say it's the law, the government does it, or the Ministry of Culture does it, does it MOST, does it all. How many laws are we going to have in the archives at the end? I would like first of all to welcome the comprehensive law on archives, not this partial one. But in the end, I must also say that we are a poor country when our past is a burning problem. The past is what it is, she won't change. I wish that was our biggest problem. That we don't have a problem moving young people, that our problem isn't unemployment, that our problem isn't economic development. If this were the biggest problem, I'd be a very lucky man. I've already said hallelujah in this assembly once, and I'll say now, hallelujah, if we finally pass this law and we'll support it. Finally, some things will clear up. And I assure you that there will certainly be no people on this side of the assembly who will find themselves compromising the data in that archival structure. You won't find them on this side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34911	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34912	Dear Secretary of State, you're saying the government believes this bill is unarranged, partial, superficial. As far as I know, the government is making HDZ and the Most. This means that the MOST in the government believes that the Most in the Assembly is unspeakable, partial and superficial. And the Most in Parliament doesn't trust the Most in the government to make a better law than the Most in the Parliament is now proposing. It's a rather bizarre, strange, difficult thing for citizens to understand. MOST in the Parliament is in a hurry compared to the Most in the government, they would like to know as much as possible and as early as possible as possible what has been done by the repressive communist system. Right? So to find out how repressive the communist system opened, is it true that schooling was available to everyone and free of charge? How exactly did the hospital's repressive communist system open up? Is it true that health care was available to everyone and free of charge? How many jobs has the repressive communist system opened? How many factories he's opened. Is it true that at the time of the repressive communist system, the average pension was 70% of the average salary? And finally to find out all these truths as soon as possible. And in this respect, I fully support the Most in the Parliament compared to the Most in the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34913	Thank you very much. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34914	Your Honor, Mr. Stazic, I have listened very carefully to you, so I must say what I have said so far that there are no disagreements in the government either, as far as that goes. But it is not clear to me that, just before I heard from the Committee on Legislatives that my colleagues from the SDP support the MOST proposal, the Legislative Office was restrained and now here from this debate I have failed to understand what you support and what you do not support. Otherwise, it is normal and common to be in the Croatian Parliament, so it is your job, of course, to change the laws. It is one thing when the law that is in force is complemented in some part and changed and the other is when a whole new law is passed. I think it's clear in that sense why the whole new law text is being done, the old one's out of date, we want to make it modern, and we want to shed light on this piece of archive material from the period of totalitarian regimes in '41, '90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34915	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34916	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, you said in your statement that the specificity of the German model is that it requires that the victim be asked about the processing that concerns her herself. I think it's a good approach and that's what must contain the Croatian law if we really want to give full dignity and piety to the victims and their families. Every study of the archival building for scientific purposes, I think the current legislation is enough. If it needs to be done, change it for more efficient use and build it anyway. And the SDP finally did it, colleagues warned of it in our debate so far. But sometimes I get the feeling that some of our colleagues want to put SDP on the defendant's bench and tie it to possible human rights violations made by the state authorities of the former state. Mr. Grumoja made it clear that this is not the law's intensity and that this thing cannot be joined but separated. What I want to say further is that we are not talking about ideologies here, we are talking about instruments used by certain state bodies to violate human rights. Because all the ideologies that are known in the world can be linked to some human rights violations. Even today, you have Guantanamo prison in Cuba, which many in the world think is below the level permitted by international conventions and standards for human rights violations. Likewise, in our long Christian history, there were many instances when human rights were violated in Christian state regimes. But what is particularly important to me, I mean, in my name and I believe in the name of the party that any violations of human rights committed in these areas we strongly condemn and we will never stand behind them. But please, when you are preparing a law that you will prepare to take care of and that someone does not think about equating fascism and anti-fascism, ZAVNOH, the National Republic of Croatia, the Socialist Republic of Croatia, which is in the foundations of the statehood of today's Republic of Croatia and which is guaranteed or confirmed by the Constitution, so that someone does not accidentally attempt to prepare changes to the Constitution and to throw anti-fascism out of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34917	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34918	Dear Representative, Mr. Klisovic here is very valuable to point out that when the law is finished and with this proposal that is here, he has no ideological approach as such and you are right there. Therefore, you will at no time see terms such as fascism, antifascism, communism, Bolshevism, Nazism etc. It is about making the archive material available, and historians are the ones who will, based on evidence, do well-founded scientific interpretations and write about it and do their scientific papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34919	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34920	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Policach, in your presentation, you're on your way, in fact one topic that I consider to be the same starting point may be wrong. You have applied to German legislation and to the defense of the victim and her dignity. But if we go back, actually the public's interest, especially in the eastern part of the former DDR, was to determine who the victim was. Because once the victim was not just someone who was incarcerated, but who in his life had a whole series of problems that he may have considered to be conditions. And then it's crucial, in fact, to determine that it wasn't because of his incompetence, because of some unfortunate circumstances, but rather that it was one pression of a system he wanted to dehumanize, which he wants to exclude from a society where he was never acceptable to any more quality schooling, for a better job. And I think we should go from being interested in people and being victims of a repressive apparatus that was present during the communist government in this society. And in the end, we here represent that even in the processes where the culprits of the Homeland War are discovered, to find all the victims, to identify themselves, that their families know they're victims. And in the end, we could end up here in a situation where we won't reveal the victims without just finding the executioners. And no one knows how he was blackmailed. We've had a discussion recently, so if I may say it's not an association at all, but if anyone remembers who they were who wanted the Bear dog removed, they'd stop barking. I don't know those names, but we all know about the Bear dog. So he's the one who was sort of the society's attention to him. Therefore, it should still start from the victims, not from the executioners themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34921	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34922	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you do not need to be surprised at the different approach of the SDP when it comes to this law. Namely, they publicly advocate this law, and in fact to disrupt the fight between the Most and HDZ so as not to pass this law. But there is enough prudence in both HDZ and MOST to not stick to this glue, because both of us aim to achieve this fundamental goal under this law, which is to publish, make available all archives of the former state especially those archives concerning the former Union of Communists of Croatia, or the Communist Party of Croatia. What I've come up for is part of your presentation which makes you a fundamental difference between that German approach and the Czech approach to which MOST is called. So me here right now, that's what I'm asking you to explain to me what that difference is in that non-selective approach between the stalker and the victim. Namely, what we in the Croatian Democratic Community club think and support in this regard is that personal data on victims who do not have any need to be exposed to the public because the persecutor of each victim for his own reasons did not then or need to be published through the provision of access to all data from the state archives. And is this, then, the fundamental, essential difference between this German and Czech model in a way that we, in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, really appreciate that the victim should not again be made a victim if we publish about it no personal data that really has nothing to do with the work for which the former system, the repressive apparatus incriminates him. That, in my opinion, is the only fundamental difference in the amendments to the law. And the other thing is that we stand up for a complete amendment to the law itself. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34923	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34924	Dear Representative, Mr. Bačić, here I will also refer to what the honourable representative Mr. Panenić said because this is perhaps the most sensitive moment and these changes offered here and writing a whole law relating to the very availability. Of course, everything that applies to a stalker in the function of lighting, system functioning, repressive apparatus, intelligence systems, political officials who have made decisions that have had a bad impact on the individuals we treat here as victims. This information should be made fully available to the public. Now that we're talking about the victim, it's impossible not to present a part of the data relating to the victims when we're talking about a concrete act where there's been an abuse of the intelligence system, and in that sense, it's interrelated data. But when you take a file into your hands, it's very important, because maybe we're talking part of it. If we had a file in our hands, then we can only see what kind of data is in there. And in that sense, it's not okay, and we have to do everything to protect the victim's position when we protect data that are exclusively private and contribute nothing to the lighting of the totalitarian core of the character of the previous regime. Here's the distinction we think is extremely important. Otherwise, the Czech model was created right after the Barcelona Revolution where the victims were just the ones who were the key creators of this law, but we are now almost 30 years after that and some mechanisms simply cannot go back and we hold that under these circumstances that the German model is to be an excellent solution that enables the lighting of truth and protects the victim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34925	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34926	I have listened very carefully to your discussion and if we rule out populistism from this topic, which these days revolves around public space on this subject, we can speak in two ways, heart, and as you have said by profession. If we speak with our hearts, we can remember that the polluted land does not plant seeds that will produce some fruit that will serve as food, and also in the polluted land, a healthy state is not created. And the fact is, we're all aware that this country of ours is polluted by the corruption of communism. And that's why I support it, and I'm surprised why my SDP colleagues haven't long since asked to move away from them that the signing record so that something can be read, that something can be checked. If I speak with my heart, I simply want to know why my father's brother was killed in the 24th year after World War II. I just know and understand that the one whose father was a partisan that had to have an answer, which is why his partisan who was an anti-fascist was killed somewhere on a naked island or locked up by some kind of casamat. So that's something that needs to be opened and that's how I'm talking right now, I'm talking with my heart. And as I say, thousands and thousands of Croatian citizens speak, saying thousands of those who are descendants or relatives of those who have been led, gunned down, killed, by the Crossway of Bleiburg throughout Yugoslavia. We were recently fixing the road at my place in my town, the manager buried it, we found 12 bodies inside. Trapped, shot, killed in the road I've driven a thousand times. And it must be opened, it must be seen, it must be known. This when we talk with our hearts, it's like that. But here you are, my colleague Grumo and all those who are professional, Kovac we bring a law that will allow us to look at it with... to end this eternal once more, and the insane conflict between some Ustasha and partisans who have long been buried.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34927	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34928	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary. You're saying the law has to protect the victim's data so they don't repeat themselves. However, the fact is that in the processes conducted in the Djurekovic case, lawyers and other processes that led to the victims of the communist regime of that time of totalitarian, lawyers could not obtain documentation i.e. archives from that time or would come along private lines so they would come to Ljubljana, Belgrade or I don't know where to get the data, so we don't protect the victim or family. Until now, it has been protected essentially by crime, which is the case in lex Perkovic very visible when the entire Croatian political elite or most of them were raised up so that the case of Perkovic was not handed over to Germany, and it also says that our judiciary, and the archival structure is also saying that we are not protecting the victim but that so far protected crime from that time. With this law and your opinion, I hope the parliamentary majority, and we see that both Mr Dodig and all the springers who were from that time and all the people who had passed through fate to reach a free Croatia, who were imprisoned and tortured to simply deserve the truth. This is about the truth, and so far it's protected to this proposal, not the victim, but the criminal. It's visible, it's easily verifiable, and you can see it with the lawyers' teams. And with this opening, we're basically closing the past, and we're all going to the future together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34929	Thank you. The Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34930	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. Here's to back up with some indicators that I think are important for this moment in the debate, which refers to the modern moment of access to the material that the SDP handed over in two rounds in 1995 and 2004. One part of this material was classified as some form of secrecy and precisely because of this fact that I learned specifically by not talking about this case like you are now a lawyer, but I talked to historians who work in archives to make it available to them in scientific interest, that they could do scientific research, they should have sought a co-signature of practically the creator of the material in this case by the Secretary General of the SDP. And what was going on? It has happened in several such cases, I suppose this is also the one you are talking about now, that the archive material found in the Croatian State Archives was unfortunately not available because it was classified, and the refusal came signed by the Secretary General of the SDP. In this way and what MOST offers with its proposal, but what is offered and with the whole proposal, once the legislative provision would make the declassification possible, and this material would become available to all under equal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34931	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34932	Dear Secretary of State, I appreciate that our initiative has also been launched by the Ministry of Culture, so it finally begins with the preparation of the final bill but for many years now, in the Ministry of Culture, we are talking about the preparation of this whole law that would completely resolve the archivist profession. And I think the time has come for us to pass this law that deals with a narrow area and then give you time to prepare, not to rush now because of all this, to prepare a comprehensive law and then to, all together to solve the entire archivist profession to bring it into this Croatian Assembly. Government remarks, a colleague from the SDP was invited, as Mr Hasanbegovic said, many remarks by the government are practically not standing, e.g. We as a Club of Representatives are not the bonds of the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations at all, so we had no obligation at all to do what the Government and you are talking about. And when we talk about a violation of the guarantee of respect for personal, family life, dignity, reputation and honor as it stands in the government's opinion, it means it's clearly forgotten about all the injuries, meaning personal, family life, dignity, reputation, victims of the communist regime. So it hasn't been planned at all in these 25 years, meaning this country, no one in the Republic has ever been processed, so those who led to a series of murders both in the country and abroad. And so what you're saying, or what the government said, is basically some kind of story, and that principle story won't lead to the disclosure of the truth about the character of this regime. This legislative proposal, I responsibly claim is extremely high-quality, I have seen that it has the support of all practical club representatives, we will bring it to this House if they stick to words and what they are saying and then we will give time to the Ministry of Culture to prepare a comprehensive law that will solve the issue... in the [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34933	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34934	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoya, in the Ministry of Culture there is no rush, we are working in line with the government's plan of normative activities. The job of making a new law started before you started with your incentive. As long as the work materials are here we can, I invite you to come to the Ministry of Culture, here on Monday, so we can go through all the material together, see if that's it. And in that sense, we're on the same kind of business. What happened to previous ministers at the Ministry of Culture for a long time, I would not talk about it now, but I can say that in this sense we started not only in accordance with the envisaged activities but we practically made almost to the very final phase of the law. It takes a little more cleaning, a nice grinding, and he'll be in a public hearing in two, no more than three weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34935	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Sasa Djujic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34936	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure were injured by the Secretary of State, in Article 238, but through several of its replicas. Namely, he is talking here about a topic that is not at all on the agenda, which is about some kind of imaginary law that the Ministry of Culture has made that no one has seen and only he discusses and talks about what is in it and the topic is the law that the colleagues in MOST have proposed. And at no point did he say what was wrong with their law but was called not by something they had done and no one had seen alive. It's like eating, everybody's talking about it. We just don't know what's out there. And I would ask, since we are only at the beginning of this debate that a colleague, the secretary of state, no longer directs us into this non-existent law than to talk about the law of colleagues from MOST and to say what is wrong with it or what is wrong with it and not to refer to something that is not at all a topic of debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34937	My colleague Djujic, first of all, you know that in our discussions, all of you, including you and everyone, are leaving from the top of the topic, and every time I react, I'm afraid that everyone would get notices every time. That's one thing. I, of course, can't give a secretary of state or a warning, but I can give members of this House. But what you're saying isn't exactly simple because you have it in front of you, you may not have read it, but you have the opinion of the government where the whole law is just mentioned. It's the whole law that's being mentioned right now. So it's inside the subject. We are discussing this proposal and we will now discuss this proposal but mentioning, mentioning... Please don't throw it away. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But the mention of something that is in the government's opinion is not deviating at all from the subject. And of course we're discussing this proposal. That's what I'm saying now for the third time for those who don't listen or don't want to hear it. Here's my colleague, Djujic. What's he hurt in now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34938	Now, the Rules of Procedure of Article 239, which says that the MP will be given a warning if he acts contrary to Article 238, and you are now the chairman of the delegation, and it is not exactly what you are saying. So the secretary of state is discussing something that's not the subject of the agenda. How I'm going to discuss the government's law no matter what it says when I haven't seen it. This MOST I've seen and he's good but this one I don't know what's out there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34939	You can't co-worker, you abuse an institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34940	And you often warn us from opposition, but you do not warn others.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34941	.../Intruder Reiner: I warn. If you were here more often then you'd see me warning without any other criteria than those that violate the Rules of Procedure. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure now because you're polymizing with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34942	And you're always polymizing with me...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34943	.../Intruder Reiner: Abuse the institution./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34944	...from the chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34945	.../Intruder Reiner: You can't paralyze a colleague with me. Read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34946	And you can come with me, but it's not right, it's not moral.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34947	.../Intruder Reiner: You abuse./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34948	I'm here a lot. To abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34949	.../Intruder Reiner: You abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure be aware of that./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34950	Well, I'm abuser because I have no other way of participating in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34951	.../Intruder Reiner: I now give you a warning about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34952	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34953	.../Intruder Reiner:
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34954	Here's at least now you're finally sticking to Article 239. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34955	Please. My colleague Bulj, you've done the same damage to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34956	The Honorable Chairman, you are in violation of Article 238 because you are obliged to warn someone if this is not about the topic of debate. Here is the proposal known, the proposal is the club MOST and everything else is off topic and I would ask you to stick to that proposal. And I think the MPs who gave you that review here, i.e. for the violation of the Rules of Procedure that they were right because the whole time you were avoiding talking about the subject, and we know that in previous discussions, you were even forced to bring people out of the assembly when you interrupted them for speaking on the subject. Here I am asking you to respect Article 238 for all MPs equally from left, right or center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34957	I'm a colleague. I don't know. I have to tell you again what I said to my colleague, Giujic. I have made it clear three times that we are discussing this bill, that we are discussing this bill. Of course, people will leave the topic that is strictly held in a certain range, and you know how often you walk away from the topic. And if every time I warned you about it, you wouldn't be here at all, you wouldn't be sitting here. Yeah? So let's get back to work on this bill. So on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Tomislav Žagar appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34958	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, on behalf of the promoter, he spoke of what the motives of this law were and explained certain provisions of this law. I will use my debate on behalf of the club MOST independent lists to refer to some of the remarks made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the draft law. First of all, we are pleased to have recognized the justified purpose of passing this law. No matter how small part of the archive activity is listed, this part of the activity is extremely important for the modern history of the Republic of Croatia. We agree that the problem of archives and archive activities should be resolved systematically and completely, but we believe that this requires a long process that includes not only the adoption of a new law but also significant material resources that are not provided and is not certain when they will be able to be secured. In addition, although the Government of the Republic of Croatia has classified the adoption of a new and whole law and announced its adoption in the third quarter of this year, we hold that, for objective and subjective reasons, it is significantly delayed. In fact, on the pages of the Ministry of Culture as a parent ministry, it is evident that the expert commission has yet to be established and that so far it has held only one in essence preparatory session since 20 February 2017. From the above, the plan to refer the law to the parliamentary procedure before the summer break shows more of a good intention than a real state of affairs. In addition, we believe that the Government should not rush to propose such an important law but that all aspects of relevant, legal and professional matter should be well considered and a law should be passed that will infallibly solve all problems in the Croatian archivist. From the above, we are therefore of the view that the proposed law should be adopted now and then joined by a comprehensive reform in this area. By reading the opinion of the Government in the section mentioning Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, it should be pointed out that that proposal does not violate that Regulation. In particular, it is a fundamental principle of the Regulation that the continuation of the processing of personal data for the purposes of archiving in the public interest, for scientific or historical research or for statistical purposes, should be considered as harmonised legal processing. It is also an important rule of the Regulation that I quote: ‘To process personal data exclusively for journalistic purposes or for the purposes of academic, artistic or literary expression, derogations or exemptions from certain provisions of this Regulation should apply. Where necessary, in order to comply with the right to the protection of personal data with the right to freedom of expression and information as set out in Article 11. The Charter should in particular apply to the processing of personal data in the audio-visual field, as well as to the press and media archives. Member States should therefore adopt legislative measures to provide for exemptions and derogations necessary to comply with these fundamental rights. Since the independence of the Republic of Croatia and the collapse of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, it has been clear for 27 years that there is no legal, moral or any other obligation of the Republic of Croatia to protect the data of a failed state. In this regard, it should also be stressed that there is no doubt of public interest as it seeks a regulation and public interest in archive material from the former Yugoslavia. This, for obvious reasons and the passage of time, makes it clear that the public interest in the purposes of scientific or historical research and freedom of expression and information is weighed above the rules on the protection of personal data in law with the principles laid down in the Regulation. It should be said here that opening the archives would also prove that in the media and the publicists very often publish certain documents from that period and that this is not always done with a legitimate purpose. We are witnessing a whole series of manipulations with such documents, including rough counterfeits, of the otherwise unreachable public, which are used for the differentiation of individuals or historical facts precisely because of their general inaccessibility, which violates fundamental human rights in the most harsh way, while at the same time the victim of the difamation is in no way available to this same material. To stress that this is not about individual cases, it is possible to find in the press archives all the diphming campaigns that are being conducted for various reasons. When the government speaks of a potential violation of the guarantee of respect for personal and family life, dignity, reputation, honor, and honor are clearly forgotten for all violations of the guarantees of respect for personal and family life, dignity, reputation, and honor of victims of the communist regime from 1945 to 1990, as well as violations of the right to life committed in that regime. Unfortunately, it must be said that even on the plan to protect respect for personal and family life, dignity, reputation and honor of victims of the communist regime, almost nothing has been done but that the Republic of Croatia has never been prosecuted by those who have led to a series of murders both in the country and abroad. So much for the principle of proportionality. It should also point out that most of the event players from that period died and that the protection of personal data does not apply to such individuals. In doing so, it should be said that the Republic of Croatia is one of the few countries that has not only not implemented the lustration, but has not in one dignified way honored all those who have given their lives or health to most of these people in public to a free and independent Croatian state outside the Homeland War. Finally, it is necessary to be open and to say that the protection of personal data is not a sacred and untouchable rule but only one of the principles which is in accordance with the principle of proportionality should be put in relation to the public's right to know, but also with the right of the Croatian people to its own history and culture. All of this is possible only in one way, to make all the material available from that period publicly, not only for the sake of the victims but also for Croatian history and the future. Therefore, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, I call on MPs to support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34959	Thank you very much. We have a series of replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34960	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Sagar, you've been talking about the intensity of this law and I think we've entered too wide about intensity and that the only legal intensity of this law is humanity and deep humanism. So this is a fundamental human right, and it's a right to the truth. To testify that this topic is deeply humanistic and human, I will give you an example and that the family has the right to say behind its progeny that it has the right to a good vote, I will tell you about the fate of Ilija Jakovljevic, a Croatian Catholic intellectual who, when NDH came, immediately raised his voice against this creation and ended up in a camp on the Sava. He was a Catholic intellectual, HSS, and in the book "Conclogor at Sava" describes the torture committed by prison guards and somehow managed to survive the camp. However, when the communist Yugoslavia came on stage, even though it was against NDH, it was closed because it disagreed with his views on the independence of the Croatian state and ended up in the same camp. And the same prison guards used the same form as Ustasha and Communist and ended up supposed to hang themselves, even though fate is unknown. I just want such cases to be known, the fate of such people who have been against both regimes and that it's a deep human matter that we need to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34961	Thank you. The Honorable representative, Sagar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34962	Dear colleague of Sladolev's. So I agree with you. It is a humanistic approach and simply the truth must be available and only by truth can we overcome those divisions that are now ruled by Croatian society. If we are talking about the World War II period and everything that happened after that, we must be aware that there was no Internet at the time, there was no media, so a lot of things were done and there were no such data available to the public. And that's why all those years in that regime have been happening the things that here if we're willing today can be available just once to close that chapter and to clear up with that time. In that sense, I agree with you that this is a humanistic approach to this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34963	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34964	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Sagar. I'm saying this first of all as an expert, historian someone who's in constant contact with archives, archival construction. I would still be happier to discuss today a comprehensive solution that the profession has also spoken of. In fact, we are often under pressure from both the public and the professional public to make partial solutions, to constantly change laws, to pass hasty laws. I wish she'd said more about this law than politics. Because as you yourself said this political question whether it's more or not after more than 25 years, I don't think it is and I think it's more of a question of profession. As for the urgency of taking it out of your debates, I would conclude that this is now a crucial time to pass because I don't know, if we've waited until now, if we wait another day, the state will fail. I wouldn't agree with that, and that's exactly why I don't think the urgency here is so crucial. Perhaps urgency is crucial because it is your only concrete reform so far, but about that, it is now something else in meeting some choices etc. So don't get me wrong, I don't have anything against this bill, but I will support it, but I think it's much better to lead in the future by offering systematic and comprehensive solutions rather than partial ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34965	Thank you for the response of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34966	So I fully agree with you, of course, that it is always best to bring a systematic overall solution and, in this sense, so much so as my colleague Grumoja spoke in the opening presentation, if this will be an incentive or motive to the Ministry of Culture that as soon as possible, this law makes sense. In that sense, I say here and I am glad that you will support this legislative proposal so that as soon as possible this matter is resolved because taught by previous experience it has always been said it will be, will be, in the end it has not happened. So let this and today's debate be an incentive to get rid of it as soon as possible. And of course, with you, I completely agree, first of all, with the waist.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34967	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sagar, in most of your presentations, I agree, and I would almost all sign what you said, except that somehow your statement rang that the government should slowly pass this law, take time, total, that's one complex problem. It should almost pass the mandate for the government to pass the law. And the government is proposing a law... Therefore, it does not go to the final draft of the law but goes with the first-reading bill which will go the same way as the one that has gone far less prepared than the one that the Government will prepare for another month and a half. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The more on behalf of the MOST club yesterday, for example, a colleague, Kristic, invited the government to consider the season of summer and we have already started the tourist season on the possible introduction of the euro into the payment system in the Republic of Croatia. You can imagine how important such an important, important problem would have been left to the government to solve it in a few days to come by that law. The more you supported this government in the 7th meeting of Zoran Milanovic, which brought 90% of the laws into emergency procedures. So that we can be correct when we evaluate work on any law and leave the possibility to even the government that the government is capable and willing to do much before we MPs have a certain law because there are more ministries, there are a number of people who include it in the proposal, and then they wouldn't limit the government when it's going to make the law. I believe that the government has already taken these activities so that this law can come very quickly to the benches. And as it is in its opinion, it says it will be before the summer break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34969	The answer to the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34970	Thank you, colleague Bačić, therefore, and in the preparation of this legislative proposal has been spent about 5 months, I think, working to prepare this legislative proposal. I believe that the government can really quickly, when we say here that the government needs to leave itself time, it doesn't mean now that it has to be one mandate but certainly on the basis of these remarks that the government has made, if the government needs time let it take its time but as soon as possible that the whole proposal comes to our benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34971	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34972	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sagar, I fully agree with the opening of the archives and this law that should be passed that our people simply experience it, to see who did what in this country, what was done. A colleague of Sladolev just told us about this one case. I know cases from the municipality where I live, in the Brcko municipality, 1188 people were killed after the war and Brcko hasn't been found yet, about 500 are still being investigated. So these crimes that were committed after the war we don't want any revenge anywhere and towards anyone but we want one truth for this Croatian people to once know who, what and how it was done in the former system. The mass of people is damaged, whether by murder, whether by imprisonment, whether by persecution. Well, I guess it's matured time after 70, 80 years for the people to once learn the truth about what's been going on in the communist repressive system, and to sort it out once and for this people to start a simple, beautiful life without that burden that we can't wait to get rid of once.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34973	Thank you. Is the answer to the esteemed representative, Sagar? Nothing? Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34974	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say, first of all, that as far as SDP's secretary's consent to the opening of parts of the archives is concerned, that this was incorporated into the '97 law. A year. It means '97. For years, HDZ was in the Croatian state, so it was not the SDP that gave its secretary the authority to remove or not remove secrecy from certain parts of the law. On the other hand, HDZ was also in power in 2004 to 2011 and could change that several times if there were will and desire. But it's not. On the other hand, I'm in favour of removing secrecy from all archives. And I was just as old as my colleague Grumey in '91. I'm not afraid of anything. I'm not ashamed of anything. But you said another sentence by your colleague, Sagar, which is that Croatia is one of the few countries that has not implemented the lustration. And that's right. But we didn't spend it because here, I don't know, if we had spent it then Mr. Perkovic as head of the secret service of the former state couldn't have become head of the secret service in the new state. Then a whole series of ministers in the first HDZ governments of the '90s from Manulic, Bokovac, etc., could not be in those governments, could not create HDZ. Well, then HDZ wouldn't be there. It's a problem why no lustration has been performed. And know one more thing here, and the Croatian public, '91. The year was not a crowd in the SDP, it wasn't a massive run in the SDP, the crowd was on the way out of the SDP but at the entrance to the SDP. So much for a former communist alliance. So they're from the SDP, or the Party, you got a crossroads, the SDP there, HDZ there, they all ran to HDZ. And then they created a state to measure themselves and protect themselves. That's why we didn't have the lustrations of colleagues, and you know it very well because you were in the SDP until a few months ago, so then I don't have to explain to you exactly what the situation was like back in '91. A year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34975	The answer to the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34976	Thank you. You are a young man and, of course, you say as well as many young people in this country, these things may not be so interested, nor were they participants in this event. However, I think this legislative proposal will also have an impact on young people. I disagree with those who say this has no impact on the future. It has an impact on the future precisely for these reasons, and some of you have talked about it. But in order for this topic to not go exactly that way so that now it comes down to me saying that I agree with you between the HDZ and the SDP, there is some data that in the Republic of Croatia there were 400 thousand members of the Communist Union. Not so many of them were safe in Iblero's square when the SDP was established. To avoid that story going in that direction, I think it's not even worth it whether someone was a member of the Communist Party or not. The important thing is that it's actually what motives he's been doing in the Communist party. If he was out of his own interest and later moved to HDZ, because HDZ came to power, because he did not stay in the SDP because the SDP was not in power, so he moved on. And then he tells me as a man, then he tells me I'm a bandit red. I'm a Social Democrats, I'm out of the SDP, but I'm a Social Democrats and I believe in God. I believe in the principles that, I have already said many times that Jesus said. So, it's not good that such people use such methods just because someone doesn't call me a red bandit I want this opened, so let's know who was in the game. But that's not why I don't mean valuable if a man was in a party, was an honest man, did something there, built this country. But the one who was in the party just for the sake of interest and to say it picturesquely so today he would sell the state for a glass of wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34977	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the Living Wall and the SNAGA and will share the time of distinguished representatives Ivan Vilibor Sinčić and Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34978	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here today we have a law dealing with the past. But let's finally close that past, let's close the past and turn to the future. We will, as counterpart Bunjac has already announced, support this law. Unfortunately, we have a conflict here between HDZ and the Most. One of them has already given the law in the procedure. The second proposal, the amended proposal, is just waiting. It's time for them to agree. I want first of all to say from here that we from the Living Wall absolutely condemn all totalitarian regimes, all crimes. We need to mark all victims' places. We stand for the politics of truth. We need to know the truth about your history no matter how she is. Both about everything and about these topics of colleagues and colleagues, we must come to the truth, we are pushing for a scientific approach to the past. It is therefore necessary to open archives, let scientific workers deal with the past on the basis of scientific methods. Let's get the politics out of the past, get the ideology out of the past. Our party is completely free. We don't have any history back there from '45. No one hangs over our heads or conditiones us or calls us, nor are we obliged to open those archives to anyone. Don't open the archives 'cause then we'll, we don't exist. I hope it doesn't exist by any party, the person in this House. So we need to close the past and turn to the future, not for some blackmail or spin for local elections, to do this. And this should have been done a long time ago, and I hope that this law will be the beginning of the end of the debate on the past. The living wall is a party to the future. Again, we will launch an initiative to establish a working body that will deal with the future as a model for the Finnish Parliament in the Croatian Parliament. And I will tell the scientists to do it, so here I give the word to the specialist in the area of Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34979	Thank you. The distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34980	Thank you very much. We today, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, are discussing the need to open archives from the communist Yugoslavia. As President Bozo Petrov said in the introduction, he, many of us, doctored in a figurative sense, and here are some in literal terms. Namely, I had a doctorate on the victims in Croatia during the period from 1914 to 1947, and since this topic from the expert party is very well known to me, I would like to take a brief look at the reasons why these archives need to be opened and finally learn the truth about the age. First of all, I would like to say that we treat our history as demeaning and bad as few countries in Europe and the world. As a rule, these laws already have almost all the post-Communist states and, most regrettable of all, it seems that some of them have better knowledge of Croatian history than we do. For example, Slovenians if we talk about the period of Yugoslavia. We literally don't know what happened, and we don't want to know, as much as we do not know. We don't even know what happened in World War II as unusual as it sounds, believe me, the books written about that period are literally full of mistakes, twists, inventions, ideologies, and I don't know what not. We are not able to find out what happened in the past, but we are destroying it. To know how many graves were torn down in Croatia, beware, graves on graves marked with crosses, burials, it was overrun, it collapsed, hundreds of graves. The graves of soldiers from World War I have been destroyed, let alone from another. It's a direct violation of all human rights conventions between The Hague and the Geneva Convention, it's a war crime. You have no right to tear down the graves of anyone, no one has the right to tear down the grave, and that was our rule. Only that one detail speaks of how we treat the past. And what was happening in the communist Yugoslavia deserves special attention precisely because the archives are completely closed. So as MP Glasovic asked, where archives are, the archive structure has not been destroyed. One small part was destroyed, like all other creatures because of the crippling, but not because of the intention. But that structure is sealed and no one but the minister can reach it, so even an archival employee has no right to remove the seal and access the structure that exists in the archives. And it is saddened to say that when I went to the archives in Belgrade because the Croatian archives were closed, they gave me a view there, and here in Zagreb they did not. The construction of Croatia is what someone said when they will return Serbia to us, so they are essentially more cooperative than our archives here in Croatia. When we talk about the period of Yugoslavia, it is certain that during that period, terrible crimes have been committed against the Croatian people, not only against them, but I am now talking about Croats and that these crimes were not individual crimes, they were fabricated, systematic and often mass crimes. It's thousands of people, and in that first postwar period of one year, two, tens of thousands of people, in Croatian history, it's said little or almost nothing. Imagine that only two years ago, I think two years ago if my memory doesn't cheat, we got Tito's first biography. Croatian historians only wrote a biography of Tito two years ago. We don't have any biography today of Ante Pavelic, imagine how much this stuff is, that taboo that's not to be talked about. You have 500 biographies about Stalin, Hitler, Mussolini wherever you want, you have no idea of Tito and Pavelic, and how to get these other data to ordinary citizens who are most interested in this topic. By investigating these victims, I examined countless copies of the archives and spoke to a minimum of 300 witnesses. And they've been forever since the beginning when they've given testimony about the death of their family asking me, please tell me where my father is buried, where my mother is, where my brother is, don't let me die without finding out, that I at least burn the world down. They didn't ask for revenge, they just said please go to that grave to put candles on. And then I had a situation that now as an expert, as a historian, I come to the archives and those boxes are in front of me, so the answer is half a metre ahead of me, but on those boxes stands a seal, say police administration and an archival employee says, I can't open it, you have to write to the minister. I write to the minister, kindly explain everything, professionally and he doesn't even answer me. And the enigma remains still and at this point is not solved, where someone's relatives are, where they are... And in doing so, I want to add another icon that is very important, at the moment that I couldn't find out through the archives something about the victims, it occurred to me simply to look for murderers, look for murderers, and ask them who they killed and where they buried him. And, of course, some older people immediately came forward, so don't do it by any chance, it's a very dangerous devil never sleeps, what do you know about all the crazy people coming in tomorrow? But I didn't want to stop and I went looking and you know where I found them, I found the first killer in the building I lived in. No, I couldn't find him in Belgrade or Kragujevac. I found him in the building I lived in. And he agreed to invite me to coffee and I talked. And you know what he said to me, and what you're surprised is people disappearing. You did find these that disappeared in the Homeland War, you didn't, so you find them first, and then you come to me, I'm an old man already. So I asked him, sir, wasn't your actions in any way inhumane? And he tells me, and what your police can do, she's completely powerless, she has no authority, no one respects her, she can't solve even the most difficult crime cases. And we solved it, people respected us, if they were afraid of us. And that's how the conversation ended. After that, I went to a conversation in Belgrade, and I talked to a high-ranking UDBA officer who was dying, and he died seven days after my interview with me, and we talked, and he's already... I'm sorry it's so funny? And I simply asked him if what you were doing was a crime? You killed people. And he said like this, from your angle of looking at a young colleague, from the point of view of your time we committed a crime, but from my point of view and from the corner of my time we did the right thing and that was his answer. And you know what I finally had to conclude? That other than the victims, there are murderers and murderers living next door to me, close to my children, if you will. And that there are people who have never been responsible for it, one day they haven't been in jail and even at death they don't regret what they've done. And these people, unfortunately, this law will no longer sanction in any way, they died, especially those responsible for those most brutal, most massive crimes in 1945 to 1947, never. Maybe they'll pin down the law of an individual killer in the '80s, it's mostly about individuals but not about those who say their hands are the most bloody. If there's nothing else we can do then at least let's get this law adopted as soon as we can to start registering our victims, their cemetery and begin to heal this society. Because if this society doesn't heal, if we don't say what happened in the past we'll have multiple tragedies through several generations and I remind you that scientific research has shown that even grandchildren have serious traumas compared to their grandfathers if they haven't been able to find out what happened to them and if justice isn't satisfied. It's not a crime, it's not a problem that stops the moment someone's buried, it's a problem that lasts through generations, which we can say takes almost a hundred years and without which society can't go forward. We need to move forward, we need to turn to the future, but we need to tell what happened in the past, and we need to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34981	Thank you very much. We have a series of replicas on your exhibit, and almost half of the members present have come forward, so let's take our turn. First Honourable Representative Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34982	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bunjac, we have received two completely conflicting messages from your club. First, my colleague Sincic said let's turn to the past that we need all of this. I agree far more with this assessment of yours that we're doing everything we can not to know the past and that if we don't understand the past we will simply make mistakes in the future. What you said very plastically about it and about these victims and all the totalitarian regimes and the first and second ones we lived with, simply if we didn't know that grade then we'd live there and experience these unbulful grades as we just heard earlier that the lustrations of the '90s weren't because Manulic and Bolkovac could be ministers. It is said that the SDP, or SKH, had lastrated these people long before and those who were there had not been members of the party for many years and decades. Therefore, these attributes cannot be attributed to them. So we just need that one grade to know what the power schedule is, to know that the SDP is up to '93. was SKH, the Union of Communists of Croatia, that for years he had a president of the SDP who was the president of the SKH and that the aggression against Croatia was made by the party, the Communist Party... Yugoslav armies and through a communist party that is only in Serbia and which only changed its name and remained what it was and what it was until then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34983	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34984	Thank you very much, Reverend Tudjman. Well, I think we can agree that if we can at least follow examples of post-Communist countries if we do not want to follow the examples of Western European countries. These things have long been explored, books written long ago, and they have really managed to turn to the future and we see that they have both the work of GDP and a good standard. 1700 cemeterys are marked in Slovenia, most of these cemeterys contain Croats. They did the job, they did their best, even though it wasn't their priority. In Ukraine, in Italy you have preserved Croatian graves from the First World War, neatly taken care of, you can remind them. I personally had a chance to go to France, you have from World War II on one side of the meadow American cemetery, on the other side of the meadow German cemetery. All the victims are well-marked, all around the national flag, candlelights are freely lit, flowers are placed. There's no evil blood, no ideologies, no political points. It's a simple issue of human society, organised society, respect for international law. When some time is over, when a state finally goes to the castle of history with the right especially when it goes away, then some subjects need to be concluded in peace. And we've been waiting 27 years to find out that we don't really know much about these things and that only now might we finally be able to get close to that thing. I hope that if this law is passed and when it is passed, these things will be resolved within a few years because there is no reason not to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34985	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Furi Radin. Comrade Pernar, have a seat. Yeah. Here's your colleague, Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34986	Yes, I agree with both my colleague Sincic and my colleague, Bunjac, who spoke of two different aspects related to the documents on these times, the aspect of the past and the aspect of the future. Yeah, the past works for the future. However, when finally, as you have just said earlier, a colleague of Bunjac will finally try to understand what happened then, let's not accidentally go after the national key to see what happened in most nationalities, for example in this case to Croats and forget to explore until the end what has never begun to be explored in Yugoslavia or in Croatia at all, because it is a very sensitive area. But it's not for me, of course. What happened in '43? A year and then from '45. Until '47. and still years in Istria, and it happened to the Italians. Don't forget the foybes, don't forget to explore the foybes. Don't forget to investigate crimes that I don't know how communist they were, but that they were directed towards a certain nationality, I'm sure. So even the communists weren't deprived of nationalism. And here every time he responds to these questions, it's said and it's normal to talk about Croats like that. Don't forget the few thousand Italians who ended their lives in photo shoots just because they were Italians and the few hundred thousand who, fearing all of it, left Istria and changed the demographic picture of Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34987	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34988	Thank you very much, Mr. Radin. It is true that during World War II and after that, minority members were particularly injured, during World War II, members of the Jewish and Roma national minorities, of course especially Serbians, suffered very badly. And during the post-war period, especially members of the German and Italian minorities. However, when approaching this issue, and thank God, this question seems to be a minority in some way even well-read, it is not necessary to see who is of any nationality, or who is of any kind of faith or any other category because it is essentially a person who is dead and who is simply in some imaginary plane with all the rest of the dead. For example, I was glad to hear from this side during the report on the work of the Croatian Documentation Centre recently in the Parliament that he also lists the victims who were killed in the Homeland War in occupied areas, that the members of the paramilitary and members of the rebels are as well as Croatian defenders, that we are now finally having such data and that in fact each of them will get their place in the history of dignity, and the quality of their action for life, so the historians will be able to speak. So, we stand for it, and I hope that the entire profession in Croatia will also advocate, that when we talk about the victims that each victim has his own dignity, his dignity, his own grave and his own peace as the image in the world is so that he is with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34989	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34990	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I thank you for this fine lecture on the past, the former Yugoslavia, their crimes. You put it well, well-exposed that Croatian archives in Croatia are sealed in Belgrade can even get that. It was particularly surprising in this Croatian Parliament that these SDP people laughed at such a sad thing that was waiting 70 years, and it became funny to you, laughing that it would certainly not pass. In this way they show that they are still protecting it and it is a shame to hear it at all in the Parliament at your presentation, that someone smiles and not one man but more of them. I think this is a serious thing and this thing needs to be approached systematically and tried to get to the truth that I was already talking about that the Croatian people have already been waiting over 60, 70 years. And I thank you for your exposure and your research. And all crimes no matter what side the minorities and Serbs and Croats are on, and especially all these communist crimes should come to light and that the people once know what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34991	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34992	Thank you very much, dear representative Misic, for your support. I honestly didn't understand what SDP representatives were smiling about. I want to believe they didn't laugh at my victim presentation. I see that Agent Bauk has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so he'll probably explain it himself now. But what I want to say about my own research and what I told you here today, I recorded all the testimony, registered in accordance with all the rules of the profession, publicly published, it is available, and if someone has a suspicion that what I just said really happened, it can be very easy in the first library available to him, let's say, to the National University Library, to check. So it's simply about data that are credible, and most importantly they have this kind of mass, and yet it's also very important that there are still some living witnesses. Anyone who wants to be interested in it can be interested, and if there are individuals who have such topics politicized and put into frames of some quasi ideology, I simply cannot influence it. Everyone has the right to interpret the results of scientific research in a way that suits him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34993	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the respected representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34994	Mr. Vice President. Representative Misic injured Article 238(5). The Rules of Procedure, because in his reply to the replica, he demeaned and insulted SDP representatives, disrespected and insulted for insinuating any connection with the crimes spoken of there. As for the laughter, the sentence that Mr. Bunjac said was, you never know what kind of lunatics could come to power, it was really for laughing as much as I could say. Therefore, once again, I ask that in this debate no one belittles and insults the representatives of any party. Of course, we can have political differences, but in his historical declaration in 1990, the SDP made it clear what he thought about what was going on in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34995	I must admit that I did not understand the expression of my colleague Misic in that sense that he is accusing today's SDP, and you said about laughing yourself so that I estimate that he is not a injured Rules of Procedure. And now I'm going to give you my word so that you can replicate your colleagues to Bunjca.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34996	I didn't know that if I was next in line, then I wouldn't take this minute. So, my colleague Bunjac, I've singled out four of your sentences. That's the third one I said. So one thing is that we can get data in Serbia, and we can't get data in Croatia, the other is that you can't get data because it doesn't give a minister, and the third is about the corner of time, so I'm going to go to all three now. So as far as you can get the data in Serbia, I'm not surprised. So 80,000 former party members went to Vucic's party but went to HDZ. They have no reason to hide files, for example. Vladimir Shakespeare, they don't. And this is one of the files for which the SDP's secretary-general did not give consent to be seen, according to the Archive Act. Perhaps if he had given consent, perhaps the gentleman would have sued us and had to pay some kind of punishment if not in front of Croatian courts then in front of European courts. As for this not to give the minister, so you see that SDP really has nothing to do with it. We had a minister twice four years, but other parties had ministers. So it's obvious that other state bodies are asking for some things not to be published. So you have here in the government's view on the side of five of today's National Security Council offices asking the Most to change something in terms of giving consent to the creator of the archive. And as for the corner of time, look, I've looked at one of the Croatian court's rightful verdicts for one war crime against the civilian population. Many today would also say that the person convicted is a hero, not a criminal, the same question of time. So "our" can do something, and no one else can. What Mr. Radin said, so there aren't any of ours with those who committed crimes, that must be clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34997	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34998	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bauk. I wouldn't go into it now, whose minister he was, he was the Home Secretary, I wrote him a nice letter, professionally explained everything, I never got an answer. I honestly don't know what his name was, I think it was in 2007 or 2008 when I was texting, but it's less important now. As far as this angle of view is concerned, the truth is that policies are changing and that what has been accepted today in general tomorrow is ignored and vice versa. You have the most classic case of Joseph Broz Tito, whom everyone worshiped, and then everyone supposedly despised him. But I think when we talk about human values and humanity, every man who's pure of heart and pure of mind and who can't bend into daily propaganda has the same criteria. I think that these same criteria have existed throughout history, and if we want to be humanists, then it's very clear to us that what we have to follow, that murder is a crime, that it's a crime, that hiding the truth, and in that sense I don't think we should have any doubts about what's right about what we have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u34999	Thank you. Next is a replica of the respected representative Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35000	My friend, from your presentation, it's kind of clear what makes this matter to us even though it shouldn't be. It is important because it prevents and develops history as science, but it also prevents policy development. Because when the past is dominant in politics, then we have a demonstration of the inability of life. Because we do not practice that skill and mastery of the skills to solve current problems, we suffer shortcomings due to the lack of that skill. I think this law would finally open the door to all those who are lovers of the past to demonstrate their love for the past in an adequate way, which is to explore archives and archives. And that historical truth cease to be seen at the level of truth as subjectivity. Or that they do not justify that truth in their own emotional experience in what they have experienced, in some social security or in persecution rather than finally come into a situation of truth historicly as objective truths and thus open the door and the development of history and the development of politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35001	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35002	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP, you are absolutely right, you are actually calling for what any historian and scientific worker and citizen would agree with, and that history is finally becoming a profession and not that history is some kind of means of politicizing, that everyone knows everything about it and basically no one knows anything. It would be nice for history in Croatia to become about what is not known history in France or perhaps in the UK, to become one of the drivers of the economy, to develop cultural tourism, to open museums, to base it on tourists, to grow GDP, then history would really be a wonderful profession. And in this, this relationship of strength as we now have, history will indeed be unthankful, the historian seems that today, because of his profession, he can only have problems, he may not have a basic existence to talk about some topics. You have a funny situation that in the time of Stalin all historians spoke of the stone age and pre-history, that no one dared even explain the old Egyptian or slave society because it was already a danger that you would end up in a gulag or in some dungeon or so on. So here, if this law can contribute to the healing of a profession that is basically beautiful and has a very good potential, then, in any case, we need to welcome it further.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35003	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35004	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I'd like to ask my colleague, Bunjac, you're a doctor of history. I'm interested in one detail, which is why the murder of tens of thousands of people in Bleiburg by the Croatian authorities is not considered genocide, although apparently 90% of the victims were Croats, although they were mass murder and large proportions, means tens of thousands of people. On the other hand, the Croatian government has repeatedly claimed that the murder of, say, 700 people in Vukovar was genocide. So in one case, where Croats are victims, where tens of thousands of people have been killed, it's not called genocide, and in another case, where hundreds of people are involved, it's called genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35005	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35006	Thank you very much. Representative Pernar, as far as Vukovar is concerned, in Vukovar several thousand people appear to have been killed because it certainly needs to be counted in the whole tragedy and those who died afterwards but regardless of the number of victims, the criteria must be equal. So we can't say that because of the number of victims some crime is greater, some crime is smaller, each one must be equally and justly valued. The fact is that after World War II, a large number of Croats were killed and said that they were deliberately killed by a political decision and that they were all criminals and we know that there were a large number of old people and children and women among them, it's simply not true. Every man who was the greatest criminal in the world has the right to a fair trial. We have in Croatia today terrible crimes, terrible killers, but the same goes to court, is tried and punished. After World War II, it didn't happen. And in fact, what happened happened was a political reckoning, unequivocally, a large part of the political reckoning, but someone answered to forget these things, to keep quiet about these things. And I remind you that in the time of Yugoslavia, even talking about the Bleiburg tragedy could have meant life's danger. And here we are now coming to this situation that we can finally correct this injustice and that we can finally find out what happened, finally find out what happened in that period, make a relevant list of victims, make a synthesis of the victims, know what their number is, and then finally it becomes just a matter of profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35007	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35008	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Representative Bunjac, opening the archives should give an answer to what, we know, clearly happened but we can't prove without documentation. The fact is that part of the building or part of the truth is destroyed by the actors themselves. There's a lot of undocumented events, but the people know, that part should also be explored. I will not mention the numerous cemetery, the numerous victims that occurred after the signing of peace and unconditional capitulation of Germany that happened you well know May 7th was signed, and it took effect on May 8th. The Poles calculate that the day of peace, signing should be the ninth day of peace. In Europe, everyone knows what happened. Do you think that the archives would have been opened before if the lustration had been performed and that some participants would then have responded and been recognized earlier or all of this would be of academic importance and would remain only a satisfaction on August 23rd as the Day of Remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian regimes in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35009	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35010	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As I said during my presentation, I'm afraid if you were thinking of processing the responsible that will never happen to him. It'll never come to him. If by some miracle a charge is brought, it will certainly not come to judgment, and it will not heal most of the wounds. Because those who are the most responsible are simply not available to us anymore because they are not there. Why isn't the lustration done? I wouldn't go in there. This must have been a political decision that those who had exercised power in the 1990s could have made. And generally, as far as lustration is concerned, lustration isn't really any particular persecution, it's no prison, it's no death penalty. It is simply a ban that someone who is compromised in politics continues to perform political duties. In that sense, one lustration should also be considered to be truly complete after the 1990 period and that those politicians who have done harm to the people, and there are, to definitely thank them and to say let them deal with some private matters rather than to rule this people anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35011	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35012	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you're right, the archives should only open up what will come out of it, what will be found is questionable. Most of the victims have already left as well as those villains who did. But this last thing you said was lustration, that's bingo, five. So, to expand the archives even after the 1990s, the ninety-first is particularly interesting with us for the reasons that those who continued their activities in the UDBA and the communist system, the persecution, the surrender of the enemy, the betrayal, the closure of Croatian defenders, the testimony of the fake of the attack of the Republic of Croatia, the aggression on Herceg Bosnia. The people are sitting with us here and still. They continue to implement some policies that they learned long ago on Korčula, at summer camps when they hung out with a third signer... Former Serbian president. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You and I are lucky to have brought our lives out of this war. So I've been doing some research, and I've come up with some results, so I'm in possession of a small portion of a copy of a police associate after the 1990s who continued their old job working for some services. Well, this is where I found my neighbor who you won't believe but the partisan past, who took arms in the Homeland War and went along with us to defend against the great Serb aggressor. So the information number 76 reported by persons who allegedly possess weapons in the city bakery questionnaire, you can see it has three names of those people who first borrowed the weapons. So, they continued their action in our country working against the same state in a way that lured us into getting self-defense weapons in a way that turned them into misdeeds for our actions, in acts of self-defense especially of Croatian defenders in Herceg Bosnia, where our generals are now squatting in The Hague. and prove their innocence. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Because of those same foster parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35013	Thank you. My colleague Bunjca's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35014	Thank you very much, Reverend Culey. I can accept that, for example, there have been some wrong decisions in the SDP regarding past relations, such as the cancellation of parliament's patronage over the Bleiburg tragedy. But I cannot accept that members of the SDP are Yugoslav communists. As they already said themselves during today's debate, many of them were young children or were not even born when Yugoslavia ceased to exist and the Communist Party. You and I know very well that members of the Communist Party have been deployed across all the parties that took place in 1990. No party was that it had not taken over former communists and that they had not repented and I do not know what they had sworn in new values. So they were in all the parties. And actually, when you talk about lustration, I don't think it's right to call for lustration in just one party. If this lustration is going to work, it must be done in all parties. But again, I'm afraid now that you're 27 years from now, you're going to find very few frames that you can lastrate. Certain tails have remained from the past. I hope that this is the way to solving one of the key problems today and that now we will definitely be able to turn some new page in our past, present and future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35015	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35016	Here's my colleague, Bunjac. I'm going to replicate because of three of your statements. First you say we don't have a biography of Joseph Broz Tito. There are many, two are relevant, those of Vladimir Dedier in 1955, which is called "New Contributions to Biography", of course because it was written at a time when Tito was still alive. The second, prominent historians Ivo and Slavko Goldstein of 2015, means 35 years after Tito's death where you will find very valuable data, including data about his funeral of any statesman in recent history. There were 209 delegations from 127 countries, no statesman gathered so many celebrities, not even Nelson Mandela's funeral. I recommend you read it. You say you saw a cemetery of German soldiers in Paris. You didn't have to go to Paris you could go to Mirogi three thousand German soldiers from World War II, every white cross, a plate metal with a name and last name, year of birth, year of death. But 20 thousand more of these marked graves in Croatia in Vrapč, Split, Pula, Valpovo. And the third thing to discover is a secret laugh from the ranks of the SDP, you said that a high-ranking UDBA officer died just seven days after talking to you, and our laughter was a warning to some senior HDZ members to stay away from talking to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35017	Probably now someone in the SDP will react with a breach of the Rules of Procedure to what you just said, I expect. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35018	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stazic. So I said that two years ago the first biography of Tito was finally published in independent Croatia, before it was gone, the Slovenians had them before. Let us say, and yet Tito was born in Croatia, you are obviously impressed with the character of Joseph Broz Tito, I do not want to talk to you about it now because I perform from one position, you obviously others. But make sure that this country didn't fall apart, it would simply survive, and it would be the way it is. Josip Broz Tito and the KPJ had some good moves, undoubtedly people are happy to remember them today, perhaps in the economy when compared to what we have today, but it was not the freedom of the Croatian people in that country and it was necessary and it was good to break up. What you mentioned further about the destruction of the graves, so that it could not be destroyed in Zagreb when 500 thousand people live here, but it is certain that many graves have been destroyed. Here in Čakovec you had a cemetery and soldiers from World War II, from World War I, a large cemetery, a mass cemetery, I can show you the photographs, they're all torn down to the last one, and not to mention unmarked cemeteries that we haven't been able to mention today, I hope we will. I hope that this unmarked cemetery is marked and I hope that such mass graves will exhume and then the victims will be properly buried in the cemetery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35019	Thank you. The next is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35020	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear comrade Bunjac. I listened to you with special attention, so they also said with special piety to the victims that you mentioned through your discussion on the professional side by explaining this topic. I was deeply disturbed by the laughter on the side of the assembly where the SDP sits when you said that a man died after seven days of talking to you, which is very visible from the video that can be seen, and in some other sentence that he mentioned through the breach of his colleague Bauk's Rules of Procedure. But from the replica of my fellow Stazic, I now understand that laugh. I'd like to replicate something else or ask you for clarification. You said on a few occasions that you tried to get through your doctoral work to the archives and half a metre, if I said so correctly, you were up to the box but you couldn't open those archive boxes because you weren't allowed to. Do you think it's possible that someone could still have gotten these boxes and falsified the data inside the archive building? One example. A man came up in some way with his archive file and imagine, I guess at the speed of falsifying the document came up with a name and a last name, a place of residence, an address and that from '94. It's the year of his address because it's '93. Just a changed street, a new street he's been living on since '93. change of street to today. An event in that chart took place back in 1976. Do you think it is possible once again that some have come to these documents and made counterfeits within the archive structure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35021	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35022	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Agent Boban. Of course someone sealed the boxes, it wasn't a robot, it was a man. If you ask me about specific cases, as far as I know, it was abuse of that data. These data could have been obtained exclusively by police officers, and it seems that some of them, I don't know whether on their own or on someone's orders, were working out a part of that data to deal with their political inexperiences, and that was it. Slowly, as far as I've been researching history, sometimes data would appear that no one has ever seen, and these data have always wanted to compromise someone, to protect someone, so it seems that archival construction has been closed to 99.9% of the Croatian public, but that something that is loved in the media is colloktially called intelligence underground, here and there, however, those archives have been opened. And I just hope that when they've been misusing the data, they haven't been destroyed. Given the number of boxes I've seen sealed, and it's really dozens of boxes, I want to believe that there's something in there and that most of what's interested in the public and what we need to find out is preserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35023	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35024	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you have made your contribution to this important topic in several examples as a historian. And I'm glad you're not focused on this debate as a prosecutor or a judge, but you've been expert on an important topic, which is also proof that you can reach an agreement on key issues, and this is one of the important topics in our history. To praise one more time is certainly access to this debate from your side, and inappropriate reactions to part of your presentation speak for themselves as well as this last of Mr. Stazic's. If you notice as well as everyone who looks at us and listens persistently turns away from the topic and throws a completely different picture at the debate, and therefore thanks to the commendable initiative of the Club of Representatives of Most, which is to open archives for the sake of truth, for the sake of sacrifice, for the sake of history, historians, and you who are professionally engaged in such a topic, it is good to approach this topic for our future. And my brief question is, do you think when historians take matters into their own hands will we ever come back to ideologically colored historians making a new story again? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35025	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35026	Thank you very much, Your Honor. When you mentioned ideologically colored historians, and for ideologically colored historians, politics is still due. So no historian has graduated from the university of politically colored historianry, but has graduated from the university of history. But you have such a situation in Croatia that you must satisfy, the first historian must meet someone's political criteria in order to be admitted to work at all. And it happens in Croatia that the historian who wants to tell the truth wants to make an impartial investigation of not only that he can't do it, but often he can't get a job. I personally know a lot of historians who have received all possible international scholarships, I don't know how many languages they have spoken, mastered knowledge like paleography, and I don't know what not all of these professional assistive sciences, but they couldn't get a job because in Croatia, unfortunately, work can be obtained depending on whether someone is following politics left, right, center, I don't know which is not good. That's not good, and you should actually leave the historians alone. Historians should be left alone to do their job according to quality, not to be pressured and harassed all the time, and then they wanted to give no such statements as I actually believe, and they themselves are ashamed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35027	Thank you very much. Here, now we're going to go to another club of MPs just, and that's the SDP's Club of Representatives on behalf of which they will speak the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go. By the time my colleague Grbin gets here, I can't say, not to remind myself of the beginning of this discussion when I was criticised for not warning me to mention the law being prepared by the government. Look at what we've been discussing now, and what the diapazon story is now. That's it. Here you are, dear colleague Grbin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. But in rare moments when you and I agree and thank you for this comment that you have made and I will try to hold on to what is the subject in this debate as much as possible. And the topic is the bill of law sent by colleagues from the Bridge, and I am extremely sorry that at this point I do not see the representatives of the proposings in front of me so that they can constructively respond to the criticisms that I will give them or possibly supplement my presentation. At least the government is present here, and hoping that the final proposal of this law or the law that we will ultimately adopt that the motion of this act will be the Government, it is still more important that you are present here and that you hear these criticisms. Well, let's get it straight. We at the SDP Club talked about it more than once. We've also made certain concrete conclusions, so I'm going to have to go to this exhibit. Therefore, the SDP Representatives Club supports this bill in the first reading, however, with a number of objections to it. However, there are certain remarks concerning the way this bill was addressed in the procedure, which is why he proposed to draw one conclusion, which is that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, a decision is made to assign the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the final draft law, which is at the very end of the line and something arising from the plan of normative activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia made in December 2016. So, I would like to remind you, before the President of the Croatian Parliament decided in some enlightenment that this should be a topic that the Bridge will process as its draft law in December last year to discuss such a bill in the third quarter of 2017. After all, all members of the government voted for it, including those coming from the Most. However, local elections are approaching, topics need to be found, what will warm up the public and then follow all this. So we are coming to the point that a member of the ruling coalition is proposing a law, that the government is basically opposed to it, that in its opinion it represents a whole series of very concrete and justified criticisms to this bill, that then the government's opinion is also voted on by members of that coalition partner who proposed the law, and that, after that, in order to calm down the passions of the coalition, it is concluded that even the majority partner will support this law. I believe that you've lost yourself a little bit following me, but don't worry and I'm reading what I've written down because without reading, I couldn't remember everything that's happened in the process of passing this law. The only thing I can say when we talk about formal things is that I'm extremely sorry that the theme of the archive is a technical subject, however, with a significant political note through this morning's debate turned into something that has nothing to do with the archives. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues when we talk about punishing crimes not just those of '45. 'til the 1990s than those before and after. All of these documents are available to law enforcement bodies. Opening archives and sanctioning criminals are two things that are not necessarily connected. But let's also go after the matter of the law. This morning, during a debate on the Committee on Legislatives to the Labour Body of the Croatian Parliament, who, among other things, cares about the constitutionality of the acts brought by this House, tried to find out from the promoter an answer to a simple question, which is whether the legislator knows whether he has ever heard of something called Article 37. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and now I'm going to expand it a little bit, and I'm going to take the turn. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution protects the family life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter Security and protection of the confidentiality of the personal data of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But it's not the end. Personal data protection is also governed by the EU Treaty, the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the EU, on the Protection of Personal Data. A whole series of directives, regulations, have been adopted. We also have decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the protection of personal data and that is important to everyone other than the legislators of this law. Why? Because since the Republic of Croatia is a member of the EU, there has been an obligation for the proposings of each act to enter into the legal property of the EU, and for the protection of personal data, to enter into the legal property of the EU as I have shown you and to clearly refer to the EU Treaty, etc. to prepare something called a declaration of compliance of the draft regulation with the EU acquis. Of course, this is usually followed by a table of parallel representation so that it can be seen in particular which segment of an act is or is not in line with EU law. It's not here, and it should be. It should be, because this law in its most problematic part intervenes precisely in the protection of personal data. And now you probably expect me to start with the date, but I won't. I will begin with the part relating to the amendment to the proposed Article 21. In that Article, paragraph 2 provides all the information you consider to be personal data and tax. And you know what's not there? Family life. For you, the data on the family life of Croatian citizens are not personal data, i.e. they are not data that are protected and as such are continuously publicly available and for those data that were generated after 22 December 1990. And for those data created before December 22, 1990, there is absolutely no limit. And he's right to vice president of this House when he was speaking at a session of the Croatian Chamber's parent working body this morning about problems stemming from such a colossal so I don't say a lapidary solution. That anyone and anyone who has been the victim of communist persecution will be able to peer into his family life. Imagine, imagine the situation of someone who was a victim whom we will all today dig not for the evil that was happening to him, but for his private family matters that should remain secret for everyone, especially for the victim. There is one fantastic German film called "The Life of Others" that speaks of one particular situation. And I ask my colleagues from MOST to before we vote on this bill, and we will vote on Wednesday so you have plenty of time to look at that film and look at what has been the subject of the processing of secret services. But we're back now from that to the date. December 22, 1990. Why? Why not October 8, 1991? Why not January 15, 1992, when we became an internationally recognised state? Why not November 6, 1996 when we entered the Council of Europe? Why not January 3, 2000 when democratic shifts occur? Why? Because you are not interested in revealing the past and facing the past and facing it, you are interested in ideological and political reasons only one segment of the past. And I'm telling you, let's open up what was before December 22, 1990. I'm asking you to open it. Of course, with restrictions on protecting the personal and family lives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but let's open this up. But let's open up what happened after. For example, let's open questions, and this is a debate on the core of the law because this date is the content of this bill, let's say that we open up questions, who was scurrying with the SAO landscape and the Serb republic? Who sold oil and weapons during the Homeland War? Let's open it. Let's open up the issues of conversion and privatisation, open up the issues, and face the criminal acts that took place during that period. Let me remind you, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that these crimes do not go out of date. Let's move on, war crimes. War crimes I think we will all agree on this, in Croatia are not sufficiently processed. We want to process them. Let's open the archives, see who did the crimes, sanction them if that's the intensity of this law, but let's not stop at one flat-rate date from 1990, see who did what after that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, who have prepared this law and who have proposed it. From your discussions, especially when you refer to what the government has written, you clearly do not care about adopting a good, whole legislative solution. You're only up to one more topic before the local elections. However, the SDP to such a game does not agree to participate. We are in favour of opening what needs to be opened, we will support this law in the first reading, but we ask that for a second reading of the bill the one who can do it prepare. And that's not you bridge colleagues, that's not you. It is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And then we'll talk about this proposal in a metric way, and then we'll be able to discuss concrete full legal solutions. Now let me devote a few minutes to everything that has been said so far, and it concerns the practical application of this law, especially from the point of view of SDP. My colleague Jovanovic has already said, and I will remind you. On 3 November 1990, a historical declaration was adopted at the first SDP convention, which considered the SDP a historical and moral duty, to apologize for all that and for all those to whom the damage had been done and to whom the injustice had been done from 1945 to 1990. I've done it more than once, and I'm gonna do it again today. Furthermore, respected colleagues and colleagues, let's talk about the archive material of the Central Committee of Communists of Croatia stored in the Croatian State Ark. On 31 August 1992, the Presidency of the SDP of Croatia, when there was no legal obligation to do so, took the decision to hand over the registration and archival buildings created by the work of the Communist Party of Croatia and the Union of Communists of Croatia, 1992. Realisation starts in 1995 and, given the volume of archive construction, continues continuously and ends in 2012. There's nothing left of us ever since. And just so you know how much material we're dealing with. It is the documents of the members of the SKJ, the personal files of the SKH, the personal files of the inforbirovacs, personal files from the work of the Staff Committee, personal files from the work of the KPH SK. It's all covered by that surrender. It's about 6,500 boxes that fall off members of the SKH, about 200,000 files of former members and another 7,500 boxes containing the rest of the material. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can talk about whatever we want, but the Republic of Croatia is a follower of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in the same way as the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was a follower of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, before that of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, before that of the countries of Slovenians, Croats and Serbs, Austro-Hungarian, Kingdom of Serbia, etc. It's called state law continuity. The state's legal continuity was recently discussed by Minister Stier, as the state's continuity was important at the time a three-and-a-half billion-dollar lawsuit arose against the Republic of Croatia. The state's continuity means that even during that state, something that, for certain reasons I know nothing or need to know about, because I don't deal with areas of security and intelligence, there's something that needs to be protected as a state, military or other secret. But I'm not going to decide, I'm looking at a colleague who knows a lot, a lot more about it than I do, and he knows why I'm talking about it, and he knows why there are certain restrictions, and he's going to decide the authorities. Unfortunately, this law does all of this in an incorrect way, and for this reason, I will repeat it once again, we support its intensity, but all that is related to the realization, says, such an article in this form cannot exist as a law in the legal order of a state that wants to be modern and democratic. My colleagues, correct him until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35029	Thank you very much. And there's a huge series of replicas on your exhibit. He is the first to present his representative, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35030	My colleague, you're talking about the date and you're wondering why we're stopping here at December 22, 1990, and you're saying that there's a line put there so we don't know, so the archives don't reveal who was selling oil and weapons to the SAO, who got rich through privatisation. He wants to hide a whole series of other relationships. Right, for criminal offences this law does not need, for the processing of criminal offences, because law enforcement authorities can come to that data if they want to. But there can be no nature of relationship, which is important for historians and history. For example. relations between Mr. Perkovic and the first president of Tudjman. Which is reportedly, I read it in the papers, I don't know if it's true. You should check in the archives, said the attack on Perkovic was an attack on me. If it wasn't for Perkovic I'd never get my passport, I couldn't start HDZ. Is it true or isn't it true? To find that in those archives isn't just Perkovic. It's a whole series of fatties, dozens, hundreds of refugees who ran over, went to the HDZ, and they're there today. That's what he wants to hide from the public, and that's why this line is being set. It doesn't make sense. Stupid. If we care about the truth, then let's find out the truth. You'll have like a colleague, like you said, a colleague of the coat of arms you'll have in it the support of the SDP. We do not run away from it because we have nothing to be ashamed of, for we have nothing to fear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35031	The answer of a respected colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic, I will try to sum up what you said in a short sentence, which is if we open up then we open it all up. If we're going to stand up for such a policy, I think this is the right direction. But then I think we have to be ready to release as many ghosts from the bottle and then we have to be ready to face them. But yeah, I support it, let's open it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35033	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35034	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Grbin, you said article 37. Protection of personal data. Whether the article protects Croatian citizens, it is true, but it does not protect the citizens of the former Yugoslavia who have persecuted the murder of these same Croatian citizens in the past. Neither is Croatia a follower of Yugoslavia nor of any other state, but Croatia is the product of the Croatian people's desire for independence, for their country and for freedom. All that was before was the dungeon of the Croatian people. The Croatian people gained their independence in 91st, 95th with their Croatian defenders. I will read the same to you after you are bound to date, I will tie myself to 75th, and it says this: “If we were complex and honest we would have a country a long time ago, and it will be, then Croatia will be born free when the Berlin Wall falls and communist bloody empires fall like card towers. There's no state that's created without bloody underpants. We will probably have to kill ourselves for freedom with Serbs, and perhaps with the Turks. The burden of war will have to bear all equally. But once we get rid of Serbian slavery and create a state, you'll see how our people are only stealing. Every century he stole and stole us, and the worst of it will be when our people steal us and sell us to the world's fuckers and pimps." And your companion, your party of the same man, in some past time, has put us out of business, and you may have protected his murderers from all of Europe at the disgrace of Croatia's famous Lex Perkovic case. What did we get with it in the end? That these villains were sentenced to life imprisonment, and we were protecting them. We were protecting the criminals. I'm not saying there were no defects. There were them. Probably some with positive things have gone our way, and many are negatives that can't be hidden at any time. For the right of sacrifice is the right to the truth and no right is greater than that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35035	Thank you very much. Here's a response from the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35036	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you've relieved your colleagues of Culea's hands, both in speaking and in time. But don't, don't mind. When I spoke state-law No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Intruder Reiner: My apologies.]] When I was talking about the state's continuity, I was talking about something that was written in a document for you, a colleague of Culej who swears to this country completely unknown, which is this, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In the original foundations, and I hope you know who prepared them and who wrote them, it is very clear what the continuity of the state-law continuity of the Republic of Croatia rests on. So I'll read you just one of those segments. Banovina Croatia in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The establishment of the foundation of state sovereignty in the period of World War II is expressed against the declaration of the Independent State of Croatia in the decisions of ZAVNOH, and then in the Constitution of the National Republic of Croatia and after the constitutions of the Socialist Republic of Croatia. Dear colleague Culey, history is a fact that you may like or not. But you and those like yourself won't change it or change it. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has set out some frameworks in which we must move both when we talk about the state's legal continuity and when we talk about fundamental rights and freedoms of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Article 35 and Article 37 protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. None of these articles, like any other, protects the victim's right to know about his perpetrator. But it's not about the archives. This is related to the conduct of the judicial authorities of this country. And as a crime knows no nationality, neither does the victim of counterpart Culei.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35037	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Šimic, Miroslav Šimic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35038	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A dear colleague of the coat of arms was interesting to listen to you. It's often interesting to me when you speak on behalf of the club because often what we hear individually from your representative here on boards and finally here at the stage doesn't quite agree with what you're saying on behalf of the club. So if I didn't believe what they were representing, then the intensity of your entire speech, what I could conclude, and we support it, it's all actually meaningless, we support it, but with one big fig in my pocket. However, I will still give confidence to your colleagues that I have listened to on the board today and have listened to in these replicas and discussions and I believe that the SDPs will support this bill. And you as a respected legal expert who heard that I was known in the assembly benches for the fact that the Constitutional Court often destroyed his legal solutions. Help us prepare a second reading, so put all your ideas and suggestions on paper. We, as proposing representatives, will be very happy to consider everything. You mentioned here personal data and the possibility to possibly access certain personal data, so I would just like to tell you about the preparation for the next debate to look at the EU Data Protection Regulation of 2016 when you are already calling for EU law, so you say that public authorities or public or private bodies or public or private bodies that possess public interest records should be services which, under Union or law of the Member State, which are archives have a legal obligation to acquire, maintain, evaluate, agree, describe, communicate, promote, spread, provide access to records of lasting value for the general public interest. Member States should also be empowered to provide for further processing of personal data for archiving purposes, for example with a view to providing specific information regarding political behaviour during the former totalitarian state regimes, genocide, crimes against humanity, particularly holocausts or war crimes. And in the end, when you said if we open it, we open it. All I can say is that it's extremely unserious. MOST has made a proposal here regarding the archives of the former state, and for a reason it has done so, because no serious state will go into anything else for the time of its existence. So, in this proposal, it's not even worth discussing, it's purely politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35039	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35040	Dear fellow Simic, then find out when that country stopped being ex-boyfriend, so set that date. I guess you do. You have decisions of the Constitutional Court, you have the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, you have the opinion of the Badinter Commission. Ask around. Ask yourself the effect of my address to the Constitutional Court during my term of office while I was at the head of the Constitutional Committee, because as far as I am aware, every inquiry I have sent to the Constitutional Court, or which I have prepared, is in this form and adopted all the referendums when the act prepared by the Constitutional Committee was. Unfortunately for the Law on the Selection of Representatives, it wasn't the case, but look, I've learned from my mistakes. You've had a chance to learn from my mistakes, so you repeat them anyway when you're preparing your laws. Comrade Simic, but let's leave these verbal bickerings to some shows or something, let's concentrate on what's important. The SDP representative club supports this bill in its first reading. But also on the Education Committee, and especially on the Legislative Committee, which you unfortunately did not attend, so you couldn't listen to a whole series of serious remarks. You've now had your chance, you can take later as a representative of the proposer, and now there's a colleague of Grumoja, thank him for that. Is there a chance to answer what's wrong with the declaration of conformity? Do you even know what that is? Did you make it? Now you're saying you have a European directive from 2016 that regulates this area. Where's the compliance statement? Where is the list of standards set out in this Directive transposed by this law into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia? What provisions are being passed on from that? How will you deliver this to the European Commission when we have to report on national implementation measures if you know what they are to Simic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35041	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable representative Zeljko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35042	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I'd say Mr. coat of arms is an amazing smoke curtain, but still a smoke screen. Like this, you mentioned one film, it is, of course, selective memory and the worst problem of Croatia's selective memory. There's another movie called... A confession where a political prisoner meets his, the French film of his persecutor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The persecutor stole everything in that system. He smudged the money, his property, etc. He's sitting in a park without a pickpocket, and he sees his stalker, and he tells him, and that was then, and now he is. That mental set is actually, it's a big trick because that mental set of homojugoslaves,... Inherits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's also a lustration. Secondly, archives are only part of it. Opening, returning to the Croatian people and collective memory that you are today try to stop it and your successors. It's just part of it. The other one is... A first-hand witness. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] These people die and do not punish the greatest criminals in this part of Europe above the Soviet Union. We're almost there, but you're not gonna make it. The third forensic record you speak very coldly, you are abstentioned, quote laws, articles, you have two commissions in Slovenia that will remind you that only in a month 150 thousand people have been killed by most Croats. And what's since '41? By '45.? Who's preventing chronology? The Croatian people can no longer... They're watching us today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian people were until '95. Like a man who wakes up every morning with a new amnesia attack. What's the matter, you're calling on the EU. You have a platform there and it's said... that he must return the confiscated property. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] What's the matter with that? Nothing. Thousands of people live in other people's apartments, etc. etc. In East Germany, the victim can see his file from secret services, etc. A criminal organisation has been declared in Bulgaria's Communist Party. In Romania you have the Institute of History... And there was killed... [[You don't understand a word.]] People. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only you forget that hundreds of thousands have been killed, hundreds of thousands of times one, and every victim is a tragedy. But you won't succeed in that intention to erase people's collective memory. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] You won't make it, Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35043	Comrade Glasnović, thank you very much. You're running out of time. Here you are, the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35044	Give my colleague Glasnović far more meaning than I think I have. But well, that's your right. But I'll cut short because your chatter doesn't deserve much more than a brief answer. You're just like me. A year ago, I told you if you had any cheeks, you'd suggest a lustration law so we could discuss it. You didn't do it then you didn't do it now. With these other things you said, so look, I mostly don't understand them, and they don't deserve an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35045	Please don't yell from the bench. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35046	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Grbin, we all agree here that archival construction should have been available long ago, and that's first and foremost. And the key question is, why hasn't any former culture minister dealt with it with it by one move of feathers by now? That's the key question. You were talking about European legislation, so it is undeniable that there is a great public interest in lighting this issue because it has not been enlightened for all these twenty years. And that's undeniable. And on the other hand, it is undeniable that you have legislation that prescribes the protection of privacy of personal data and we, as a member of the European Union, are obliged to implement that legislation and one does not exclude the other only needs to be harmonised. But what's important to mention, and nobody here mentioned, is that there are two so-called. IMO Res. MSC.1/Circ.124(a)-(a)-(a)-(b)-(b)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c)-(c) One was signed by former Prime Minister Racan, the other by former Prime Minister Milanovic. And you know it. The construction of the CK is now and publicly well and it was available, and the construction of secret and other services is some other structure and it needs to be declassified. What's this about? Well, it's that his colleague Grumoja was wrong to say -- I don't think the SDP is a legal follower of the KPH. That may not be your opinion of you, but you're wrong. Because the Social Democratic Party inherited this building by quoting the clause where it writes – that each use of the same building must be asked – who? Then the Secretary General of the SDP. And the fact is that often the secretary general of the SDP did not want to sign the Director of the Archives's consent to make the construction available, which should have been. And now the question is, can a single hand-off record be above the law, be above the government's decision, be above the minister? He can't! And why was that? Now, that's what I'm interested in answering that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35047	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35048	Dear colleagues, I didn't expect such a replica from you, but that's quite all right, you're as politician as I am, so you probably know as well as I do that recently from a month ago - two, in political communication other than facts we have alternative facts. And what you're saying is alternative facts. Why? Because they're just not right. And exactly the following is, there are a whole series of situations where the data requirements from this archive building have been rejected for a number of reasons, poor of them is access to personal data. The second is, for example, access to classified data. In the case of access to classified data, such a requirement does not even occur at the SDP, but is rejected at the previous level. So, apriorius rejects it himself State Archives when it comes to this structure when it comes to other structures. However, there are access to personal documents, so there have been requests to access personal, i.e. documents relating to personal data and some prominent politicians and today very active in Croatian public life, some call them King... and, of course, according to the rules on the protection of personal data, such documents could not be available. You today, if ultimately, excuse me not today, but when ultimately it is decided, if you accept this, you will take the view that in personal data that cannot be published, which is protected, nothing enters, anything that was done before 22 December 1990. You don't guarantee citizens' privacy before December 22, 1990. And look, fellas, the world didn't start with you or me. And you have to keep that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35049	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Krizanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35050	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to say before my replica that I am for the immediate opening of archives related to totalitarian regimes, and therefore I will strongly support the objective and purpose of this law. And to you, Mr. Representative, you have said that today's debate has moved away from archives and archive material and this law intervenes in the protection of personal data. That's where I agree with you. Namely, Article 4 of the Law provides, I would like to see it there, is Mr. Grumoja, let him listen too because I wanted to replicate it, that the public archive material containing personal data, I see it there, in the part relating to personal data, is available to use 40 years from its creation and 100 years from the birth of the person to whom it relates or 10 years from death, where the first period of availability is considered available. I think that this deadline is questionable at least for a part of the data that is listed as personal, which is, above all, what I mean is the data for health and sex life. Consider, for example, a person who at the age of 15, 16 or 17 made an abortion. Whether you keep that opening such or similar. documents in the area of justice, e.g. matrimonial litigation for the public still during a person, for whom 18+40=58 years of age does the age of the person for whom the documentation applies not mean a violation of the integrity of the person concerned? In the archival law of the Republic of Slovenia, the material that contains the data is available within 75 years of 10 years or 10 years after the death of the person to whom it relates. That part I wanted to suggest you consider for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35051	Thank you. Here will be answered by the esteemed representative of the coat of arms even though he is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35052	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I thank you very much for this replica. The article you have discussed changes the existing Article 21. The law on archives, etc. and is just changing those provisions concerning the availability of archive material. And you're absolutely right. As we all focused on issues related to the Yugoslav communist regime, we have little missed the fact that the provisions of the current Article 21(1) are extremely changed exactly in the way you said. What has so far been limited to 70 years, is down to a 40-year-old limit, and it is completely unacceptable. Given that human life span is increasing and not shortening, the question is, today, is this 70-year limit enough? Because it's not easy, I'm sorry, it's not hard to imagine a situation where someone with a year or two is operated on by some kind of disease that is still considered problematic in today's society for some kind of crazy reason. But it would still be extremely embarrassing for that person to find out. And we'll open it. So far, it's going to open up when he's 72 years old, and now if he's 72 years old, it's going to open up when they're 42 years old. And now you imagine a person in public life with five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten years had some extremely unpleasant surgery and it was found out in the tension of her life span. That part of this law is extremely problematic and goes under the radar, and the proposings are not even trying to explain why it is. I think the public has a right to know. But it is the right of the public to know and extremely limited, and it is precisely the right individual to protect his personal family, etc. Life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35053	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35054	Thank you. My esteemed colleague, the coat of arms, agrees mostly with your debate, and I will not talk about ideological assumptions, but I will talk about the specific provisions of this law. But I must say, I'm surprised by the ease with which certain people qualify the former country as a country of terror and fear and they had a very nice life in that country, they had a good standing, a status. And some aren't even born in that country, and they're very easy on such qualifications as we heard today. However, I fully agree with you, Mr. Grbin, that this is a flat-rate solution to the legislative proposal. We did not get an answer from the promoter, which is why this law is passed by emergency procedure. I don't see what's so important about it, which is why it's being brought in by an emergency procedure that it can't go into normal procedure. Article 3 is disputed, of course, why the deadline for the application of this law is 22.12.90. We didn't get any concrete answers. Article 4 has opened the question for 40 years, which you explained very nicely. So I think the previous solution in the existing law was more appropriate, more normal and should be kept. Also, if the promoter told us that there was a problem with the cost of passing certain documents, in Article 6, I did not see you specify how cheaper access to such data would be defined. So you've given a general definition that can be interpreted in different ways. In Article 10, you gave a very short deadline for the application of this law for 6 months. Are we authorized to implement this law within six months, etc. So, what I'm saying is I totally agree with you that this law is very casually done and put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35055	Thank you. Before I give a word to my colleague, I must correct you. You need to take a closer look. This is the first reading. The law doesn't go by emergency procedure. It's the first law reading. Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, you're right. This is the first law reading. But it's also true that the law is a little speedy in the process. Because if I'm not mistaken yesterday night, it was announced that today we're going to discuss the law regarding railways. But then in the morning when we come to the hearing, we find out that Then I apologize. [[/Intruder Reiner: No. I'm sorry, I have to correct you. You're wrong.]] However, the fact is that he is in a bit of a hurry with the procedure and that there were certainly many more important laws ahead of us that needed to be discussed. There have been some reports that have been waiting since 2015 but can't get in line. But let's go back to the bill itself. You have pointed very precisely at another problematic item in this bill. You said expenses. Did you read in the reasoning of the law what it says about the costs of this law? It says that the implementation of this law will not require additional costs in the Republic of Croatia's budget. Puff. Then the government's opinion comes and says it will. Why? Because it is predicted that a whole series of documents from the State Archives will be obtained without compensation. So now I'm asking you, who's gonna pay for it? State Archives. Who provides funds for the work of the State Archives? So in those moments, that is, in those situations where the parties themselves provide it with the costs of the work of the archives, they are provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. So, what? It is not true that the implementation of this law will not require costs in the state budget. And watch out now. In the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and I often have to refer to this document today because this law is completely out of line with it, it says that each regulation must contain its financial impact. This one does not contain, or even worse, but incorrect, not to say false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35057	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35058	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, before I go on the line to say about these nice topics, in the sense that it's nice to talk about Tito, about a nice life in the former Yugoslavia. I invite you all to come down, we have a beautiful phenomenon, we have a witness of time naked island. Come and see how nice it was there and what it looks like today and how the system was kept in safe hands. I will be your guide to all those who speak of the beauty of that time. As far as my replica goes, you mentioned the date 3.11.'90. and some kind of declaration. I have already spoken here several times with my SDP colleagues on the topic most with the current constitutional judge, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic. She promised to give us that declaration the whole time, that we would see her and she really wasn't available. I don't think it's in any form written, digital. Do you have that declaration or is it something you put as something that exists and no one can see it? Put her out. It's a good exclusive for some weekly, for some newspaper that we really read what it says there. Because there's always talk of her and you can't find her anywhere. I hope even the Secretary-General's signature will not be an obstacle to us seeing her exist and talking about her all the time. Here, promise me at least since my colleagues are no longer here to see her, let's see what she really says. Because we often talk about it, and it's never there, you can't find it anywhere. You really can't find her. Even at the time of these 22.12.'90. So that was 3.11.'90s. We might even get into this part when we're talking about time to when, so we want to see a variety of documents all over the state archives. And as for the costs, they do exist. We've also seen through a public debate that is in favor of this document. 20 miles of paperwork should be stored somewhere. And that is why we must really, when we talk about this law, think carefully about the costs and what we need to do to make this law better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35059	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. I'm already in mine. I'll start from the end of your exposure. I already said in my speech on behalf of the MP club that only the documentation submitted by the SDP is 14,000 boxes, 14,000 boxes. So, it's not the documentation that's in the SDP. It is the documentation in the Croatian State Archives. It's documentation that needs to be catalogued. This carries costs, and then imagine now unlimited access to it without compensation for photocopying etc. So I think the statement that this law will not create any cost is simply surprising. As far as the declaration is concerned, the local elections are ahead of us, but you and I are quite regular at the assembly sessions. I suggest you come with me next week to Ibler Square 9. They won't burn you. We'll have a cup of coffee, take a look at that declaration. Well, no, come with me. Well, you can Google it a little bit, try harder, or come with me and have a cup of coffee. But now for the end one thing about Goli Island. I am not today, not once as my party has repeatedly made it clear that what happened since '45. By 1990, but not always in the same intensity is for every conviction. You tell me, you'll take me to Goli Island, you'll be my guide. You don't have to, a close member of my family was there not once, twice. You know what two years after they could hold them without conducting the proceedings he's earned twice, they say the two-engine was. We all know what's going on on the naked island, that's what we should condemn and condemn. But these solutions won't lead to conviction. She'll only lead to a splash of some kind of apology, Vice President, another sentence, some kind of personal pain from those people who'll only be bigger after this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35061	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35062	Dear counterpart Grbin, I can agree by looking at the side of the profession that you definitely belong to around nomotechnics, pronunciations, perhaps harmonising with a number of regulations that will be found in this proposal certainly some mistakes. Perhaps some misunderstandings, but it was a clear message and a club of representatives of the Most give your contribution. Don't just talk about defects all the time, but make specific suggestions because in some ways I feel like everybody's backing up, that's when they support you, tap your shoulder, and at the end of that tap, you just sink, you sink. But I would say that even the coming of the Most into these lines here in the Assembly comes from the Living Wall, from all of them to say such people who simply don't accept the model no more or delaying change says that the need for change is really important. And I just think that it's also okay that you can access that documentation for the principal reason that a number of people will be able to see that the documentation and I personally believe is no longer complete, that it's already already partially defiled, that already part of it is missing, that it will then be able to initiate the search procedure for who accessed it, in which way, why the destruction occurred. And if we can't do that, then we wonder how if we can't do this procedure for the former totalitarian state, how do we prevent a number of criminal organised activities that are going to happen now? We won't have the strength. It's a clear message that we're sending that nothing can change in the past, so we won't be able to do it in the present. So personally, I'm not one minute off. You should go out with that exactly so that those important people who are looking for certain information about themselves, actually who are looking for data feel threatened and that they don't act in old forms anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35063	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35064	Your esteemed colleague said something very dangerous, and I don't think you're even aware of that. You see the past can't change, then it is. Our relationship with her may change, but the past cannot change. What's right is that we need to change the future. With these proposals of the law, in this way prepared, on a flat-rate basis, we're going to change the future up because we're going to create critical points of conflict, but not necessarily at the level of political options, but rather at family level. Just imagine a situation where a neighbor will go a little bit protracted because it will be unlimitedly available documents, his neighbor will go a little fart about what he was doing, and then he will see that he was under UDBE measures. Well, then he'll see, and look at the wonders that neighbor was at the time when he was at work, getting into his house. I'm a cartoonist, but I deliberately referred to the movie "Life of Others" as a fantastic German film that talks about an agent of schtasia, who did just that. He watched every minute of his family's time. And every second, every store that happened in that house, every fight was recorded. And this bill will make her available. Dear colleague, I'll be done with one thing. I know that your political option has had trouble knowing what the coalition is. But don't say you don't know what opposition is. The job of the opposition is to criticise, to point to shortcomings, and sometimes to come out with its solutions. In a particular case, this isn't about a shoulder tap. This is about pointing out very specific cases of instability in your law. And I didn't make you accept him. Leave him to the government to do his job or you do him as you know him and can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35065	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35066	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. People love history and it's good, its own, family, home, club, parties, nations, the world and so on. And there are situations where the situation of the history of benign is and there are situations where the history of malignancies is discussed. What we have today or what we have for over a quarter of a century is not a benign debate about history. We're hostages of history, we're prisoners of history. We're not learning history, but we're actually getting involved in historical trio and puppy historical, dangerous and less dangerous episodes. I'm not a historian, but what I know about history requires me to be careful with her. We live in a country that is situated in an area that has been in the past, so only when we look from 14 to 95, so only when we look at this period for about 80 years during the short century as some prominent historians, centuries of extremes, have we had three wars. 12 years since those 80 years have been war years, directly war years without mentioning war periods that always wear elements of the echo of war and the consequences of war and war behavior. Dr. Crescent. Radin said something about it, so the 45th ended the war, and it lasted until 50th, the 18th ended the war, and it lasted again in some form after that. '95. It ended the war, so it lasted again in some sense and a few years after that. So, when you look at it, it requires us, so, and it wasn't, every regime that changed has accused the previous ones. The Kingdom of Yugoslavia Austria, the NDH Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Titos Yugoslavia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the NDH, our Croatian Yugoslavia, the communists, unfortunately more than NDH and Ustasha, and that is to be said, it is seen and felt today in this debate as well as in everyone who has been led in this House. Thousands of monuments were destroyed from 91 to 95, hundreds of tombs devastated, mass graves, innocent and innocent people. We say, you should mark the other ones. We should, but we can't have a clear conscience if we allow what happened at the same time. In other words, yes, the Club of Representatives of the SDSSA is about making our archives more accessible and open. But how? How? What happened to them? Where's the building? Is she preserved, where she is located? We only know some parts. There's something in the SDP. And how many went in different directions than 89. - 90, 91, and where is it? And what happened to her after 91st and where is it? So that we can talk about the truth that is determined on the basis of an archival structure, and the truth based on an archival structure is only one small segment in determining the truth. It's just one of the possible evidence of what's happened in history. But certainly not enough and not everyone who knows anything about history knows that. So in court, let alone in history. So those who spread the illusion when the archives open up for everything we'll have historical truth. No, it's a hoax. It's a manipulation of archives, not a desire to get to the historical truth. The historical truth has its own dimension in the debates that we have here sometimes unblemished, but necessary by chance. And how unsatisfactory sometimes I can be that we run it like this, but obviously we need it. And it's not enough what we do. Well, it's not enough that someone's gonna be doing it in the archives tomorrow either. We need the academy. We need research. We need an archivist to be promoted. Our archives are guarded by people in private spaces. How and under what circumstances we don't know. A good part of the archive building is who knows where. Private property. Why? That's the kind of time they've had. Everyone knew the time would come for an archive construction account, everyone knew both those from the former and those from the current racquets. Because it's known that when regimes change that the first thing that goes or one of the first things is an accounting of archival structure. And whoever's in charge, he's in charge of the so-called. truths or at least denunciations or possible charges. Do we want to get into that story of fellow bridgemen? I wouldn't. I have no fear of it. Let it open whatever it wants, but I don't think this country and this people need it. Will the HDZ or the SDP suffer from it? It's possible that some of us can take it, it's possible. But the same HDZ and the same SDP had their own way of dealing with the regime we're talking about. One from the right position, one from the left position. Many were up in the Communist Union. The alliance of communists when Yugoslavia fell apart had over 2 million members. So where are these people? Where did these people come from? They were all communists. Well, they are a stick. The minorities were communist communists in the Alliance as well. They were Social Democrats, they were Liberals, they were HSS, they were future HDZs and HSPs, they were Democrats. It's the historical truth of the one who's interested in history. And that's why it could fall apart the way it fell apart. And that's why she had this democratic character unlike some other socialist regimes where it was different. So, if we're going to deal with this thing, then we have to deal with something different and we have to understand the respected colleagues from the Bridge, so the regime's down, you know when? When it started to talk about Jazovka, about Gol Island, about the Katovic forest. Who was talking? It's not you. The first dissidents on the left and right were speaking. From that time to this day, what have we done to deal with the past properly? Not enough, especially here. We're just about to do that. But that's what people did. They were destroying the regime with these truths because the regime was hiding them as the Kočevsky Horn was hiding, so they gathered both right and liberal and firsthand, and pro-prostitute, and pro-democratic and pro-liberal, and they said it was an injustice, it was inhumane, and it was a crime because the regime collapsed. And it was an anti-regime movement. This now, you know what this could be now if it was done well? A fellow coat of arms says in good faith, just as I used to speak in good faith to the people of the Bridge when you pass the laws, let them be prepared. Half the material or not enough good material should not come to the Parliament, so that we can agree on it together. There are other bodies for that. That's why my colleague Horvat says why such material came to the Parliament so quickly and why it was not in accordance with the government. Well, we're one government, I'm telling you because I'm part of the ruling coalition. Well, we're not the three governments in that one government. We can have three bets until it gets out. When it comes out, the harmonised law must go. The second is a public debate. As far as the bill itself is concerned, restrictions until the 1990s make no sense until that date. Why until that date and not later? Yeah? That doesn't make sense. There are reasons especially because if you want to do research by your colleagues, you are a historian, if one of your colleagues wants to doctor or master, or do some work in the period from 91 to 96, the Prime Minister or Government will give him approval. Most of the time they won't. It will have a reason (a), a reason (b), a reason (c) but it will not even allow it to explore. Why? Because it's enough Homeland War Documentation Center for us to know the truth about the Homeland War or are we going to let people investigate the whole thing independently? At least for them, there are certain reasons why some document doesn't come out. There are reasons why some documents cannot be unreachable. As regards the third reason, this law, as well as any other, must be consistent, as counterpart Grbin said, with the Constitution of a representative of the Government or Government, in his opinion with other laws. That's the point. If he is in conflict with the Information Act or the Privacy Policy, then it is necessary to bring him into line with it, then it is our primary job to deal with it and to discuss it here and not to discuss the great story of what this law will bring about which truths, which freedoms, or I don't know who will be more burdened, who will be less burdened in this regard. So we from the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party are in favour of making the archival structure available, but it is possible to do so in our opinion in the following way. First, to gather and that the state has control over the archival structure that I'm sure it doesn't have, there's no overall surveillance. Secondly, to enable the state to have its archival activity, to have space and to have qualified people who can carry out extended and enhanced activities of archive buildings that they do not now have. The Secretary of State could say from ninety and I don't know what year until today where all the archives are located and under all the conditions. Whose surveillance is he under? How is it archived? Who's watching her? And how can you get to him? And how much of these archival buildings have been electronically processed, which today is extremely important not only for preservation, but also for access. These are extremely important questions for us. And they're a presumption of availability. In the end, I'd like to say the following. Each of us has some reason why he would want history to look different than it was. Each of us has a reason to want a historical narrative that the state, and every state creates it to be closer to the truth of historical facts than it is. But there's no ideal narrative. But there must therefore be an assumption that beneath what is called a state narrative, an official narrative of official truths there is a possibility that there are professional, that good laws exist, that there are professional archival services and good research services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35067	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused a long line of replicas, so it will be the first to be the distinguished representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35068	Thank you, Your Honor. I listened to my colleague Milorad Popovec's presentation. Unfortunately, in our society, there is no desire to face the truth, and there is no such desire in neighbouring countries, and in fact it seems to me that many countries in the world are running away from the truth instead of facing it. Unfortunately, I'm going to repeat one rather ticklish thesis that tens of thousands of people were killed in Bleiburg, it's undeniable. Scientists agree on that. In 90% of cases, however, the victims were Croats, but this mass killing is called a massacre, not a genocide. In my view, the reason for this is that then the government that did this was a victorious, or anti-fascist, and thus the crime was reduced, or genocide is called a massacre. At the same time, however, about 700 people were killed in Vukovar after the city fell, and before it fell in the struggles of several thousand. However, in this case, the mass murder of people is called by the Croatian government genocide rather than a massacre as an event from Bleiburg. And why is that? Because in the case of Vukovar, the murderers were let's say Serbs, and the Bleiburg murderers were anti-fascists of all ethnicities, and this is one selective approach to history in which the goal of one is to free the blame because they are for political reasons, and others, for these daily political reasons, demonize and portray as the worst monsters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35069	Thank you. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35070	Dear Vice President, you're right first and foremost. The archivist needs to be fully arranged, and there's a lot of work to be done. And you asked how? We heard here that the German model proposed by the government, and I heard that the Czech model proposed MOST, and no one here said what was the basic difference between the Czech and German models, and I'm surprised. The Czech Archival Service is in charge of the Ministry of Interior of the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior, while in the German model, the archival service is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture. It's also very important. And speaking of Germany and the German model, then we can tell what Germany did after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the unification of the two Germanys. This famous archive of Stacie in which some of us were and were immediately fenced and all the construction was transferred to the Bundesan archive in accordance with the rules of the archivist profession. So politics didn't hurt, it didn't work, politics just helped, and it didn't let any parts of it move, destroy, burn. So politics played a positive role. And we are now in 2017, and we agree that after the independence of the Croatian state, the issue of archive construction should be resolved differently, and that national interests should be protected differently. There were a lot of riots, there were partial interests, political, ideological games, and also criminal acts of which some were still to say so in force. And you've opened the storage issue, and the article seems to me to be the 52nd law that says that the Republic of Croatia needs to secure a storage space. And we know that the Republic of Croatia does not provide and is stored in private, but that is another problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35071	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35072	I agree with you colleagues that it is very important that we have something as a convincing activity of social or state, that then we need to have a necessary institutional solution. The law is an institutional solution, but it is not enough. For some things you have to have the police, for some things you have to have money, for some things you have like an archive, you have to have objects, you have to have equipment, you have to have people and you have to have an adequate culture of using it. We don't even have a culture right now. You mention the Germans, so the Germans will leave in their archives and the most compromising materials that concern them. And in our culture, the situation is different. We'll try these compromising materials to watch how to try to jump the other one, even if it's 100 times against the state's interest, let alone the interest of what's called a peaceful state in the state. The continuation of the war with archival means is something that is inadmissible in a civilised state. And this debate and this bill of law have elements of that and point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35073	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35074	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's what Pupovac said, we agree here, so Croatian society traditionally finds it painful to find it but it is such a beautiful surface and also on the plan of facing the past, and also on the plan of maintaining documents from the history of the Croatian people and Croatia. We, and we should have done it much earlier, but be much more specific and say what documents they are. The documents regarding the State Security Service, that's what bothers people. What did your colleague from our club say, Professor? Irena, in Germany there is a federal document commissioner, East German secret police dealing exclusively. There is no such thing in Croatia, and therefore it is very important that we support the efforts of the Croatian Government and also this Assembly where there is consensus that we must approach it, but to be very detailed, structured. Why would we do that? Because we have to, not to blame people for something, that they were party members, but those responsible for the crimes, who made decisions about the murders and to condemn those who committed the murders. That's the goal of dealing with the past, at least that's my view. And finally, look, there is a platform for European memory and conscience, there are 55 public and private institutions from 19 countries, all the countries of the European Union from the East and Central Europe represented except Croatia. There is no organisation from Croatia that is represented, and we need to change that to become a society that is quality and not superficial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35075	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Kovac, I think someone already mentioned it today, and I believe that, and I'm motivated by what you're saying. So someone mentioned a succession, a good part of the archive building that concerns Croatia, Croatian political life, state institutions in Croatia, deployed in countries that are also the followers of the state that we are. We need to find ways in which we want to complete the archival historical structure, we need to find ways to enter into negotiations and about it. And as for dealing with the past, my colleague reminded me that here in these assembly benches in the early '90s there were people who were members of the most different, not just political options, but also historical creations. People who served in different regimes. There's a lot of mention of a colleague of Racan's, the deceased. But let's not forget that there was a colleague, Vinko Nikolic, too. And there was a way of communicating between people as a premise of stopping a conflict in society, not a debate, but a conflict and division. And that fact should not be lost from sight when it comes to lustration and when some mention any Tudjman, any Racans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35077	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35078	I was impressed by a sentence from my knowledge that most people in the Union of Communists were not communists. They're all people who thought with their heads back then not just intellectuals. Everyone who thought rationally knew that there were at least communists in the Union. Anyway, I'll go further. After World War II, few communists remained. Most of the communists disappeared in the war, and of those who didn't disappear, most of them were silenced on the naked island. So how many communists could remain in the Communist Union? The Union of Communists was a government. It was a government that some liked, and many others did not like. I'd just like to point out one thing, and that's what you also reminded my colleague Pupovac, that minorities were killed by that authority equally and in some minorities and more than Croats and more than the majority people. I want to underline it for one very simple reason. This is why even today minorities are co-responsible in the behaviour of how much power and at least parliamentary in this House and I say it very directly, I say this because some officials today are being sent a message that national minorities should actually be without the burden of deciding in Croatia. I think it's just their suffering saying the opposite without talking about their contribution from the '90s to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35079	Thank you. Next replica. Answer. Excuse me. The esteemed Pupovec representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And it's not hard for you to agree with your colleague, Radin, when you look at any absolutes, there are relative figures regarding the percentage of members of the national minorities in the area where our country has been organised today for the past 25, 26 years and previous historical reasons. So, the period from 914 I mentioned, until the end of this century were huge differences and that's what I meant when I said I wish history had looked different and I wish the narrative about history looked different. But I know what's real and what's not. But some facts in history must be respected. And among other things, the representatives of the national minorities are here part of this parliament to be present, to make sure that they hear and that they participate. Sadly, some colleagues do not have that consciousness, as they do not know who listens to them and listens to them at all. But that's the way it is. We're not the exception in that regard. But I'd like to say something in the end. As painful as history has been for us all and members of the majority people, and minority peoples in Croatia, and history in World War II, and the history of those who stayed away from the winning army at the end of World War II who were not only Croats from Croatia, and especially from the former Yugoslavia, they were not only Serbs, nor were they just members of the Ustasha authorities for various reasons to understand each other and to suffer in injustice. But I would like to say that it is our duty at this point in time when we are losing our population to stop this kind of infertile debate and to focus on fearing the dangers of further demographic losses.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35081	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35082	Thank you very much. Mr. Pupovac, you've been implicating the Bridge all along. All of us here in the council benches, and mostly us in the Bridge that we have some kind of desire to change history. Not history, but the truth should be known, when the truth is being true because so far, you've been in parliament for a long time, so that the archive structure would certainly not have talked about this. Opening an archival building with all proposals of distinguished colleagues and representatives and clubs that support me will come up with a solution, which is true. The truth is that it's being given to people like Professor Bunjac here to investigate and to see who was the criminal and who was the victim. We owe it to the victims. There's no nationality here. There's no ideology and there's no nation. But the fact is that from 45 to 90 years of age, and then all crimes need to be investigated and punished, and most of all to repay the victims, because families of certain victims, all victims are looking for at least to know where their grave is. And there must be a lot of these issues in these archives. And the legal framework needs to be arranged for it to be opened to be seen. We're not talking about hundreds, millions of thousands of people who were members of the Communist Party, we're talking about people who committed or responsible for the crime. Well, you know, Bleiburg 500 grand, Goli Island, that's where the people who were in the Partisan movement died. There were no standards, there was a crime to be investigated, and of course this is one big step, and all together we should arrange for the archival structure to be made available to the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35083	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35084	Two things, first of all, regarding the need to make archival structure available, we agree here, we only differ on how to achieve this, how to get all the archival structure that is under the control of institutions and those which are not under the control of institutions to be available to those who need it in a way that will not endanger other legal provisions or regulations that are, the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That's the first one. Secondly, you're telling the truth about the archives. Archival structure is an assumption of coming to the truth as well as any other possible document, as well as any other possible fact. If we take a fragment for granted as a historical truth or as a truth about a man or his period of life, very dangerous. We know that from today, we know from communist times how it was done, human weaknesses. People had their weaknesses and everyone had them, but they were abused. That's why people are being recruited, they're being co-workers. How many of these were among the people in the church, how many of them were among the people in public affairs in the profession, the university or each other, where were they being blackmailed? What are we gonna do with these people? Therefore, we are for this, but in a way that will not be, that will limit abuse and that will not deepen unnecessary conflicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35085	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Pupovac, here I would refer to that part of your discussion in which you spoke of history as a discipline as part of who needs discipline, or discipline that needs to be approached with respect. Neither am I a historian, but I believe that you will agree with me when I say that history is written by the winners. And when I say that after every victory, any winning team that almost always, and rarely at the last minute, comes from different sides, different miles, from different perspectives, there are different ideologies, but they all bow to the winning side for a variety of reasons. And that's exactly what I think about the problem of opening archives and, of course, this law as a basis for opening archives should certainly be approached primarily in a stable way, and then with due respect above all for victims of totalitarian regimes, and then to their families and all those behind them who remain and will remain alive I think of our children, our grandchildren and our descendants. And that's why I think that right in the name of a clean conscience, we all need a consensus. At the end of the day and colleagues from the Bridge with a proposal for this law in the opening statement call for consensus, and I believe that this debate is going to the administration somehow in this direction and I agree that the problem needs to be solved as soon as possible. But very important fictional, articulated and professional. And all of these shortcomings that we have pointed out in the proposal of this law should be answered professionally and should be answered in a way that we give ourselves enough time, not in a way that we solve things over our knees, we should give the Government time and the Ministry of Culture to make a good proposal based on this whole debate instead of stepping into the trap of collecting cheap pre-election political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35087	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35088	First of all, I agree with you that not all those who have changed in the position of ruling regimes have left the same historical traces and the same historical consequences, we all know that. Some regimes were non-democratic, some as well as most regimes served in some situations by force, some being totalitarian and using permanent force. And some had the intention of extermining those who were political or other opponents. So there's a lot of difference, and we who know something about history know that we can't get into a pillar of equalization of everything, that is. totalitating history. Because it's totalitarian, and history must be freed from it. And that's what today's debate has shown to a good extent. As for fixing this text, of course you heard a series of arguments about how this proposal that came from your fellow bridge could be corrected. The good part went in favour of what the government actually said and one part went even in the direction of expanding what should go, and no matter how much this debate took time it would actually allow the Ministry of Culture which finalises its text and colleagues from the Bridge to actually eventually come up with a proposal for a text of law that would be agreed on and about which there will be no difference in the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35089	Thank you. And another replica, the distinguished representative of Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35090	Dear fellow Pupovac, here is the meaning of the Bridge colleagues who sit here shorter than you and I understand that in a good initiative that I really support they have brought before us a bill that has a lot of inadequacy in the first reading. You also commented on them and the government's representative because not all data can be open to everyone, and yesterday I just said in my debate that we can't turn either our assembly or the media into courtrooms and that's what happens in too much openness. However, you and Mr. Stazic spoke about this date that Most proposed and you said that there should be no restrictions at all or a period of the ban on giving of data, so they here said 22.12.1990. What I notice is that every serious state that holds on to itself has one period of prohibition that it must go 20, 50, or as many years as it is estimated to be data, to pass one period so as not to manipulate and work against the interests of a particular country so that foreign services do not enter and manipulate that data. And since there are victims of the communist regime in my family, I don't like it when it comes to these topics, and I'm not just pointing this to you, we're manipulating it. So there are certain reasons why we have a ban period. I also tell my colleagues from the Bridge, there are reasons why all the data means they must not be available to everyone about the victim and who was persecuting him. So I'm asking that we act like a serious state and not manipulate the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35091	The answer to the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35092	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that I am quite in agreement with you that there can be no unlimited period for the availability of data. So, what was yesterday in this House or what was at the intelligence agency to make it available tomorrow to someone who would be an investigator, or a citizen who had interests in looking at it. There are therefore competent institutions that control the work of these bodies, and then there is a certain historical period after which these documents can then be determined as available. That's what we know. But why is this particular date listed, and this year it requires an explanation. For what? And another thing I'd like to say. It's not just a matter of time for national security. And the period before December 90th there are some people who were actors from 91 to 96 and are still actors in state structures whose data and archival structure are certainly this state of peace to bear in mind. Neither party nor party, but state, and therefore some of us were more sensitive regardless of ideological, and especially ethnicity when it came to some individuals who were living actors. The structure of the government is very sensitive and important both until the 90th and after 90th. Some of them weren't. Some of them went into the campaign. We, not ethnically, but the political minority, thought that the state must always have regard for itself and that story of the state's continuity therefore makes sense, not just from a legal point of view, but from a constitutional and political aspect.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35093	Thank you. The next one is the HDS representative of the HDS HDSSB in the name of which the distinguished representative Goran Dodig will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35094	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that we overestimate a little of what we're doing, judging by the number of people and the public's interest in what we're talking about today, by how many of us are in the Parliament. At the very beginning, I have to say that I've changed the concept of how I'm going to speak for a simple reason because it's been said a lot. So now I'm going to try to expose my club's position in a short time. In this particular case, there is a public interest, but not only of the public interest, but also of the truth. In this interest, this interest is the goal set by the Law Club of Representatives of the Mosto to open state archives in a way that I understand well how Mr Kovac formulated the law. We are most interested here in the work of secret services, because secret services were those that determined the fate of many families, many individuals, children, going abroad, etc., etc. So, the objective of the Bridge, their intention is perfectly fine for me and I have no objection to their desire to be true and... come to the truth through that goal. Another important factor is the implementation of all procedures on how to achieve that goal. I am, and it is a law that wants to be passed and how that law can be realized. And the third important fact that I think here is extremely important is the consequence that this law is supposed to be excellently made. How can we feel the consequences, and what can we expect the consequences? If we add to this this formal legal aspect that this law must comply with the Constitution and comply with other laws that apply then it is, in fact, the conclusion when we have all three objectives in mind that it is a very subtle, very professionally demanding and very serious law. And let's start with this fact that we want the truth. The historical truth we must say is that the truth that is based on, which, based on certain writings, is determined, is that you want the oral surrender of what your colleague Bunjac was talking about. But both, and certain documents, of course, and everything historians use, and then we come up with a situation that all of this, all of this truth can be formally and methodologically well processed without actually showing the real truth. Yes and because in all this truth and how it arises is the subjective relationship of the one who records these facts on what is happening. If all of this is right, then there remains another subjective experience often, and also the most objective researcher, which is the interpretation of that truth. Interpretation is often quite significant. All of this in the context of a newer Croatian history, when I say more recent Croatian history, then, here, let's start from the beginning of the 20th century and we'll see all the turbulence of that history. All the troubles this people have faced. On the one hand, there is a need for truth and on the other hand, if we think carefully about what is happening here today we see both fear and greater caution of people who have lived through a certain period of this Croatian history, not since the '90s on here but also from the 50s to here. That fear isn't random. The question now arises as to how in the 1990s, with all our historical woes, Croatia was still through war, through the birth pains that were terrible, founded as a state. It is based only on one fact that was important, which is that Croatian society does not divide within itself. And if there is a size of political thought then it was the political thought of President Tudjman to avoid sharing. And he managed to do it and he left us the state to edit it as we please. On the one hand, his colleague Mrsic said that when we do not know what is going to happen with the present, we are going back in history, it is not true because the present was not created as a coincidence, it was created as a result of certain historical events and that for Croatia it is more important what happened since the 1990s than before. How about who. Those who have accepted the way of life with which everything can be bought for them, yes, but people who have experienced severe traumas both individually and collectively, are also extremely important to them. The second statement that bothered me was that my colleagues of the Bunjca state had ceased to exist but I am giving it, and there is no reason not to publish it, I say that they did not stop the problems inherited from the old state. There are no missing people living in that country. That part, that part of the people who continued to live, was part of the creation of this country. It's true that there were people here who worked in secret services, in this House they were sitting, publicly saying that they were working and they were apologizing for what they were doing, that they were apologizing for having tied political opponents to the radiators, but at that point they were welcome, so they were interpreted, and that's the fact, and we were all satisfied with that. And that is why I have often said that the present or at least the part of the present relating to the creation of the Croatian state and the Homeland War should be taken as the basis on which we will build up Croatia's state. We've now entered a project that is completely understandable to me, and I'd like to know which body has decided and I know it's not in court that I'm going to be in jail. I'd like to know the names of people, not the names, I know who told me but who ordered me to be expelled twice, expelled from Zagreb. I'd like to know who ordered me to have no civil rights and no passports, but when my curiosity and my trauma from that time or the fact that my child should not have been read to me through the school announcement as an excellent student, who ordered that school principal not to read that last name, what he would like to know is at the level of my curiosity right now. But the fear of the possible consequences of an unsettled law and a non-compliant law is greater than my curiosity, greater. And it seems to me that we have to take care of it, which will happen to the passing of that law. To be clear, I want to pass that law, I will support it, but I beg you to do it right. What I'm hearing, I'm not sure that's the case. So, comrade Grmoy, there is no doubt that I want that law passed because it is the collective responsibility of this Parliament. I'm interested in bringing it, but I'm also asking for absolute seriousness in applying this problem. How do you distinguish from these documents, from this archival building so that the victim doesn't become a victim again, how do you not stegmatize the family, descendants? I know people who were Croatian defenders, participated in this Homeland War, and their parents are said to have been members of the secret service. How these people's grandchildren protect and tell them they can't pay for the sins of their grandfathers. So we have won this war, let's not let ourselves be lost in peace. Let's not let ourselves lose our unity and respect for each other. For me, anyone who accepts the Croatian state right now and accepts the fact that he is a resident of this country, is welcome to me and I don't want this to turn into any kind of conflict, I don't want to share society again. I want us to continue there because it is time that we have to do this to start building, and we have lost that dimension where the politics of the first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman ceased, with the fact that we carefully make the law and get there. So I will support the idea, absolutely to pass this law, but to make it in one way subtle and sensitive about how appropriate it is for the society in which we live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35095	Thank you. And your exposure caused a whole series of replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35096	Mr. Dodig, it is my sincerest wish for Croatian society to face the truth and face its history. So I'd like to ask you, i.e. Please answer if you have the courage to say which party is most grateful that the crime or mass murder in Bleiburg is not called genocide but a massacre, although it was about killing very broad proportions. And I'm also curious, speaking of archives, if you know the same thing. if you have the courage to say, which party was behind the political murders of members of the Hos in the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35097	The answer to the esteemed representative, Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35098	You see, the first difference between us is that my colleague Pernar is that I'm experiencing one individual murder as a mass murder. It's not a decision-making number for me. Which party is the most responsible, I can't say it, not if I didn't know without a problem I'd say it if I knew. If you knew who was responsible for killing my friend Ante Paradjik, you'd be sure to say that. But I can't say based on just newspaper articles, indications or my hunch. I don't know that. Massacre or genocide for me has no major difference, there are differences in the formal legal sense in the consequences etc. What's called a massacre in Bleiburg, and this genocide, I don't think it matters right now. The important thing is that we experienced it, that it caused collective trauma in one sense or another, and that it would be good to know who did it. But in a way that is more important to me than the consequences that at this point can cause, it's really true. And I'll tell you one more thing. To a small child, and we are a small child when it comes to the state, it is a big question of what we can say at which point and how much it is able to understand this child, the big question is, although the child has a great curiosity to know everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35099	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35100	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Dodig, you are one of the examples of personal examples of the need to enlighten the archival structure of some time. But you've brought out a certain fear. And now that fear is justified. However, the law to be good asked what the law should be. He has to make a clear distinction between personal data and something else. Personal information is not whether anyone was in some position, for example, in the Department of People's Defence, at the Ministry of Secret Service Associates. It's not personal data. We need that information, and we want to give it to the public. Personal information that we do not need and is not needed by the public and is not in the public interest is that. It's private medical records, it's sexual orientation, it's religion. They're even school grades from elementary and high school that you can't get without permission. So let's make a distinction in the law which is personal data and which is not. Once we've made that clear distinction, and I believe we will, then there won't be this fear. Also under the existing law, it is not logical for me that the data of all of us in HZZO Croatian Health Insurance Institute has data on us as an insurance company. That data is now stored in a private warehouse. I'm sorry, but it's at least debatable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35101	The answer of Honorable Representative Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35102	I totally understand. I think we live in a time when there's no more personal data, when you buy something with a credit card at the mall you know everything about you, you know, and everywhere you know. When you carry this phone, you know not only your data, but also your proclivities. I know it's a schizophrenic situation, but I was talking about something else here. The personal data of a person who has been in a particular decision-making function should, if we decide to do so, but then let us have our own responsibility and conscience as to why we did so. But I know a concrete example if you want one, you can abuse it. At the time, he was president of the Executive Council of the 1990s in Split, whose father was a widower, which would be said. The executive council president was so willing to sacrifice for Croatia as few. Now his kids are gonna have family trauma because of Grandpa. Is that a good thing? That's what you're asking, nothing else. Here's Blaženko Boban with his head and knows who it's about. That's the question. If we decide to go into that burden of our conscience, let's go, I'll be for it. But I want to pass a law that will try as much to protect people who have nothing to do with it, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35103	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Reverend Dodig, I understand your sacrifice and your frustration, and no one can make it up to you, nor can he compensate you for this law. Your discussion was personal, but what I would point out is that this law is a law now passed because of local elections, and on the other hand, by looking at a generation of the 1990s born to that generation, it doesn't matter what happened since '45. '90s. They care what happens now. And what's not good is that we're going back to the past to look into the future then, because the law itself will probably bring a lot of doubt and the question is whether it will ever be brought down, given that there will be a dispute in HDZ itself, and I can also see between HDZ and the Most. And what's the basic question of who's going to pass the law at all. Again, as far as the SDP is concerned, we support any version of the law that comes here to the Parliament. The crash won't be in the SDP, the fracture will be in the HDZ and can be seen from the discussions we have today. But surely this is not a law that is the law that matters to the citizens of Croatia at the moment. It's important for them to have good jobs, to have a higher salary, to have security, to have national security. You see what's going on around Croatia, and this law and what's happened before doesn't matter at all. It is for citizens, all citizens, most citizens can confirm and yet I must say that we have nothing against opening both archives and 2000. There's nothing to hide. All that can be opened and the public has insight. Privatisation is a dark spot in Croatia And you should open up those archives and see what's going on. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35105	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35106	Dear Mrsic, it is not true that only the generation that was born in the 1990s is important, that this generation does not matter. There's something called transgenerational memory. So children and grandchildren can be frustrated because of what happened to their grandfathers. And that's why true truth is one way to get rid of these frustrations. I just want it to be brought, to do everything to make that real truth come true, to bring it out into the open. And that's why I support this law with all the fear that he can, in one well-imagined law, not orderly. That's why I'd like to make this law as clear as possible, to take care of all these facts, and since we've all said we're up for it, I don't see any reason to do it. We're not all afraid of the declaration, so let's get it right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35107	My colleague Mrsic has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, listening to what has injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35108	The Rules of Procedure of Article 44 have been injured. "The working bodies of the Parliament where it is said very clearly that the working body of the Assembly discusses the reports and, after the debate has been held, takes a position or determines the proposal for acts and reports it." At this point, we have received two completely in the conclusions of the different views of the Committee on Education and Science. ... I've been on it and it's not a correction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He read Mr. Oprah very clearly what was before. This correction is clearly now a deal with the Most. It was therefore very clear that all the comments and proposals made in the debate, and in particular the comments and proposals made in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will be submitted to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. And now, in that first all remarks and proposals presented in the debate, and in particular the comments and proposals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's opinion, the proposal will be submitted to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35109	.../Intruder Reiner: What's the difference?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35110	The difference is that when we have two documents that we haven't voted for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35111	.... /Intruder Reiner: What you've read now is the same thing./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35112	So we have two documents, this correction doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35113	And which one? You read the same sentence. You may have been mistaken, but you have read the same sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35114	Yes, but it's quite certain that the fact that we now have two documents at once. Let Mr. Secretary tell me why we have two documents if we adopt one and now we have a correction? ... And I know, first of all, not this last one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We adopted this first, not this last, not the correction. ... /A speaker away from the microphone./... before the Assembly session. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35115	Thank you. So the same thing, so I'm the same when my colleague read it. ... Here's my colleague, Bacic, who asked for a correction. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Now what's the correction again or what's this about?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35116	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35117	Well, I told you three times to read the same sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35118	All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. That's what we adopted. This amendment has not now been adopted by the Government, so I demand a board meeting to re-verify what we have adopted because we have not adopted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35119	Here you go, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. How much information do I have... in accordance with the phonogram and the proposal for a conclusion read by the chairman of the board. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Therefore, when he looked at the detailed report of the Committee and its conclusions, he found that this section concerning the opinions and suggestions of the Government had been released and requested that, in the secretariat of the Committee, it be determined exactly how he had read the conclusion and this conclusion was adopted and transmitted in this correction. I agree if colleague Mrsic asks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35121	Okay, I'm asking professional services to check the phonogram and the phonogram is all clear why we voted, and why we didn't vote or the board voted not now. Here you are, first of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35122	Thank you, Vice President. I know it's Friday afternoon, if it were too late, if the concentration was dropping, I'd just like to know what shape it is and what Mr. Bacic called in?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35123	... as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, same as you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35124	Now you see, okay, which is why Mr. Bacic didn't say which article of the Rules of Procedure was injured for what he was showing up for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35125	So did I just ask you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35126	What am I not talking to you? I'm talking to the chairman here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35127	Well, that's what I want to ask, why aren't they equal criteria? [[I didn't ask you either.]] I didn't even ask my colleague Mrsic because I get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35128	Yes, it is, my colleague Mrsic said article 40, and he listed it all, and it is you vice president who always invites us what article you interpret.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35129	Well, now I'm not. I didn't ask you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35130	Well, you didn't. Well, it's best you still called me after a colleague named Bacic who didn't say anything. I didn't even know he reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because he waved his hand. Maybe he's the bottom line interpreter who became the board, so let me ask you that, that's what I was curious about. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35131	Please, nice. I think that is simply what the committee needs to clarify, i.e. a very clear view of the committee's stenogram and to see how the proposal for a conclusion reads, and this proposal is valid. So, for this proposal, we voted in favour of the conclusion. And we voted unanimously as much as I remember on that committee, right? ... And I also don't know exactly the suggestion of the conclusion, you probably don't know it either, 'let's look at the stenogram there's a secretary of the board, the secretary of the board can look at the stenogram and I don't think there's any need to make problems about it at all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, there's no replica, but say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35132	But there's no replicas, so it's completely inappropriate for us to get two reports on the Parliament, which once says correction, and neither of us board members, and there you are, Mr. Vice President, who was with me on the board if Mr. Bacic hadn't said that to me, they wouldn't know. I remember exactly what we were talking about, what we talked about and what we came up with. This is either the Clamper of the President of the Committee or the Professional Service, but it wasn't, so our benches weren't supposed to have this kind of paper. Because then that leads us to begin to suspect that possible manipulations are possible, we can do this, we can do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35133	.../Intruder President: So we'll clear it up./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35134	To be clear, given the president, since this is sensitive matter and yes, we have a vote on Monday, and I suggest that the Education Committee meet shortly before Wednesday's session, before the vote where exactly we will verify what conclusion we adopted. So the phonogram of the session is yes, but I didn't hear it. What, that trust after this I don't think I can give myself. So I demand that the board meet again to verify the conclusion so that it may be whoever it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35135	Well, that, I'm neither president, nor vice president of the board, so I can't call the board, I can pass on your wish, and that would be best, so I agree, based on the phonogram you'll see. The discussion of this again on the board seems too high, after this exhaustive debate on everything but verification certainly, I agree, absolutely. All right, let's get back to this wheel now. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35136	Dear colleague Dodig, I'm a little surprised by your presentation, I must admit, so you were part of the Karamark coalition that spoke, so the HDZ that spoke about the need to carry out the lustration, and now that we're practically doing something that is, it's not lustration, but it's opening the archives. So you're talking about it being some sort of burden on our conscience. I don't feel any burden on my conscience that I want to get to this. It's done almost every one, so every post-Communist state except the Republic of Croatia and I don't see why now, it seems to me to be playing on people who were victims of that system that they would be affected by this. I think the victims want to know the truth about what's been going on. This bill of law is very high-quality, and now this is some kind of principle story that there's a flaw. I haven't heard a single flaw besides that we haven't made an impact assessment, it's practically not, we don't even have to do it, so the law is very high-quality, the law is consistent with all European directives, the law means similar to the Czech law and what I will later and in the final debate, so this is very interesting that all here who have talked about some problems regarding personal data some of the checks that these countries have opened up their archives and suffered damage due to lost disputes in international courts. On the contrary to the views of the Government and what is presented here, individuals pointed out successfully to European courts the fact that data from the archives were not available to them so that they could defend themselves against charges of being co-workers and secret police informants. So it's exactly the opposite. So states have lost such disputes precisely because of the closure of their archives and not their openness. So that's a fact. So this law is well-prepared, five months has been prepared, and it's not even flat-rate, as a colleague of Pupovac says he's been paused. So it's not even a flat-rate thing, and all the debates they've been saying are actually cobwebs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35137	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35138	Don't say what I didn't say to my colleague, I concluded that I would support that law and there's no reason not to support it. But I have expressed my concern that not certain people who have nothing to do with this, these are generations that have now come young people like you who can feel certain consequences if no elements are incorporated into the law that could possibly prevent it. And as far as the law goes, I'm telling you right now in front of everyone I'm gonna back it up, there's no doubt about it. If anyone's interested in that law being passed, I'm interested. I'd love to know who that is, but don't put what I didn't say in my mouth. ... But weird doesn't mean you didn't understand me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35139	The last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35140	I thank Mr. Chairman, I have listened carefully to the presentation of my colleagues, Dodig, and it is indeed necessary to honor him as well as the victims of the communist system in Croatia. What is very important and what is also a colleague, Dodig, stressed that it must not interfere, must not interfere with the face of communism in Croatia with the Homeland War. And it's a good thing they didn't fall into that trap. That's why this date, it makes sense on December 22nd, '90, when we adopted the Christmas Constitution. I had my first free elections, democratic elections in the spring of the '90s. And now look, if there is any period in Croatian history, one period in Croatian history, one period in Croatian history which is really enlightened, enlightened both in Croatia and outside Croatia because the documents ended outside the Republic of Croatia, in the media in the Republic of Croatia, then it is the period of Homeland War. I don't know if there's anywhere else in the world that in such a way one period is consensual in this way enlightened and enlightened. Now that we're asked to shed light on the development of communism, then we're trying to relativize it so that it interferes with the Homeland War. And in the end, there is in the Constitution the same provision not to obsess over crimes of privatisation and conversion. Therefore, if anyone has any information that someone has committed some kind of crime during the Homeland War, let them report to the State's Attorney's Office, but do not mix Communism and the Homeland War. We know everything about the Homeland War. You even published a defense register, so the whole world knows who was in which unit. It was a shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35141	No answer? Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the honourable representative Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35142	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, there is no dispute about all of us supporting these amendments and supplementing the law on archival construction because of what is the goal of this need, an interest in determining the truth. And so that's what we need to come from, because the basic intensity is what's good about removing various restrictions, ministers, commissions, chief secretaries to access an archival structure that is of interest to us in this period of the 1990s. In addition, I think it should be pointed out, however, that the objective of this is actually not certain whether it is said that the availability of this building is being made available to the public, to the professional public, to the scientific public, in order for the round of discussion on this history to spread from political circles to a simple wide public with a single note, I think that is what my colleague Dodig warned to a greater extent than Mr Pupovac. It's a mistake to believe when the archives open that we'll find the truth there. We'll find data there, documents that are then according to judgments so that we can come to certain conclusions. However, just to achieve this goal, I think that the intensity that the applicant is presenting, I think it is possible to give one of three types of objections to these proposed provisions or amendments to this law. The first category of these remarks is insufficient consistency in the request itself. The second category of possible objections is too much benevolence towards the KPJ and the KKJ and too little sensitivity to the victims. And there is a third type of observation of possible insufficiently real and serious demand to make these proposals come true. Allow me a few words about everyone here. In this preamble, i.e. the justification of this request, the Government is not required to step up its activity on the return of archives from Belgrade or from federal institutions to which Croatia is entitled under the contract signed on succession, meaning the service of state institutions, SID, JNA etc. which are relevant for this procedure. There is no such thing in this request, and the task is therefore not only of the government but of the special minister of justice and of the minister of the interior. On the other hand, a report is required on which, within six months, the structure will be submitted but no data on the incompleteness of the building is required. And we know that I'm going to give you a concrete example of what's directly related to this, a few years ago I asked the Government of Zoran Milanovic for a report where the documentation, the archival structure of the General Defence and Social Protection Council and the General People's Defence and Social Protection Committee. The committee was a state body, the council was a party body, a party body headed by the party's president at the time, or always was. The answer was that this archive was handed over to the military archives. I just checked in there, that's not true. Therefore, there are smudges or ignorances or alterations of such data that are simply not accurate and therefore it is necessary to make and investigate an investigation, i.e. a report on where individual segments of these buildings are not committed, or why they are not committed. On the other hand, what I also consider to be a lack of this requirement, inconsistency is simply not required to condemn the abuse of the archives of the first Croatian president, the handing over of these documents to The Hague from the archives of intelligence services, HVOs, etc. which is simply an inversion of what would require respect for legality and preservation. Another category of what we could say, what I said about volunteering to the owners of the party state, and too little sensitivity to the victim. This is where they break up the spear on one binary division, yes or no data on the victims. Here we saw two, three examples where it's obvious that the data on the victim was killed, liquidated, etc. As a consequence of this regime, a clear thing to do is to publish it, but personal data, family data that has no direct connection to this, should therefore be put on a certain hunch that it should or should seek the consent of the person whose document is published by that name, or to seek something that is reflected in a number of countries that you have censored these data, so those names are left out, I'm talking about the victim. What's left out, which is a lack in my opinion, which is that the focus should be on officials, on associates, on employees, on associates and on employers. It is too little to stress that this whole law would get the right dimension given the intensity and what... On the other hand, what you're saying, I don't think that demands and goals are really set simply for a few reasons. First, they do not need any financial resources. Now we can compete here whether the Croatian Archives does not have enough space for an existing structure that cannot be received, whether it is 30 or 60km... but it is a fact that accommodation, equipment and takeover and construction requires very much financial resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, is that what the archive claims to be 70 million or more, but it's one limiting factor that can then block this whole idea and make it another charge that it's guilty of something. Furthermore, what is required to be all built up to that time, all state institutions etc. before, I think it's kind of unserious. Not because that structure when it doesn't have to be handed over within a certain time period, but we have different building categories. Simply in this termology today, I don't know what it was like, when it's spoken from the health system, the education system, the catastras, the garnery, etc. all of this is handed over within six months, it just doesn't make much sense because one part of these funds needs these institutions to function. On the other hand, there is no structure that has, by definition, classified documents and data, therefore after 30 years and is thus open and available. I think it would be much more effective to define that these are the construction of a party or alliance of communists before the Communist party, that it is a repressive apparatus, intelligence services, military, etc. a certain number of these institutions that must be surrendered and made available, so that this requirement becomes realistic. On the other hand, if we really want to do this openly to all the public, then this requirement should be articulated in a way that goes after digitization and construction and that these structures are then these digital records are available to everyone without restrictions, all of this being downloaded. And that's something that again and if there were, if there were no obstacles, it would require a very large amount of resources and time to be done. Therefore, I would go with such ambitions even if they were in this first stage only indicated. However, if we start with such a single logic then it is evident that this requirement is simply this once partial change of archives and access to archival structure actually opens up a far more complex problem, that today, if we want to objectively talk about the archive and archive structure, if this situation with the present state is extended for another 10, 20 or I don't know how many years, then we will be faced with, or not us, but those in the 22nd century will be faced with the situation that will have more information on the 20th century while there has been a paper society, paper documents than this beginning of the 21st standing when most countries have switched to digitalisation or digital communication, and we still have no law to deal with digital records, how to archive it, how to store it for future generations. Because while part of the state administration has its servers and stores it on its servers alone from our own experience, you know that we're communicating on the Internet of this network or that it's not stored anywhere, so we're going to get back to the situation that for the next few dozen years someone who has access to that stored data on Google or somewhere else will have more or more credible or sometimes more accurate data than we have ourselves. In other words, I do not explain this concept, but I expect the Government to install it in this full request in the archives, that the government defines the server farm, means servers, owned by the Croatian state of data bases, Croatian databases, which according to the law of a particular state institution must run and which will then allow the storage of all these transactions so that we have this digital record of everything that happens over the year or years ahead. In that sense, we support the intensities of this law but these, in order to really achieve what is wanted here, should then be made much more effort with much more precise provisions on these issues that I have spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35143	Thank you very much. The number of replicas still decreases. We only have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35144	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, he told his colleague Tudjman there was a problem with the money. Namely, people will seek access to the archive, the archive will be opened, and there will have to be someone working in that archive, it will be a huge amount of data and everyone will be looking for something that only interests him. And of course you'll have to make sure that something from the archives doesn't disappear, etc. I propose one, perhaps a progressive solution for most of the people standing here in the House, or sitting, and for me is one of the most common, most banal, simplest solutions, which is that this archive is digitized, that it is as simple as land books to simply scan and as those Vicki Links documents to be available on the Internet and thus all the problems related to the subsequent use of these data could be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35145	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35146	Comrade Pernar, you obviously either disobeyed or told your story regardless of what others were saying. First of all, the cost of the cost, you, yes, can't digitize anything without taking over. In order for this to be taken over, space must be secured, and equipment must be provided. That's one thing. The second thing, precisely in this requirement that the entire business of the Croatian government is digitised by the state administration and what I was saying is that this whole farm becomes the archive of Croatia and it is not, I will not say in which part, but it can be capitalized through the collection of these services that will then be provided. Therefore, in that sense, I think that this amendment, or new law on archives, should be made so that we finally face the 21st century and start to function in a modern, modern way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35147	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35148	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have listened carefully to the presentation of my colleagues, Tudjman, and I am glad that he mentioned something he mentioned before, which is that we have a lot of documents in the capital of the former federal state, meaning in Belgrade, neighbouring Serbia and these documents, we have the right and basis of the succession, which is true but also based on the negotiations that Serbia is conducting with the European Union, there is one chapter that deals with culture, education, science. So it is important that we finally get these documents, so that in Croatia we can lead this process of dealing with the past in one quality way and finally, while we are at it, it would be one, a good platform and normalisation of relations, one project of the future where we could find colleagues from Serbia and we together in Serbia and we in Croatia face the past on a topic of documentation that exists largely in neighbouring Serbia, in the capital of the former Yugoslav Federation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35149	The answer to the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35150	Thank you. A colleague Kovac, the problem with this archive in Belgrade, is important in that some decisions are particularly made in the repressive system from central means in Belgrade and this transmission through this council on general public defence, etc. It was, in some ways, of secondary importance or had no such power and role as it had. So that's one, and if we open our archives without seeing these archives, there won't be a complete picture. In my opinion, that's one dimension of the problem. The second thing you said that we are dealing with the past together, I doubt it will be of any use because I think, regardless of these situations, the European Union and France and Germany have not yet agreed on certain interpretations, regardless of respect for certain protocols and civilised behaviours, etc.. So the question of certain historical interpretations will always be colored with interests, national interests of historical subjects.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35151	If I've seen correctly, you're the one who's done the damage to my colleague Kovac's Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35152	Well-intentioned, violation of Article 238, means no common encounter with the past than I have said separate processes. No common encounter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35153	It's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but good. The individual debate will now be held by distinguished representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35154	Thank you, Your Honor. Although in our Parliament we often talk about, i.e. Before we talked about the topics from the past we from the Living Wall managed to push some of that topic aside. But that's what came on the agenda, the theme with the archives. And I'm surprised that I'm the only representative in the Croatian Parliament who actually signed up here for an individual debate, not on behalf of the club. So they were saying how much I only noticed clubs. And I'd like to say one thing that the public doesn't pay attention to and that's next. Although certain individuals are often blamed for crimes, it means certain systems, etc. These crimes could not have been committed if the people who committed them had thought for themselves. So thinking with your head is what keeps people from doing evil. In fact, most people wouldn't push people into a gas chamber, most of them if you asked them. However, when a superior tells them that experiments from America have shown that 65% of people are willing to do so. So I'd like to read you a few interesting thoughts on the subject. Says Stanley Milgram 1974. The social psychology of this century reveals a great lesson. Often, it is not a matter of the kind of man, meaning whether he is good or bad, but rather a situation where he is in a situation that determines his behavior. Milgram directed his psychological study to provide an answer to the question whether Eichmann and his holocaust assistants had a common intention at least regarding the goals of the holocaust. The experiment began in '61. Not long after Adolf Eichmann's trial. Milgram investigated the justification for the acts of genocide, which the defendants then defended during the Nurnberg trial. Their defense was based on obedience. They followed orders from their superiors. The aim of Milgram's experiment was to determine the limit to which people would show obedience if it involved hurting another person. Milgram was interested in the ease that ordinary people would be influenced by a crime such as the Germans during World War II. The experiment involved 40 men between the ages of 20 and 50 who were recruited through newspapers and each was paid $4 and a half. And most of the time, what was it about? He further states the following. He says the conclusions from that experiment. If concentration camps existed in America or any other country in the world, it means even in Croatia, instead of Nazi Germany, there would be no problem in finding camp staff. The only thing that mattered to 65% of the subjects in the experiment was that the torture order in his case came from the mouth or the feathers of the person representing the official authority or legal authority. 65 out of 100 people will not question the nature or intent of the order itself, at least 65 out of 100 people are able to carry out everything an authoritative figure commands them to do. This condition, beware now this is called an agent state of consciousness in which the ability of moral judgment in the very nature of the command is excluded. So a person if you tell a person I don't know how to shoot people and throw them in the Danube, and 65% of the people if they tell him that his commander will do it without thinking, and they won't consider themselves responsible, they won't think they did it, they'll say that they just executed the order, that they actually killed those people someone else, not them. Why is this experiment important? Because we can face history, we can determine what happened before. But if we don't inform people about the problem of blindness to authority, there's a possibility that a crime in the future will happen again because, as I said, 65% of people are willing to commit a crime, not because they're bad, but only because they're obedient. Unfortunately, our educational system does not prepare at all, i.e. it does not tell the students about it, and in fact I would dare say that the basic purpose of our education system is to create obedient people, obedient people who will ultimately be obedient in their workplace regardless of whether it is the Croatian Parliament or the police or the military or city cleanliness, etc. This bill by its nature is positive because I think the archive should be public. However, Mr. Tudjman said that it should be charged. I don't see the point of charging, and I'll tell you why. Because let's say one young boy hacker Aaron Swartz from America, he's namely what happened. The U.S. court rulings were digitized, but you had to pay for access to the database. And he published a complete database free of charge on the Internet, so, because he thought it was a public domain, so that all people would have the right to access that data for free and he published it for free. And that's why he was under a lot of pressure. In the end, according to the official theory of events, he committed suicide, even though it was said that the American government had actually led to that act, or that he had been killed. I think even after these documents are published, they will be published late with a 27-year-old away from that archive assuming that all the 1900 documents are let's say '89. And in the '90s too, and clearly there are a lot of older ones, and I think the whole process needs to be accelerated, that it should be digitised under the emergency archive, without compensation, and to the use of citizens who are interested in the archive. Otherwise, I believe that the biggest obstacle to opening these archives all this time was the fact that a large number of HDZ members had previously been in the communist party, including its founders, and that for these reasons they simply wanted to protect themselves, but also their associates. The same logic also comes to the conclusion that those who won World War II, let's call them anti-fascists they acted through the Communist party later, later these anti-fascists took over in Croatia under the name of HDZ and for that reason to hide the crimes they called the genocide in Bleiburg a massacre although the extent of this killing indicates that it was genocide. I'm sorry that history is politicized, I'm sorry that history is factoryed and adapted to the interests of a party. So I'm sorry that because of the interest of one party, the historical archives, or those of the Communist party, were not opened in the '90s. I am sorry that even today 2017, a mass murder in Bleiburg and after Bleiburg is not allowed to be called the real name or genocide. And when we're faced with such a, let's say a vivid manipulation of reality, the question is how much history our children in schools are learning is objective and how simulated the reality in which we live, which is created by mass media, how real it is or how separate it is from reality. Unfortunately, it's not only manipulated by the past, it's trying to manipulate the present, and it's also affecting the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35155	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the closing statement will now be given to the honourable representative of Nikola Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35156	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Now, according to today's debate, it seems that our bill is welcomed by all MPs, with some of my colleagues unfortunately calling at the beginning to calm down tensions, once again taking advantage of the opportunity to charge each other, often unargumented, so the same story has been practically repeated in which there are several communists, refugees, criminals. So in this final presentation, I would like to thank all the MPs who supported this proposal in their presentations. We will also support fellow Members Miranda Mrsic's proposal to re-invoke this Committee on Science and Education in order to determine the conclusions of the Committee itself. I also call on the board president to re-invocate the committee. I'd like to use this final presentation to talk a little bit more about the problem of personal data protection. It is a question which, in the constitutional sense, is demanding, perhaps most demanding, and I think that by proposing this law, we have very well solved it. One of the solutions we could hear was that the archive material containing personal data, whose creators were the bodies of repression, was now spoken by fellow Tudjman, meaning the judiciary, police and secret services, was available but only for holders of certain duties, employees of these bodies and associates. A similar solution in the public debate, we offered it perhaps colleagues do not know, so it was the original proposal, so a similar solution in the public debate experienced criticism of the archival profession and part of the public because of the indeterminate notion of the official. It is obvious that because of the specificity of the communist regime, the term official did not at the time have the same meaning in today's democratic order. I was talking about the role of the media editor at the time, so I said today that it's a similar situation only that part of today's media serves certain stakeholders, and at the time the media was in the service of the regime. I would like to point out that in the preparation of the proposal, the MOST Club has also examined comparative experiences in which similar solutions can be found. In this regard, we suggest that, for example, the Czech experience is looked at where the archive material with the personal data from communist times is available without any restrictions. Even at the end of last and early this year, the Czech Constitutional Court decided to find such a legal solution acceptable in the context of the protection of personal data. As regards the issues of the implementation of the 2016 EU Data Protection Regulation, which the Government has also touched in its opinion, we believe that it should not only be seen in general but also referred to individual solutions. In addition to any general reference to this Regulation, no conclusion or article of this law which would be contrary to that Regulation is practically indicated. This Regulation has indeed adopted some new rules on the availability of personal data, one of the main newspapers in that Regulation concerns rules on the protection of personal data collected by modern electronic means and means of communication. In this respect, the EU recognised the need for data that is mass and globally collected for the purposes of different research to be collected because it can lead to significant scientific findings particularly in the context of health protection. Here we also talk about personal data that are collected daily and routinely through Google ads, facebooks or how teleopers do so and practice with credit cards that allegedly collect prize points and actually serve to connect purchases and names and last names of consumers, its purchases and habits to individualize offers, etc. data mining for marketing purposes. In this context, the European legislator also recognised the need for an individual to have the right to protect his privacy. But it is a question that is in no way related to the issue of the availability of personal data from the communist archives. It should therefore be pointed out in particular that Member States have also been left with great freedom to regulate the issue of availability of archive material, and in particular the one from the time of failed totalitarian systems. That is also the wording of the following text of the Regulation. ‘The bodies of public authorities or public or private bodies holding records of public interest should be services which, under Union or Member State law, have a legal obligation to acquire, maintain, evaluate, lie, describe, communicate, promote, spread, and provide access to records of lasting value for the general public interest. Member States should also be authorised to provide for further processing of personal data for archiving purposes, for example. with a view to providing specific information regarding political behaviour during the former totalitarian state regimes, genocide, crimes against humanity, particularly Holocaust or war crimes." It's a finished quote. We also know the practice of relevant European courts, precisely because of this practice, that every person exposed to false accusations, that she was, for example, a co-worker of secret services, to ensure that she had access to all the material and files that were related to her so that she could defend herself against such charges. As far as European laws on the protection of personal data are concerned, you will find that archives and archive materials are the exception of these rules. European law clearly recognises the need for archives to be made available to researchers as well as personal data. For reasons of clarity, I will quote one of the basic principles of the regulation. The continuing processing of personal data for the purposes of archiving in the public interest, for scientific or historical research or for statistical purposes, should be considered as harmonised legal processing. Please also, as I said earlier in the replica, make an effort and check the countries that opened the archives suffered damage due to lost disputes at international courts. On the contrary to the government's views, individuals have successfully pointed out to European courts that data from the archives were not available to them so that they could defend against charges of being co-workers or secret police informants. So countries have lost such disputes precisely because of the closure of their archives and not their openness to what some colleagues have warned in the debate. Here I want to thank the government for giving a comprehensive opinion on the bill. We even had the opportunity to see some ideas of the government for the future entire archival law which are not directly related to this proposal. We could also see something about security certificates prepaid cards, realize that Croatian archives are basically inappropriately abandoned by a state with a lack of human potential, money and space. And that is why we are pleased to have launched this debate that will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the development of archivism in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35157	Thank you, we have one replica, two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grumo, I would like to replicate the part that you presented when you said you supported Mr Miranda Mrssic's proposal to re-verify, or convene a session of the Committee on Culture, Information, Information and Media. Of course you can support it, it is not at all questionable how the chairman of the board will act, it is now his business. But I would only because of the record so that there would be no doubt left that the chairman of the board told me that by reviewing the conclusions, that is, the conclusions he signed before the board found that in one part was missing, the part relating to the opinion of the Government was dropped, so he asked that his professional service once again check that it was at the time of the proposal. When he found that just the moment he proposed as chairman of the Committee of Conclusions, he had requested that an amendment be made. And instead of commending him by his colleagues for noticing that he had misdirected and, in a certain way, sending the wrong document to the Assembly, not the kind of committee he had adopted is now troubled by the president who corrected it when he found that the error was in the conclusion itself. It would be perfectly normal for me to attack him because that first, incorrect conclusion was made because it was not in line with what the board members had adopted and now we have heard that he was actually being attacked because he had referred to the Parliament for the exact conclusions that the board members had adopted and that was easily checked by the audio recording of the committee's own sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35159	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35160	In general, I think it would be wise to re-invoke the session and see what conclusions the board members and all political parties in this House are behind. So we think it would be good and wise without any intention of accusing Mr. Oparu of wanting to do something that was contrary to the conclusion of the board itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35161	Okay. Of course it's up to him. I have to personally say that there isn't, for me there's nothing controversial, absolutely nothing controversial. There's an audio record, an audio check. We all voted unanimously for the conclusions. What's the matter? Everyone who was, of course. Who wasn't the one who didn't vote, of course. But everyone who was, that's how it's always been at all the board meetings. Everyone who voted unanimously. Of course, we can bring every committee into question in that way, a meeting of each committee, and ask again. But I don't see these misunderstandings, but good. Of course, the proposal will come to the chairman of the board and he will, of course, decide. The next replica is the distinguished representative Ljubice Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35162	Thank you very much. Well, you've noticed that all the MPs in this assembly, how they'll support this bill in the first reading. This is proof that we are all in the best interest of this problem being solved in one quality and complete way in the Republic of Croatia. But today you said on the Legislative Committee that you at the club are aware that this bill does not solve this issue completely and in a whole way. Therefore, I believe that you will consider all the comments and suggestions until the second reading in detail, and that we will indeed address this issue with one quality, complete and enforceable law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35163	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35164	Dear colleagues, thank you for your comment. So you didn't get me right. So I didn't say this bill doesn't solve this issue. It completely solves it in an extremely good way. I was talking about a whole law that would solve all the problems of archivism. I'm not talking, I'm not talking about the problem of opening an archive from the former communist system. I think this bill of ours is extremely good at resolving this issue. But it's only part of the segment of what archivism is. So you didn't get me right. And as for all the proposals, all the proposals that are high-quality, which go towards improving this bill of ours, of course we will respect and then expect, means by what's being said here today, practically everyone backs this bill. I expect him to be brought here to the Croatian Parliament. And that what was said here today to show it both in hand-lifting and in first and second reading, means when the final bill is passed. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35165	Thank you very much. Another replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35166	A fellow Grmoy, this law deserves the truth, a crime needs to be punished, but above all, being the primary victim and their family. And all the suggestions as you said, which you well pointed out would be appreciated, although this part and the opinion of the government that were inconceivable in the debate you had well resolved. Surely one of the better solutions that has been proven in other countries and is easily verifiable and in international courts we will not have as a country of problems, much less problems. And most importantly, the victims deserve the truth and their families, and these numerous victims still, their members, they don't even know where they are. We also have the living, so more people who suffered in the communist regime not by their own fault but by the guilt of those who terrorized them, not by the guilt that they were criminals, but only because they wanted a democratic system or they thought differently from the great leaders who listened to their employers at the time. Therefore, I hope that the fellow MPs will include everything that was given in the second reading and that we will unanimously support this proposal and close once and for all, once and for all, close this historic issue and continue to build the future in peace as we once had, and this is the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35167	Thank you. Here's what I'd like to conclude, then, is the debate on this point. We'll meet again on Wednesday 29 March. The 9:30 session will begin with a vote and an addition to the agenda, and then the first item will be for those who may be hearing weaker, you left because they said we didn't say well last time. This time I'll make it clear, it's not about the people who are sitting here right now. So, the first item will be the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision to declare "The International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of Porajmos/Holokaust, which is marked on 2 August." See you Wednesday. Session adjourned at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35168	The next proposal is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive materials and archives, first reading, P.Z. No. 104. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The debate is closed. On this draft law, the conclusions were proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and the SDP Representatives' Club. In order to accept the proposal for a conclusion of the SDP, the applicant must agree with it in accordance with Article 188. Rules of Procedure. The SDP representative club submitted a request for a name vote pursuant to Article 255. Rules of Procedure. If the SDP Representatives' Club remains at the request for a name vote, we will also implement it in accordance with Article 258. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35169	.../Intruder Bauk: We are withdrawing the proposal./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35170	Thank you. After this has been completed in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive materials and archives is adopted. Secondly, all comments and proposals presented in the debate, and in particular the comments and proposals made by the Government of Croatia, will be forwarded to the applicant for the purpose of drawing up a final draft law. Thirdly, the legislator is obliged to obtain the opinion of the Croatian State Archives, the Personal Data Protection Agency, the Advocate General and the Commissioner for Information on the issues to which the final draft is concerned before the final proposal of the Law is submitted. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35171	Mr. President, I suggest we vote on points one, two and three of the conclusions proposed by the Committee on Education, Science.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35172	Since the Committee on Education, Science and Culture has given a unique vote and voted on the Committee for all three conclusions, I will propose a single vote for all three.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35173	Mr. President, I'd like a 10-minute break for the club to consult on how it will vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35174	I'm approving a 10-minute break. 9:45 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35175	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:55 A.M.]] And I'm going to ask on behalf of the SDP that the word be taken by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, we would prefer to have more opportunities to talk about issues from the future, such as curricular reform, less about issues from the past such as archives, but since we are voting on this proposal of the law of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and that we are, in fact, at the very beginning, in a strange situation, so that the party of the parliamentary majority proposes the law, that the government of the Republic in which the party participates gives a relatively negative opinion on the law, that nevertheless the representatives who make up the parliamentary majority support the law in the first reading, and have great objections to it in the second reading. And now we've come to a situation where we're actually voting on proposals for conclusions that have several unusual situations and facts that I want to say something about. So the SDP club will vote in favour of accepting the law's proposal that it goes to another reading. If voted separately on the conclusions, they would not accept a second and third conclusion in this form. First, as regards the second conclusion, which says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take special note of the objections, it is not acceptable for us because we have obvious observations of the first and second order, and then what the representatives say both committees and clubs of the representatives are objections to the second order, and the first order would be the objections of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, then, if you didn't let the government make that law, it would be easier for us. Of course, the party that is in the ruling majority, which is proposing the law, has rejected the proposal to do so by the government. Okay. The second conclusion, i.e. the conclusion of the number three, which speaks of whose opinions are obliged to obtain applicants before the adoption of the final draft procedure, is not acceptable to us for two reasons. First, it is the institutions that correspond to the Parliament, not the Assembly to them, and if a parliamentary club is working on a bill, then it is not the ruling majority to accept or release the proposal with the full confidence of the proposings to go to another reading or to task the government that is in the process of drafting the law and is obliged to obtain and consult with the interested public and to show the ministries and something else, and not to assign the club of representatives to obtain the opinions of the institutions. This is unacceptable to me and to us at the SDP club, so the Parliament is above these institutions. If the Government were to propose it can be done, however, it is not acceptable for us that the institutions that correspond to the Parliament actually stop one club from proposing the law while waiting for their opinions. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, we are still proposing that the conclusions of the 1, 2 and 3 Committee on Education vote be separated and we would like to have as it is otherwise known to happen, let's say my conclusion was that the proposal was made, we would also like to hear the testimony of the legislator and, on a proposal to vote separately on points and to conclude by these points, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35177	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, like this, first of all, the government did not reject the bill. It's something that's constantly trying to repeat but it's not true, so the government didn't refuse that. Secondly, the committee unanimously voted in favour of this, which is exactly the same conclusion, including the representatives of your party. And we have a third conclusion as is this conclusion, as is the case for all of us and today's already voted conclusions, and all of the voted or not voted conclusions consist of two, three articles, and have always been voted in general. I don't see any reason to step down from that practice right now. So I'd like to ask that we approach the vote. Dear Representative Glavasevic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have injured Article 248. Rules of Procedure. You've been replicated at the break, or at the hearing, or after the break of your colleague, Bauk. I mean, that's not meant to be, there's no business opportunity to replicate the person who had the break. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-24-0.u35179	I didn't replicate because I'm running a session, but I answered him, which is why there's no single vote. And why we've never had it before, so we won't have it now. Here it is, therefore, I would like to ask that we vote on the Amendment Bill and the Supplements of the Law on Archive materials and archives, first reading, P.Z. No. 104. It is proposed by the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, so on the conclusion it was read earlier. I beg you to turn yourself in and vote. Thank you very much. 114 votes for, 3 abstentions, none against. I find that most of the votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent council. Before continuing our regular work we have registered several clubs related to the break. So, the first is Honorable Representative Dumbovic on behalf of you, please. You have to tell your colleague Dumbovic why you want to take a break? You're the one who announced the break, but you have to tell me why you want to take a break, which is what you're talking about.
