ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38515	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take our seats and continue our work as planned in the agenda. So now it comes to order Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 145. Here you go, pal Bunjac, you've reached out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38516	So, Madam Vice President, on behalf of the Living Wall and Power Club, I demand a 10 minute break to discuss the consequences of Lex Agrokor on Croatian society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38517	Thank you. Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38518	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, I'm also asking for a break of 10 minutes to inform citizens of the losses in investing compulsory pension funds in the Agrokor system of which the public has no knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38519	Thank you. Anyone else? Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. For the same reason, he's looking for a break from the SDP counseling club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38521	Thank you. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38522	On behalf of the club MOST, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes from the current political situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38523	Thank you. And no one else. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 9:45. [[It's 9:00.35.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Here's a colleague and a colleague, we're running out of time, and we're going to go in line on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA will be spoken by the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38525	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, a little more than two months since the adoption of the Lex Agrokor, which was accepted in the Assembly by 83 votes in favour and this short deadline was quite enough to see clearly what the consequences of that law were. In fact, everything the government said at the time two months ago that this law would prove to be incorrect. Among other things, it was said that only part of Agrokor is in trouble, that there are healthy companies such as Ledo or Jamnica. However, we have learned that these companies are in worse shape than the Konzum itself, that they are worth literally zero kuna, so their shares after a catastrophic fall have been cut off from the Zagreb Stock Exchange. It has been said that the negative trend can be reversed by additional government intervention, which is entirely wrong because there is no benefit that Agrokor has not already received from the government in the last 15 years. The Agrokor debt alone in the term of the government alone has increased by 6 billion kuna and is currently at 40 billion. The sale of Konzum fell 30%. The credit rating of the company in this calendar year alone has been reduced as much as 4 times. Agrokor was shown to have no salary, let alone for suppliers and even less for banks and to expect his creditors to write off a minimum debt. It only takes a billion euros to maintain the ongoing business of Agrokor without even offering the creditor ownership of the company. Among other things, the government said that the Croatian state would not take responsibility for the debts of Agrokor, but the US allies who entered the company claimed otherwise, that the government would rightly be responsible for the damage suffered by the creditors since the Lex Agrokorom changed standard market rules. That the government was directly responsible for Agrokor was best seen on May 29th when Prime Minister Plenkovic negotiated with Deputy President of the Sberbank Administration Maksim Polletev. He is negotiating a loan for a private company in which Ivica Todorovic and his people continue to sit on the Supervisory Board and draw the end of the business. The fact that the religious council of Agrokora entered the American vulture funds is also well shown to the Croatian state, and it is known that their main method is to collect lawsuits against the Croatian state, i.e. the state in which they appear. The government said it would help suppliers, and we see that in this situation banks have a privileged position since they are offered so-called. Roll up arrangements. Next, suppliers turn to foreign trade chains, and above all Lidlu. The MPs justified the vote of lex Agrokor to protect jobs, and interim manager Ante Ramljak already announces the cancellations, primarily in BiH for the start. It has been said that GDP will continue to grow, and very objective reports say even the governor of the CNB announce that GDP will fall not only in Croatia, but even in Serbia and BiH as a result of this law. Also in the past month, due to the government's poor moves, the share of poor and uncharging loans has increased, consumption has dropped and consumer optimism has waned. The following things are now seen what we already knew, which is that lex Agrokor has a function of saving a failed tycoon that was mildly done at the border of the law to protect the very top of the government in Croatia. Protecting the "boss" government essentially protects itself from prosecution. In addition, the decision on five million kunas given to the DORH for the investigation of crime is just a smoke screen to show that all converted crime was in fact legal. The government actually did the following. At the first stage of resolving the alleged damage she wants to play mediator, however, eventually the government will have to stand directly behind Agrokor, lend it and de facto take ownership of the entire company. As a result, we will have an increase in public debt and a new recession before the government's four-year term expires. Such an upheaval inevitably requires the government's resignation. There has been no break-up of the HDZ-MoST coalition, and the government has fallen on Agrokor, and it should be made clear to Croatian citizens. If political wisdom had already been held, the parliamentary elections would have been held, and this is how we witness an unremembered play of ruling furniture that has led Croatian political life to the moral bottom itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38526	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, we will change Croatia, the honourable representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38527	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs, respected citizens who follow us through your screens. I would like to inform you of what is clearly one of the banned topics in the Croatian public, which is the investment of compulsory pension funds in companies in the composition of the Agrokor concert. Let me just remind you, mandatory pension funds have a key task of investing in money collected in a second pension column, earning on the basis of such investments certain profits to improve standards and increase pensions of future pensioners. But here we have a case of huge losses. That's what I'd like to inform you about, and I don't want to deal with the issues of overlying. So called mandatory pension funds, because of investments in Agrokor shares, have made huge losses and is silent. Who and why is hiding this truth? I have warned in the Assembly before in the annual mandatory pension fund reports that these reports were written defences, where managers are justified that they could have been better, but there was nowhere to invest. Of course, it's just these months that we can see it's not like that. Why? On the contrary, fund managers are easily involved in special arrangements with individual company owners or in subjection to political tasks. For this, the best example is the Agrokor or the Ledo stock company. As you know in December 2012, all 4 pension funds invested in the purchase of 63,000 900 shares of Leda and paid 510 million kuna, so each share, even 8 thousand kuna. Today the price of that stock is more than half, so I don't bother you with a series of information. Today we're actually witnessing dramas about Agrokor because everyone's just talking about suppliers and banks, but nobody or anyone who talks about special capital suppliers. Why did the OMFs finance, so these companies, by what arrangements? They did so on behalf of all members of mandatory pension funds, investing more than half a billion kuna in Ledo, in this case. According to the latest data, pension funds have increased even the number of shares in Ledo to nearly 70,000, which is very interesting. One mandatory pension fund sold its shares, which is Erste Blue, but the other 3 have even more shares than in 2012 capitalisation. So when we know that Lado is a payer, for the credits of Agrokor, close to 19 billion kuna, then we can safely say this, that members and compulsory pension funds have lost over 600 million kunas in shares only Leda. I repeat, the OMFs lost about 600 million kuna by investing only in the shares of Ledo. Why is he keeping quiet about it? It is interesting in this case, that despite the considerable amount of co-ownership, none of the representatives of the mandatory pension funds were on the Supervisory Board, although in other cases they sat neatly on supervisory committees, as representatives of pension funds. Why did they bother who? Why and how did they agree to that? Now individual mandatory pension funds make such statements that it turns out that their representatives were not their representatives, if they were even, but that they were proposed by the previous Supervisory Board. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, we see there's a lot of intransparency here. Today I sent a request to the Croatian Financial Institutions' Supervisory Agency, with the requirement to ask mandatory pension funds to draw up for each investment category an analysis of all realised and unrealised losses from investments in shares and bonds, counting from 2008 to today to see the right picture of things. From the CNB, today I requested an analysis of the lending of all related companies in Agrokor, by banks. And to finish this story. Finally, if we look at the results of trading compulsory pension funds for March this year, as a result of the Agrokor case, then it is evident that only in category B per month, where about 90% of all assets of funds are lost as much as a billion and a half kuna. Dear pensioners and you who stand out in the second pension column, you don't know what's going on. And to conclude, I stand for a stable, transparent pension system and I will seek the formation of an investigative commission in the role of CNB and HNF in the event of investments in Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38528	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38529	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When you passed the law two months ago, I apologize, the Law on Extra-Government, known as Lex Agrokor, we said, we said, we claimed it was a bad law, which could not bring any good to Croatia or Agrokor. But no, we weren't just criticizing, we made very clear suggestions for how this situation can be fixed. Just remember the speech and the presentation of our colleague Lalovec. Now, after two months, with great regrets, we can determine that everything we have announced, everything we feared, comes at a charge. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatia is being sued. We can read this today not only in Croatian media, we can read it on one Bloomberg, which is read by all the investors in the world. How successful is Agrokor after two months of extraordinary administration? Well, Mudis has already reduced his credit rating four times already. Four times in six months. Is that the measure of success? It's not. What's going on with Konzum? At the moment in April, retail sales in the Republic of Croatia grew above the EU average, transport to Konzum fell. So traffic in Croatia, sales in trade chains in Croatia, is growing, and Konzum continues to fail. Is that the success of an extraordinary administration? It's not. Dear colleagues and colleagues, how successful and high-quality the law is we see from the fact that the extraordinary administration today invents some sort of roll up model that is not foreseen by law. When you explained Article 39. The law of extraordinary administration, all that you said at the time is the opposite of what Mr. Ramljak is announcing today and that is why we will pay for all of us. And I'm going to tell you something, this political situation today, this cramping hold-up for power, this shame-saving chair, is not the consequence of anything but of trying to hide everything that will come out of the last two months of the application of Lex Agrokor, a law written by one click gathered around Mrs. Dalic, supported by Prime Minister Plenkovic. And that's why I'm amazed at those who today agree to be a fig leaf to such a government, and until yesterday they voted against that law. I am amazed at those who are hiding behind the defence of curricular reform today who will have to spend tomorrow with HRAST because without HRAST there is no majority in the Croatian Parliament, while closing their eyes that all the evil that has come to us with the Law on Extraordinary Administration. Dear colleagues and colleagues, regardless of all the damage that has taken place within two months of the application of this law, it is still not too late to change it, it is still not too late to listen to the advice that has been very concrete and clearly given to you by a colleague named Lalovac, it is not too late to do the right thing. But we all know what HDZ has always been and we know that none of it will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38530	Thank you. And the last will be the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38531	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I could now say that I've been right all this time, I could enjoy all those statements by the president of the CNS or by former President Ivan Vrdoljak about how I lie about the HDZ-HNS coalition, but I'm not going to be dealing with the HNS at all today. It was one logical decision the entire development of the situation indicated would happen exactly that. We all know that the HNS signed a motion for the impeachment of Parliament President God Petrov and thus directly favored HDZ, held the ladder for him, and was intended to join the government after the local elections. Many media are attacking HNS, nothing is going to happen with HNS, it is a party that has 2 to 3% depending on its people in certain structures in public enterprises, of which it insists, the HNS will continue to exist in this way. But what is seriously threatened is the slogan of HDZ President Andrej Plenkovic. I would remind you that throughout this time, the prime minister has been calling for collegiation, that MOST ministers have played collegiance towards their colleagues by voting against him and that he has therefore decided on the move to throw out Most ministers from the government, to now offer hills and valleys to the political party that triggered the recall of Minister Maric. So Plenkovic showed non-collegiation towards Minister Maric by introducing or proposing ministers from the HNS quota to the government of the Republic of Croatia. Who doesn't get it, he doesn't understand anything. But unfortunately Plenkovic will continue to talk about credibility, talk about stability, talk about non-legality. There are other interesting situations, so Plenkovic defended Minister Maric so much and spoke to us that it would not be collegiate to vote against Minister Barisic, so Minister Barisic does not Maric, that he would now give up Minister Barisic and give the Ministry of Education to HNS. So much for co-operation with Minister Barisic, who became minister here and we gave him confidence. Following the HNS' request for his impeachment, we did not vote against the government's co-operation to survive and move on, and now the party that initiated the impeachment of Minister Barisic, who was hit hard here, is now denied by Prime Minister Barisic and given to the party by the Ministry of Education. The HDZ colleagues are beyond any credibility, it's beyond any collegiation, it's a violation of all moral principles. I don't know what you think about it, can you justify it? Of course you can't, but you're gonna sell us some kind of stability story again, about collegiation. Don't sell us that. Since the second month, talks with HNS have been held, the intention was the only one, perhaps even agreed to launch the recall of Minister Maric because you knew or knew the prime minister that we are people who have principles, values, ideals, who can't get over it, and that it is clear to everyone that Minister Maric knew what was going on in Agrokor and now you have concluded that coalition as your former colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic says anti-natural fornication, so he said it was an anti-natural fornication with HNS. I don't know if it's an anti-natural fornication, but surely, surely, colleagues aren't credible, it has nothing to do with credibility. So you could joke now and say that the prime minister actually plagiarised HNS's request to recall Minister Barisic because he now renounces Minister Barisic. So he became a great plagiarizer, so the prime minister himself became a plagiarizer. This is the political trade of the worst kind, never seen in the Croatian Parliament, let's remember fellow Sauche to preserve that option after the elections, so they forced, pressured a man to vote here for President Jandrokovic and Mr Petrov's impeachment, so this is the political trade of the worst kind, and I am glad that MOST participated in this great disclosure of the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38532	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the next point. ... All right, what's the deal? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Turn yourself on, I can't hear you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38534	Thank you. Workers in Lipovljani at the Lignum company are on strike and I would like to say a word about their labour rights or whether the work has been suspended. Ten minutes, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38535	Okay, sure. I'll see you here at 1:00. It's 1:00 a.m. Stanka's expired, so I'm going to ask that in the name of the Living Wall Club, the word be taken by the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,10 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38537	Ladies and gentlemen, there's not much of us here today, and that's one constant. But unlike those of us who are not here at work, there are workers in Croatia who have to go to work every day. One of them is the workers of the Lignum company from Lipovljan who are on strike. It's about, they're dealing with wood work. Otherwise wood processing is a very risky job because there are frequent injuries to work. People lose their fingers, I've seen it many times, and I remember once when I asked a man during the campaign where he works, he told me he deals with wood. I told him to watch his fingers, and he showed me how he missed the last article on his index finger. In other words, it's one pretty dangerous job. And the workers of the League are paid very little. Only 15 kunas per hour are paid, and they demand to have 18 kuna per hour. This isn't really about the big money. We have here salaries of about 14 and a half thousand kuna, that's our basic coefficient, and those who are chairman of boards or clubs have about 17. I don't know how many presidents and vice presidents there are. Most of us here have very large salaries, they have very small and, unfortunately, we have done nothing to raise that minimum wage, that they do not have to work for two and a half thousand kuna, to raise them to at least three. And because we as legislators haven't done our part, they've raised a minimum wage, which is why these people are now on strike. Also, one of the other reasons for the strike is that they do not want to be given contracts indefinitely. Why does it matter? Because they're being blackmailed. If they go to sick leave, I don't know if a woman stays pregnant, whatever it is she won't get her work contract extended. And that problem, unfortunately, is chronic. It actually exists in Croatia for the last 25 years. And what's also important, they're looking for means that you can work on a particular one for a year and ask Italian owners to sign this new collective contract, which, as I said, is raised to 18 kuna. He doesn't fit. And these people are basically left to themselves, the state doesn't protect them, the owner doesn't care and the question is, how is this whole story going to end? And the main reason they're forced to work at that firm is because there are no other jobs. So, if there was a job for them at another firm in Lipovljani, if there was a higher salary there, they would go there and work there. So the reason why people in Croatia are forced to work in inhumane conditions for minimum wages without any right is because there are no jobs. And the policy that led to no jobs is that it actually forced people working on the remaining, or available jobs to work in catastrophic conditions. I won't say which party is responsible for not having jobs because you know it. But unfortunately, it is not only her, but it is also responsible for all the other parties that are participating in this government and participating in earlier governments and implementing the same monetary policy that led the policy of the unrealistic exchange rate of kuna where import products were cheaper than domestic ones, where loans were burdened with the currency clause and where all the money in circulation was an external debt which, through the CNB, turns into an internal one. Because the CNB didn't do the money show, it just turned and still only turned the euro into kunas and kunas into euro, or it played the part of the exchange office, not the central bank. And because of the collapse of the total production economy due to the severe credit crisis resulting from such a monetary model, because the same model has had the same catastrophic results everywhere. Today these workers have no choice and are forced to work for nothing, for nails. And I wonder, I wonder if this people will regain consciousness and I have come to the conclusion that if something radical doesn't happen they won't and will continue to vote for this policy that leads them to ruin and support those who lead him to ruin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u38538	Thank you very much. We will now take a break up to three hours usual when we will then discuss the final proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act and that will be the afternoon, so we will not have other points because we have enough material to do so. Here we go, so I'll see you at three o'clock. Thank you. It's 1:00. 20 o'clock. Now we can continue with: 3. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 145. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you by dispatch of the Assembly, the contributions with the report are not multiplied but are on the Croatian Assembly website. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. May I continue, Comrade Bull? Thank you. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39263	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support with the final proposal for a law. The birth and parent support law was passed in 2008 with effect from 01 January 2009 and has since experienced 5 amendments, and this would be one of the amendments and additions to this law. The Law on maternity and parental support belongs to a system of family policy and social security that directly protects motherhood, facilitates the coherence of family and professional obligations, encourages birth, enables greater participation of fathers in early raising and child rearing, fosters adoption, fostering. The law regulates the question of the exercise of the rights of pregnant women, births or parents, adoptors, on appropriate time and money support regardless of working legal status, and, in accordance with its purpose, prescribes certain obligations for the employer on protection and rights of pregnant women, parents and mothers until the first year of life in the workplace. The law is like this amendment that we propose in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and what we like to say, and it is in line with EU directives and has therefore had several amendments. We have approached the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parent support for the reason why we wanted to raise financial support for young families. Therefore, we have not touched on the existing rights of users or, in the sense of depriving rights, reducing, or supplementing certain new rights, with this proposal for amendments and additions. Since 01 July 2017, we wanted the maternity and parental benefits to rise financially but in line with budget options. This amendment is one of the most significant measures aimed at fostering demographic recovery and demographic development of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia continues to face very unfavourable demographic movements which are undoubtedly a long-term threat to the further overall development of Croatia as well as changes in the age structure of the population seen in the constant decline of newborn children and the representation of the younger population against the growth of the number of older people, especially those outside of working age. We have a negative natural growth, a negative balance of net migration, a decline in the total population, and we are listed as a group of countries of Europe that record a simultaneous natural decline and a negative balance of migration. According to the GSP results, in 2015, the decline of live births compared to the previous year by 5.2% and the total number of live births in 2014 was 39566 children, while in 2015 there were 37503 of which it was apparent that 2063 children were born less compared to the previous year. Natural growth is also negative. The share of older people aged 65 and older was 18.6% in 2000 and 19% in 2015. Also what we all know, we have a negative migration balance. The demographic framework of these economic and social processes is also reflected in the structure of the Croatian family, the number of married couples continuously declines, divorced marriages grow, in 2015 there were 19834 marriages, and divorced 6010. In view of all these demographic movements, in view of this family situation, we felt that it was extremely urgent after 9 years to increase childbearing and parental support in a financial sense. The amendments are proposed to increase financial support to individual user rights groups in order to further encourage the use of parental leave by both parents, i.e. to provide more quality and systematic support to families with newborn children primarily to increase the maximum amount of salary paid during the use of parental leave for employed parents, those other 6 months from the current limit of 2660 kuna 80 lipa to 3991 kuna 20 lipa. An increase in the amount of cash compensation for unemployed parents, and employed parents who do not comply with the legally prescribed conditions of the 12 months insurance internship uninterrupted and 18 months with interruptions from 1663 kuna to an amount of 2328 kuna. The increase in the fee will include parents who can use parental leave for the born twins third and each next child by the third year of a child's life increase from 1663 kuna to 2328 kuna. Money support for employed and self-employed parents who use leave for child care with severe developmental disturbances is also increasing to 70% of the budget base, and to work with half full-time to strengthen child care as well as other rights related groups of users. The application of this law will require additional financial resources provided in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Another 156 million 600 000 kuna for 6 months 2017, 313 million kuna and 200 000 for 2018 as well as 646 million 500 000 kuna for 2019. We propose to the representatives to adopt this proposed law after the debate so that they can pay increased support to our young families as early as 1 July 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39264	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas on your display, so let's get on with it. The first is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister, here I have listened carefully to your presentations and at first I would like to say that I support this proposal to amend and supplement the law, and finally here after 9 years, this support is changing too. I'm extremely sorry it hasn't happened before. But I need to draw your attention to the increase in the remuneration of employees and self-employed parents because of the child's care with severe developmental disturbances. From 65% to 70%, it's certainly not enough. It is about children with developmental difficulties, and we all know what their parents are doing and what their parents are looking forward to. Even though the movement of people with disabilities, and you in government, and here we stand for one integration of children into a normal life, so we should go to kindergarten, we should go to school. And if you ask me personally, I'd rather your parents work, even with half your time, but don't sit at home. Because they too need to rest a little from the difficulties their children have, and for children, not to say how much it takes if they are integrated into society. So I think a small number of parents will use this right, but there will be. I know you'll be passing a whole new law that I'm supposed to really expect then. with disability, i.e. children with developmental disabilities, should be included in the increase in this fee, i.e. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] in a fair way to resolve compensation for their parents. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39266	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished Minister Murganic and I ask all colleagues to stick to the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39267	Your Honor, Vice President. I thank the respected MPs for these and remarks and criticisms and suggestions that we are very aware of. However, it is clear that it is always a matter of some sort of restrictive financial means. What we do not think we have done in any way discrimination against this group of users for the reason that in the first year we have increased everyone equally. So, in that part, I think that we were guided by this one measure of justice, and we went to this slight increase in making sure that from the second to the eighth year of a child's life that has difficulty in developing a parent when he achieves his rights, that he spares his child's work and that some other fees for which we're 100% sure and that they won't be enough. How we work to consolidate social benefits and how we are focused on increasing all social benefits, especially those related to persons with disabilities, we believe that, in due course, in accordance with budgetary opportunities, we will also go to this financial improvement with a view to improving the material status of our families. And I'm just gonna look around for a little while. One of our demographic measures is certainly an increase in the number of kindergartens and kindergartens, the synchronisation of kindergartens with the work of parents, and would accordingly find both stronger and greater possibility, for children with developmental difficulties to be involved in kindergartens, but then the question of additional staff, specialized, who would be professional enough to include these children in everyday life in a quality way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39268	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39269	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I would briefly say that any fee that is increasing on the issue... that it is good, however, this is a drop in the sea, in the problem that you mentioned demographic images. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today we have a Constitution on equality, but the fact is that this equality on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, according to families, is not equal, so I can tell you that in Zagreb, and this is known to everyone, we have free textbooks, organised kindergartens, free transportation, free dance for students, while in many areas of the Republic of Croatia, that is, in two-thirds, we do not have that option. For what? Not only because of the ministry, but because of a number of decentralised funds that do not serve purposes, because school founders are mainly county and city, mostly county and kindergarten, and there is no investment. It is more important for the counties, in my Split-Dalmatia County, 100,000 people left Dalmatia's Zagora and the island. In the last 20 years. But it's much more important to Superba than to invest in free textbooks. So we're breaking the Republic of Croatia Constitution, which is why people move out and young families. So, today our maternity homes are empty, 100,000 people are less in the Dalmatian Zagora in the last 25 years. In the area of Vrgoračka and Imotski, Cetinski region, Drnička region, the island, is a desert country. We don't have kindergartens, we don't have free textbooks, people aren't busy, so this is a drop in the sea. This is a reflection of good where the system is well organized and schools and kindergartens and work for families. This way we do very little. So, the decentralised funds that go to the county, they're more of a catcher for their likes and the purchase of Superba, like in my county, expensive vehicles, but that those funds are being directed... should, the Republic of Croatia would be in the whole territory today demographically rich, the birthplaces would be heard crying, and not if in this way they were evicted, two-thirds of Croatia is empty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39270	Thank you. The reply of the esteemed Minister Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39271	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative, I fully agree with you, I agree that this is really a drop of water in the sea, but we consider it to be a start and that waiting for a time when we will have a lot of money, so we will meet all of these needs, I don't think it really makes any sense, we think that it is a good basis for any increase and improvement and financial support, but also for harmonising other rights towards parents and adoptors, or all the other categories covered by this law, to look at more, we focus on this law. I agree with you that due to the uneven development of Croatia, indeed our young family is in a difficult situation, especially children. It's a country's task to define one of those basic standards that we should all have. That's why we at the ministry were in favour of maternity and parental support, to raise them in this financial amount, and we felt that some other form of one-time assistance that would go universally for all would not be good for these very reasons. Because universally for everything is not always the same, because some social programs, some cities and municipalities, but in their own way stimulate demographic, or natal measures, perhaps even in greater scale than what the state is going to do. All these discussions have their place and I think they're all well-intentioned and focused on improving the status of parents and adoptive parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39272	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39273	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Minister Murganic, I must immediately say that the very negative demographic trends oblige us to take a series of measures and moves that are actually being witnessed by this bill. What I must say at the outset, that as a father of 3 children, I particularly welcome the increase in salary payments for parents who use parental leave for the birth of twins, for the third or next child for 30 months, i.e., it is mostly up to the age of 3. These changes, which means, for this group, the limits of the cash compensation increase from 50 to 70% of the budget base, i.e. from 1663 kuna to 2328 kuna, amounting to almost 670 kuna increases at monthly level, and if we use that parental leave in full time, this amount is almost 20 thousand kuna more compared to the current legal practice. Of course, we are all aware that this measure and this increase will not be too much for families to decide on 3 or 4 children, but that is, as far as I understand it, only one in not measures, or part of mosaics, that will help young families in those most sensitive moments, in moments of raising their families. We've already made similar comments during the debate on the House Loan Subsidisation Act. What I am interested in is that this increase is actually based on the national budget appropriations for 2017 and on the projections for 2018 and 2019, which means whether there is a potential for further growth in the future if the state-level developments are more positive, or better than those for those years 2018 and 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39274	The reply of the respected Minister Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39275	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, in any case, there are always opportunities, especially if there is a political will to focus funds from the budget on good policies. We think this is a good family and good, part of family and part of demographic policy that is good that goes in the right direction and creates a good basis for an even better upgrade. Of course, we have now provided funding in these projections for 2019. The continuity at this level is certainly guaranteed for the future, and everything that increases in terms of social upgrade certainly depends on what we all know about budget filling, or with economic growth and new jobs with better salaries, and a better budget will be filled as part of the contributions and taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39276	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39277	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's the law I think is a step forward as far as demographic restoration is concerned, but it's a drop in the sea, it's just one measure. We must allow or ensure that families and children at every turn in everything they do every day in their lives feel that the state cares for them, that society takes care of them. Here I'd like to present to you one thing on the agenda, it's part of the Demographic Policy of the Living Wall. So we put in procedure proposal number 78. Proposal for a law on special tax on the property of credit institutions. So, what's the basic idea? This is how we already allocate funds within the budget, within the existing money. What our bill suggests is to put a tax on bank property, so it would be year-on-year, so here we are talking about some 800 million in three years in the way we proposed 2.5 billion kuna would be taken from the banking sector, from their profits, and would be allocated, but not to the budget, but to a special extra-financial fund such as pension insurance, health insurance, the Environment Fund, etc. So to establish a special extra budget fund that funds are centralized, that they specialize and then coordinate with demographic reconstruction programmes. Is this how if we take the money, it's divorced in the budget and it doesn't have any effect and it's still too small. Therefore, I ask you to consider our proposal for a law, which is still what I would say is a weak law in relation to what some European countries have. France has a much bigger bank property tax, much bigger. This is only phase one, we can do the time of that tax and increase. I think it's a priority for the Croatian state and society to develop young families, to have people live here, not for banks to draw that kind of money. It's really one absurd thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39278	Thank you. The respected Minister Murganic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39279	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Your Honor. What really may be rare lately in our politics is that we all have the same opinion and welcome good measures. It's right here that's been shown about the measure of demographic policy. Of course, we all have good intentions, of course, that we all have our own suggestions, each proposal needs good judgments, analysis and time. What we could do in these six months given the available finances in certain positions, we have done, we continue to work on all the measures of demographic renewal, but we certainly need additional funding for that. Anything that's reasonable and anything that won't lead to other imbalances, we all, and I personally since I am for this portfolio for the time being I will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39280	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39281	Your Honor, Madam Minister. In any case, we should commend, practically support exactly what has finally begun to systematically reflect on demographic policy and I don't think there will be anyone here who won't be to accept this law. However, I would like to warn you of something that is happening here in Croatia, which you and your ministry are about to do, but I think the rest of us are going to start taking care of. The fact is that we are constantly talking about decentralisation and what is happening in every city and municipality from the field, the mayors of Istria who are now negotiating there. Each city and municipality is trying to encourage this demographic policy in their own way, trying to enable and facilitate parents, but the best help is and will be at a time when a parent is not forced to seek help, but when economic conditions are created that he can raise his children with his incomes and incomes. What's happening right now, and I'm saying it for a reason why I've made a move, and it doesn't seem fair to me. In fact, Zagreb started with free textbooks, so it went a little bit, and then we made such a decision in my town, so we started getting free textbooks because we have such financial potential that we can do it. However, we have neighboring cities and municipalities that cannot be realized. Why are my children in Bakr better than children in Fužine or in Grižana, Tribel or Franje in Pleternica or somewhere in Slavonia? What's going on? Zagreb started it, Zagreb has money in Zagreb from all over Croatia from all our cities and municipalities and it has that possibility. Many cities and municipalities don't have that. I have the opportunity to make such a decision in my town and we've made it, but I don't think it's fair because for me, a parent in my town is as valuable as a parent in a neighboring town and a municipality that borders with me, who doesn't have those opportunities. I think your ministry, but also the government and all future governments will have to start taking care of it and final decentralisation in this sense to allow units of local self-government to make it possible for their parents in their fields and children as best and as equal as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39282	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished Minister Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39283	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of yours, in any case, supported the law. You've opened up a series of questions. I don't know if I'm going to succeed now too concentrated and concisely give you an answer, but the fact is that we also have what I've responded to, fellow colleagues, unbalanced development for the reasons that some cities are, by all means, having a better economy, more employment, then having a stronger budget, why they have, and it's good that they've directed it to social programs. What I might point out, so also from the state level of the state budget, is being purchased or allowed children of weaker property to receive free textbooks. Now the cities have determined that regardless of the income and property status of parents all children get it, I really can't comment on it, whether we're going to come to that level, that all children have the same, equal conditions for full development, growth and life. This is certainly what we all strive to do at the level of the state, state resources, but I repeat, and children of weaker property through the social care portfolio can exercise the right to a free textbook. Is it good that the cities went linearly to everyone, if it's about children, then I welcome everything and all in any case well and positively.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39284	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Varge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, thank you for your presentation, we had a very good debate on the Committee on Health and Social Affairs. I was encouraged by your replica, in your opening statement regarding this legislative proposal, a segment related to the source of funding. You mentioned sources from the state budget, however, you did not mention that part of the funding is also financed from compulsory health insurance and HZZ. In fact, the law itself was written in 2008 when the ministry was all united into one, and health and social issues, i.e. social care in one ministry and it was somehow natural, but in EUROSTAT and other institutions that were doing international comparison with us, it is constantly said that we have too much expenditure on health care, too little for social care, but continued social transfers such as maternity benefits are financed from mandatory health insurance under the law and not from social care there that belongs naturally and where the holder of the law itself is also. I propose and we have had this discussion about this separation, however, this should be specifically mentioned here and these amendments and the additions to the laws are partly financed in terms of 12 million kuna per year from the mandatory health insurance fund and you know from the medical records the health care already has financial problems and I believe that solving the problem in social care is through the burdens of health care and is burdened with new problems and I find that this is not appropriate, I believe that it should be fully financed from the state budget and any future changes to the addition of the law lead to the full separation of the social issue and social transfers from health expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39286	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished Minister Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39287	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, we've had a debate on the board, I understand what you're trying to say, but I will answer you for other MPs. We agree that we very often have these different fees, support, mix, have some omens, social ones, fall into social policy or mostly, or it is social care, therefore, it protects the poorest. I understand that all of these burdens on health care, which is then shown in even greater loss, i.e. with even greater needs, are what we consider to be shared at this one professional level and to recognize what our demographic policy is and what demographic measures are, and what those measures include exclusively support for the poorest citizens, because demographic measures cannot be conditioned by the property, or by the financial incomes of the family, but they have one objective of upgrade, i.e. incentives. When, in this sense, there is a professional recognition and an adequate indication of these certain measures, it will be very easy to distinguish the team more easily because everything goes from the state budget but clearly, it will be cleaner accounts, I welcome it anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39288	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39289	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You were talking about Croatia being one of the worst countries in the world, having negative natural growth, negative balance of migration, a decline in the number of marriages, a decline in the number of divorces. We learn from this analysis that in Croatia more than half of the family has only one child and this statistics you have presented is really black. What I may have expected you to have the courage to say is the cause of such a condition because it is easy to list, therefore, some of the negative consequences, but they did not come by chance, so something is behind it all. Here, many European countries do not have such trends, which means that we are in our own particular way in this particular way. Perhaps the poor demographic state also contributes to the executive law, perhaps contributes to blockades, maybe contributes to the creation of homelessness, maybe contributes to action, maybe contributes to a lack of investment in education, these are all elements that need to be analysed before some measures that could therefore be called progressive in demographic terms. In any case, we support these efforts, we do not think that your ministry is responsible, so we will support these measures, and as my colleague Sincic said, we have prepared our own law which will therefore strengthen the demographic picture of Croatia, so we hope that you will support this law in the government so that Croatia will have reports in the future that are much more positive than we have heard today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39290	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. When we talk about whether we have the courage to identify the causes we have the courage to identify them, we have the courage to talk about them all together. Clearly, each of us will put our point of view and our priorities and will propose also by priorities and measures to address them. And I can agree with everything that you've said, it's really okay, it's the problems that are burning in our society, and they've certainly implicated all the negative movements that we have now. Do we have more or less of them than other European countries in the context of how we've evolved, how otherwise we have a different position as a country in everything and so on in this. I'd like to think of what you've added as more than a few things and a bad family policy, a bad relationship with families, we've got unstable families, we've got divorce litigation cases where most of the time children get hurt, where children are the subject of some sort of partner relationship resolution. We've got a lot of problems. What I like to say is that we have entered our part of the vault and are doing what we can now at this hour to look to the future as well. I recognize that potential among all of us so that we can all encourage all of these problems. I don't see anything wrong with this debate discussing all our burning problems. And I believe that if we are persistent and in some common policies that we will slowly and lenient them, we will solve them hard to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39292	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'll open up the debate, and we'll get to it in a row. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the first representative of Ines Strenja Linic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39293	I thank the chairman. I welcome all representatives present primarily and our minister with the Secretary of State for Demography. The MOST Club of Independent Lists will support this law. The proposed legislative proposal takes further efforts towards the rise in birth and parental support in the Republic of Croatia, and this is certainly for support. The purpose of these support is to provide care and care for the child, raising the child, protecting motherhood and harmonising family and business life. Because during the use of support to parents, social security needs to be ensured through the appropriate level of salary and cash compensation. And why is that? It is generally known that the development of a child is the most intense in the first years of life that UNICEF's campaign "The first three are the most important". UNICEF's campaign "The first three are the most important" talks about the first years of life, i.e. the first when they have a major impact on the achievements of that year on further achievements in adulthood. So, the brain of a small child develops incredibly quickly, and the nerve bonds stimulated during that period of interaction with the nearest people remain forever. Early childhood opportunities cannot be compensated, so it is important to provide support for children and their parents at the earliest age. Support should start from maternity because every child has the right to the best possible start of life. Therefore, every day of a young child is extremely important, and we are here to provide support. Only the measures of population policy must be truly optimal and only monetary giving cannot be what we, as a state, need to provide for these families. Today we are already in the debate and several times heard and I believe that we will and later, because this is something that we are all alive interested in, and this is not only money support during the first year of life, but also free textbooks for all children who are socially endangered primarily children if education is mandatory and free marenda and extended stayers for employed parents but also a whole social environment that will allow parents to be quality parents and provide those children and safety and home and emotional support, and that they are not torn apart between whether they are going to be jobless or not. Therefore, I believe that population policies must be truly populational, but that sensitizing the public for demographic problems and encouraging changes in this regard is crucial at this point. So, in Croatia for many years, with all changes in government, there have been markedly unfavorable demographic processes. So far, no government or policy has managed to keep young people leaving the country, change the trend of aging the nation, encourage their own population to have more children, return a significant part of the diaspora population but also show the political will to integrate immigrants. In 2015, clear and alarming warnings came from the UN, which were presented in the World Population Prospects report when it was said that according to the 2030 forecasts, there would be less than 4 million inhabitants in Croatia and up to 2100 people in Croatia. Croatia would have only 2.61 million inhabitants if it continued with existing demographic trends. Therefore, demographic policy must be an integral part of the development of a single country with a series of comprehensive measures that should extend to absolutely all segments of the economy, the social to educational sphere. So we think that we need to change the system of life values, that in it only declaratively, would actually, in order to advocate an increase in offspring and encourage a desire for offspring. The values are important. But they're not crucial in this story. The security of the economy, or uncertainty that makes people in Croatia existentially threatened, is important and prevents them from giving birth. So security is the key word, if there's no security, nothing will work. If people work for 3,000 kuna, if they're sentenced to overtime, Saturdays, Sundays, if they have contracts for a certain time, years, how to plan children. Studies testify that pregnant women and women with children are discriminated against, that they are far from positive discrimination as is the government in some European countries, especially Scandinavian and which allows women and men to be good parents. It is not true that Croatia follows demographic trends, developed countries have favourable trends. We don't. In addition, data from the euro barometer reveal that most people in Europe want more than 2 children. In Croatia they want 2.5 children per family, but they do not give birth because they are caught in a negative spiral of ponturing. The bigger problem than the low fertility rate is the ageing of our population, as you know the proportion of pensioners and employees is causing a dangerous dizziness, as one pensioner comes to 1.1 employees and with all its structure Croatia is among the 15 countries of the world that are the oldest population. That's the facts. You don't have to say that the number of deaths is even higher by 15 grand than the number of born and so every year. For years, then, demographics have caused very little political attention. Personally, until I started listening to Mr. Schtreck and Mr. Akarp, I am not whatever I've been doing in my life, I just haven't been, I haven't thought deeply enough about these problems, because it's not just a problem how many kids and how to encourage and increase some benefits to get kids born, we have to do a lot more to these kids. So, these are all long-term processes and all that we're doing today, maybe in 10 years, they'll have some kind of result, maybe politicians are just thinking about short-term measures that will give them some kind of success, but we need to think and think about all of Croatia. Therefore, the demographic problem cannot be solved by implementing the project during one term. Until there are enough quality and decent jobs in Croatia, we cannot expect any major positive change to occur. Demographic recovery requires investment in economic stability and economic development, with active innovative policy measures, and a policy to encourage moderate, up to a high degree of migration with policies of economic, social and spatial development of neglected, and empty areas of Croatia. Stopping a permanent depopulation should be installed as an absolute priority, with all segments of society, both political and regional and spatial at all levels of government. This understands full and strong legal protection, as well as coordination of measures in the field of health, education, housing, as well as access to public services and the labour market. Therefore, the establishment of a clear population policy is of exceptional importance, i.e. the most innovative population policy, which means clear empowerment and support of the family in all segments. The authorities must launch extremely serious measures to implement long-term demographic recovery, and therefore I welcome here our Secretary of State for Demography, I think that only on the right track and that these measures should not be treated as declared so far, but must become an integral part of the Republic of Croatia's budget, through which long-term monitoring must be evaluated, combined and led to the recovery of our nation and state as a whole. The combination and employment measures and the provision of a positive environment for raising the family, and the selective immigration measures in certain areas, which have been devastated, must begin immediately, but not only with the purpose of numbers, but also the quality of life should be evened in most, in all areas, in most areas, if not in all areas of our country. By applying all demographic measures and by correcting them, by efficiency of application, we must begin to achieve a climate for the recovery of demographic image and our country's leadership towards recovery. No demographic policy is cheap. And it is not an instrument of political pre-election policy, and I therefore call on you, which is why a political consensus is necessary in this verdict of the social issue. And I hope that, in this direction together, we will be prepared to make certain decisions, which will help stop this negative trend and help demographic measures, not only with this short-term cash, to move slowly towards the demographic restoration of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39294	Thank you. We have three replicas. He is the first to have a respected representative, Mark Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39295	Dear fellow Members, I would like to start right from this last call of yours, which is to gather together both this and the law is an example of the law that brings together and it is not suitable for the development of the projecting one, hence both negative and dishonest political disgust towards those political opponents. All we have in the assembly, but this law is an example of the development of a new border and of new meanings of social empathy towards families and children. We bear in mind when we talk about children and families, that society, states, policies and laws should develop this effective care, which is not only in the function of the production of citizens. To indicate only statistics, what is the relationship of pensioners to those who are in a working relationship. It can also be a kind of impersonal concern. It's much more important what you said, the first three are the most important, which is that the state develops those laws, effective aids, that those beings that entered the world that didn't create, and these are the children that get into the better world that we create. And this law must not be seen in one fatalist sense, that this is the conclusion of our concern for children and families, demographics and the population, but that this law is only an example of the effective construction of the curve and the permanent care of society towards those most needed, and these are certainly children who enter the world and build this better world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39296	Thank you. Reply by the respected representative Strenje-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39297	Well, Mr. Wolfie, I thank you for this comment. I cannot say it so philosophically, but I can say that we are what is important and that today on the Committee on Health which is not the parent board we have debated, despite the fact that it is also some kind of Zeitnot and we had no obligation, it is important that we have a consensus and we call for consensus on everyone in this House, but not just to increase these support, I think there is absolute space for both a larger increase and another category. We have different categories of those that are, for example. foster parents and foster children are not exactly in the same, so em what the foster parents did was something human, but they're not at the same level as the ones who are real parents, but they took someone's baby from the same month, two and they raise it. They also have those years to stay with that child. There are many other things that should be fixed, but we have shared support on the board, and I think it is very important for all parties, to support the minister that this law, as it is said in a different form, is further consolidated and added categories, to support it and to adopt it in order to solve this small segment, and it is just a small wheel in the whole of this story and population policy, but also a demographic renewal of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39298	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39299	Thank you very much. My colleague Linic, as you have said, has been a rapid decline in the number of people in the Republic of Croatia, mainly in undeveloped areas because two thirds of Croatia has not been concerned for the past 20 years. So we have a fact that, for example, In 2015, only naturally, Croatia lost 16.702 inhabitants because it was more dead than born, and as far as eviction is concerned, more has emigrated to Croatia than it has moved 18 thousand people, which means only in 2015 because of poorly intelligent policies and drops in the sea is a good drop in the sea, helping people, but without measures, even development, without measures where every household must have water supply, water in the households. For example, in my neighborhoods down in the Dalmatian Zagora in Dalmatia, a large number of villages that were once inhabited by children, many children today do not have water supply and of course people will be evicted, let alone organised any transportation to schools, any job. So the state didn't care about even development, the county didn't serve its purpose, they were the key to enslaving its likeness and giving concessions. Here I have calculated only on concessions in Split-Dalmatia County that two billion kunas go into other people's pockets. Now imagine what a population policy would be if those two billion kunas were invested in islands in the Dalmatian Zagora. It means that money has what the Minister said is gone, there is money, but it goes into other people's pockets our natural good concessions like the Golden War was, as the Makarska coast is being paved by someone without a kuna, without a certain limit of maritime good, so it's good for some criminals and political elites, which is why these ends are extinct and two-thirds of Croatia are empty. If it doesn't fit together in the area, and this is all a drop in the sea welcome, but a drop in the sea how much money goes to other people's pockets, not where we need it, and especially in the matter of natural goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39300	Thank you. Reply by the respected representative Strenje-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39301	So I'll answer you in a way that I think absolutely needs to find the funds, as Mr. Klaric says, how he solved the textbooks in his town and as we have cities where children don't have free textbooks and that's policy for what the funds should be found for. So it can't happen that in the city of Zagreb all children, all children and those who have money and who don't have free textbooks, without having poor municipalities that can't provide it to their children. That's why until all the kids who don't have money and parents So I won't talk about the Golden War, I won't talk, I'm just talking about having to go to the level first of all children from socially endangered families throughout Croatia have to get textbooks, and then... that those cities and municipalities that have money to give to everyone. [[Intruder Reiner: Fellows, please don't throw each other out of the bench.]] This is the standard that we must achieve, and I therefore expect that the minister and in that part will mean all of these small benefits that are very important for socially endangered families from showing up, from transport and all of this we must try to give to primarily socially endangered families in order to encourage them. Because someone who has a child and sees that he can't be educated, one or two, of course he won't decide on a third, especially if it makes him poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39302	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39303	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues in Ines Strenja-Linić are interested in what you think about devising compensation for the next six months because it somehow seems to me that more and more young families are actually afraid of creating a multi-member family, precisely because they are bound by credit obligations that have resolved their housing issue, and such young families either do more jobs or have found a job in their profession after college, so they have invested in their careers and thus have higher incomes, so their incomes are tied to certain expenditures. And with such young families often they either do not decide for children or the woman is forced to interrupt her maternity care because with a fee of 3900 kuna she cannot continue to settle her obligations. And I think this is the only item in the budget we can never say that there are no resources in the budget because if we're not going to worry about demographic recovery then I really don't know what could be more important than that for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39304	Thank you. Reply to the esteemed representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39305	Well, I'm glad that you've set up, I haven't been able to touch that in my discussion, but absolutely devising money fees for women at maternity after the first six months is also one of the most important population measures that we've really opened on the Health and Social Care Committee today, and I don't think anyone will mind. We simply need to be aware that there are also a number of citizens who will be born and who have had higher incomes and therefore we bring them into a very unfavourable position especially when they want to go back to work after 6 months, but we do not have a manger, nor can they actually leave that child except to find the women we guard. But what you would say is that for October of this year HZZO averaged 3950.89 kuna was the average of what it means for the first 6 months paid a maternity leave, which means that there are also those who have much lower incomes and those who have more. The average is 3900, so in the first 6 months you get a fee equal to full pay. After 6 months it's been 2300 now going to 3900, so we've supported it but I think the decommissioning is the next measure I think and I expect that this one, in some way, will be realized in some next bill. So far, we've decided to support this, because at this point, every third woman, the third woman employed between the ages of 25 and 34, is a highly educated woman. If we want to encourage birth and in that group where we are aware that women are also much less born, not because they do not want to, but simply think that they will further impoverish their family by going to the maternity home. This is also one of the measures that won't cost a lot of the state and will actually show that we absolutely support that a person who goes on maternity leave for a full year receives that salary, which is actually the average of that salary she received even before she went on maternity leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39306	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDP, on behalf of which will speak the distinguished vice president of this House Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39307	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Kind of since '91. For years, we have this negative trend, and unfortunately, as many family policies as we've brought to this House unanimously, as I recall, we've always had an agreement and we've always voted unanimously, unfortunately none of us have produced results. It is not mainly because there was no money for their implementation, most of the measures that may have helped our families to decide on a number of children, unfortunately the money for them was not all these years, and a lot of measures remained only as part of family policy, unfortunately never spent, spent their lives. However, looking at other European countries, the question is what are the measures that can encourage people to a number of children because I can agree with counterpart Linic-Strenja who just said that a part of the parents are afraid of falling into poverty, so maybe that's their decision. And she'd say, yes, the child is right to choose. So it's a parent's choice, and they decide how many children they're going to have, maybe one part of the people, no matter how much money and rights they give him and provide services, they're not going to decide on it again. You have a lot of people who own big companies, look at them, have one kid, away from not being able to have much more, so it's right to choose and it's like that and obviously we're going to have to deal with it. But, of course, for one part of the people who are quite sure as an obstacle to a larger number of children have both living space and employment and maternity benefits that are only one small segment, so just a year, many people tell you the easiest thing to do is to raise those first year, later it's much harder, much more demanding, much more money required, so the requirements actually go somewhere later. This increase in maternity benefits for the other 6 months was also part of the pre-election SDP programme, and at the time we were still in power, we calculated that this money is money, which we can find in the state budget, and that now the situation is in the budget so that it can really slowly start to delimitate and, of course, it needs to be done in the coming periods so that we really stop cutting off women who work, who have decent salaries and who are still increasing right now is much less than that salary they have, they pay increased contributions and taxes, so I think it's fair that we try to give them a real full share of that maternity benefit for another 6 months. However, there are a lot of measures that, let's say, the state budget doesn't cost anything, maybe we should help a little with certain measures of the economy, but this can be done by removing certain parafiscal burdens or some other measures. So there are some mechanisms that don't cost a practical budget anything, but they can help parents to make parental and business commitments much easier. It is also necessary to consider the possibility that in the case of single - parent families, leave can be transferred to a third person, so either to a grandmother or to a grandfather, so they often jump in as a good parent service, and I think that in that part children, first of all, can be cut off, that they can be done. The more flexible use of parental leave should therefore be ensured in view of the number of children, the possibility of working part-time that can then be used, as well as the use of those unsustainable months of parental leave in situations where one parent is unemployed, or outside the labour market and another employee, for example. one day off for prenatal examination as the right of both parents, provide for example. One day off for child adjustment or when he goes to kindergarten or first day of school, therefore, there are some measures that can be ensured if necessary in Croatian, so the budget does not require new funds. Unfortunately, when it comes to preschool childcare and preschool education, Croatia is actually somewhere in relation to European countries at the very beginning. You have Croatia which 99% of children provide in preschool education. Unfortunately, Croatia only manages 56% of children in any preschool form to care for children, which I think is the place to work. Therefore, according to the Ministry of Science and Education, 76 municipalities and cities currently in Croatia have no organised kindergarten accommodation for children. They don't have to assume not because it's their will, so they don't want to, and they don't, because they don't have fiscal capacity. They don't even have the money to build a kindergarten, let alone pay for a cold drive. Gardens aren't cheap, they're quite expensive and there's some modeality to be found. So you can't say in the election campaign for local elections there have been all sorts of promises, there have been talk of kindergartens having to do twice what would be great. However, it must be financed. Unable to impose an obligation on local self-government units. They don't have any money for that. It may be necessary to find a model in which the state or some fund will assist them and co-finance it, so some model will have to be found because it simply won't be able to transfer that burden to local units because they can't finance it. There's been a shift in our mandate. So, we had 2012. 153 municipalities that didn't raise any money for preschool education. So we're at 76. However, we managed to do something through decentralised funds and it should continue. We have secured, therefore, through the law and the nannies that are very flexible and that are much cheaper to local self-government units especially those who are small, who cannot build kindergartens. And it should be said that, unfortunately, every year, about 5,000 preschool children remain out of any preschool care, and that is one of the big problems for parents to decide on. Because when you have nowhere else to leave a child, when you go to work, it's really one big, big obstacle. As a long - term measure, we should be able to guarantee that each child will have the right to stay in a kindergarten or any other organised form of accommodation for preschool children. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, the manger's almost gone. The accommodation facilities are extremely low in the Republic of Croatia and unfortunately during that period every mother who would like to go to work after six months because her salary is higher than the maternity benefits unfortunately there is nowhere to leave her child. Now we can talk about whether it's good to separate a child from himself from six months or if it takes you a year. But anyway, I think we should open that space up to our parents. Of course it would be ideal if kindergartens could work in the afternoon, if they could work on Saturdays and Sundays, it would be ideal if we had programmes for children and schools throughout the year. I remember my childhood in elementary school, so we all could've gone to school this afternoon when she didn't go to certain school activities basketball, volleyball, I don't know anything else. Unfortunately, today it's children and of course it was free. Everyone has to pay today. That's completely impossible. Schools work in two shifts. So, we're going to have to get some programs back no matter what we think about them whether they were part of socialism or not, but they were just really good for raising kids. Children were much less on the road, and many more turned to other activities. Now, you've secured the money at this point for this increase. However, I will again and as long as I am in the Parliament and as long as you do not move something in terms of certain slightly more serious reforms I will tell you about where your money is and where you can find additional funds. We unfortunately didn't have enough money for that when we were in power. We started with the World Bank's loan, but then our time was up and we couldn't build power. So the child's allowance is one of the highest fees to be paid to parents. It's a billion and a half kuna a year from the budget. It's twice as much as it's set aside for social aid. All you have for him is income censorship. Once a year, applications are submitted and controls are carried out once a year. Now, how does that control work? I'll show you on the indicators. You tell me if it's a fair system and whether it needs to be done in order. Namely, at this point, you have three aircraft owners who receive your child's allowance. You have 45 boat owners and yachts more than 200,000 kuna. You have 925 car salesmans more expensive than 200 000 kuna. So it's about people signing up as privates on minimum wage. That's how they get into income censorship. All of what they have on the side you can't control or better put it if you do what we're planning, which is a unique cash center with one good IT platform that will connect in itself all the data that the state has at the moment. And this whole blood count of our citizens can be seen, not once a year, but every time there is any change in status, that is to say by property or financial users. So, 400 million kunas can be minimally saved on a child's allowance in a way that removes those who play the system because the system is not under control. That's what we did with social benefits and now we have to do with the child's allowance. You can either pay 400 million kuna for maternity benefits or you can increase the child's allowance for children who need it. It would be ideal if we had one universal child's allowance for every child because it's a child's right, but I'm afraid we're still very far from it because every family policy, demographically whatever you call it, costs several billion kunas a year from the state budget. I don't think at this point we're in a position to pay for it, but in any case, with a certain introduction of order, we can lead the system to be fairer, fairer and get some money that is now poured into the pockets of those who really don't need it. Whoever owns the plane can't get a child's allowance, that's inadmissible. But once again I tell you we're out of time, we couldn't, but please return that reform, in any way, to your program and make it. You can do it your way, however you want, but make that reform, put in order, because you'll save money and make the system fairer. And finally, the employment that is extremely important, is related, of course, to the childcare of preschool care, namely, when you look at EU countries, all countries that have high employability women are systems that have the most expensive system of childcare, through various services, which are very flexible so that parents who work can coordinate their work and family and obligations. No more working hours from half past nine to half past five, working hours are slippery, it passes through to late evening hours, it often passes on weekends, therefore it is very important to ensure that parents have the opportunity to leave their children where they are and to make sure that children are really taken care of. Here, since this is one, one good move forward, that will help those parents who are currently on maternity leave, those who will become parents who will be able to use this right, since this was also one of the measures in the SDP election programme, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39308	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Mark Wealigaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39309	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, colleague Opačić, that you have well detected here in your presentation, these very large differences that exist in the availability of pre-school education at the level of the Republic of Croatia and I consider that given the fiscal capacity, most local units, especially in the continental part of Croatia, that a certain state intervention is simply necessary to ensure that at least the same availability of these pre-school education services is available. I'll mention a few things. The first thing, pedagogical standards, which unfortunately are not respected in a number of preschool institutions, do not give them local units responsible. They don't want to respect them, they simply don't have the fiscal capacity to respect them. The other thing is kindergarten prices. The prices of kindergartens actually vary, from 350 kuna to 900 kuna, with these higher prices, are actually in smaller local units, which are much lower wages, and these lower prices, the accommodations in kindergartens are in larger cities, and yet we know that the average wage is much higher. And the third thing that would be mentioned here, where it would agree with you, is that the services of the whole-day stay of children in preschool educational institutions also have a major impact on the increased employment of women, but also on the birth rate. We know that only today is the alignment of actually professional and family life, parents will decide on children. Here, an appeal, in fact, for the ministry to do something about it, so that children in Croatia have equal conditions for pre-school education, which is according to all studies actually conjectures for one of their better-quality educations in the future and actually... [[Intruder Rainer: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39310	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the House will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39311	Thank you, Mr. Vesligai. I'm just going to correct you a little bit, so it's not 300 kuna, it's from 0 kuna. So we have 4 or 5 units of local self-government, which have 0 kunas, they fully co-finance the stay of children in pre-school institutions. However, that those very small municipalities that do not have fiscal capacity actually raise these prices and these are those that have almost up to 980, almost 1000 kuna per child per month, which is certainly a very large expenditure. So, you'll need to see, it would be ideal in long-term measures, if all the prices of having children in kindergarten were even, but for now, that's the question of the local self-government unit, that's in their jurisdiction, they decide for themselves, depending on whether they have money or not. What I know, so, everyone in some way, gets elections in locals, right in kindergartens. So, once again, I'm going to say it's not a question of their will, whether or not they will, but really their fiscal constraints that they have in their units of local self-government. So without the help of the state, without some special fund to co-finance it, I'm afraid there will be no exaggeration. Of course, strengthening the economy in units of local self-government that will fill their budgets is also something that is an exit, but all of these are some kind of long-term measures, on which it is absolutely necessary to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39312	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39313	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Mrs. Opacic. You have made a positive statement about the bill itself, which should certainly be pointed out, however, we must say that this is about maternity and pre-school care, maternity and parental support, so you've brought it all up and the question is actually the price of kindergarten and pre-school education. It is very important here to note that since 2017, when planned by budget 156,600 million in 2018, these support has grown to 313 million and 200 thousand kuna, and in 2019 to 346 and 500 million kuna. So this is a very multiple increase in the state budget, i.e. maternity and parental benefits, i.e. support. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that the child's allowance must be a child's right, independent of the property censorship of any of us. This must be the right of the child, as arranged in all Western European countries. Therefore, one child, whose parent has more than one parent, who is likely to pay higher taxes and greater contributions, cannot be cut off for that child’s allowance that belongs to him as a person and which should ultimately be a special item or preserved means of education or anything else. When we talk about preschool education, then we have to say that certain units of local self-government as well as mine from which I come, have a very high range of co-financing opportunities for 1st, 2nd, 3rd children where some families don't pay a single kuna for that very reason, and although it's being declared public that kindergarten prices are very high in our case, which is very much to reduce, but the coverage is very large.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39314	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President Opacic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39315	Yes, I fully agree with you. And I said that the child's allowance should be the universal right of every child, but that Croatia never has enough money to really be universal law then and when the law was passed, I don't know how many years ago, went to an income censorship that said o.k. Children of parents who have high salaries, who end up here and alone here in the hall should not receive children's allowance, let's prefer the money we have to redistribute for those who need it most. So I just warned that those who go through one system that's messy, which isn't informationally covered simply don't take the money that belongs to someone else and it's much fairer then give it to them. I only appealed to it, then maybe we can make a universal child's allowance out of that money. I really don't know, now it's already a question for people in the ministry who can do a little bit more and better to calculate if it's possible. And on the other hand, one more thing you'd like to say is that it's not just a maternity fee. There's a series of cash benefits I can help my parents. 75 different fees going from the state budget to citizens are therefore not under control and are not in one place. It's a unique cash center I'm inviting you to. In the arranged systems that have everything arranged, at least 10% of the annual irregularities are at least 10%. Take a pen and figure out what those numbers are, they're huge figures. So in our system, which is completely unsettled and not controlled, it's certainly much more than that 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39316	Thank you. Now the word will be taken by the Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, respected Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39317	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable MPs. I'd like to answer some of the dilemmas and see to it that there are some questions in the debate, and that perhaps the whole debate goes in one direction, perhaps now and another. Of course, each of you will decide how and in what way you will present the issue of this law. What would point out as extremely positive is that we still have one unity in this entire approach. Why does it matter? It is important because any measure of demographic policy and, in general, other social policies should not end with the mandate of one government. So if we are in unity that these are good measures, continuity and other governments should be manifested on this one basis, clearly we do not think that it all started with us because these measures only after long-term application can give certain results, or they can be measurable, so that they can give up, or all of them, somewhere else. What I would like to point out, this is not now a matter of pre-election promises, of empty promises, this is just one of a series of pre-election promises that we have made by believing in a term of four years and clearly that in that period we will also present to you a number of topics and to you. With regard to kindergartens, the harmony of family and business life is certainly one of the topics and certainly what is highlighted in the discussions that one social security, one labour law that would guarantee better treatment for pregnant women and mothers as well as women returning to their jobs, can be something that will in any case contribute to this one atmosphere of security. There was also mentioned a system of values that I really think we should work on, but I will also support this sentence where it was highlighted, certainly everyone has the right to choose how many and when they will have children, but if young people or parents decide on children, it is the state that should enable them to grow and develop safely. What she would like, and it is potent in the previous debate of the Vice-President of the Parliament, is about the child's allowance. We have come from the concept that the child's allowance is calculated according to the property and income censorship, because we believe that the child's allowance along with these maternity and parental benefits has a demographic indication and that they can't be conditioned by the property status of parents, because then, by that logic, we would otherwise be calculating these birth and parental benefits and not going in this way to increase, even according to complete demining. And that's one of the reasons why we're really thinking in due course of time about it being a universal child's allowance because we're going towards that trend of a unique standard for all of our children who may be in some future, but it's up to us to take the first steps. A single cash centre is being potentized, we didn't know what to do with the single cash center when we came in. I will responsibly say that we are for the consolidation of social benefits, I will simply say we need to make an inventory where and how, who, under what conditions uses social benefits. But also a unique compensation centre in which all social benefits that even have a demographic indication would be uniquely accounted for are indeed the direction we are leaving and we also believe that outside the stop shop cannot be a way of working in social care.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39318	Thank you. We have one replica, the respected Vice President of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yeah, I'm very sorry that you're giving up on that one concept that was good and that in one place would have all the benefits. So the state would have in one place a review of all the fees it gives to citizens from the state budget, citizens would receive all their fees in one place and exercise all their rights. When you say that the social care system can't work that way, as long as the employees in the centres are dealing with exclusively the money fees that are a matter of the greatest part of certain parameters that you meet, so unfortunately, the situations that are happening to us will happen. Behind my mandate, Slavonski Brod, for your present, Pula. Because 70% or 80 hours of work, they spend on writing solutions and administrations. So that was the possibility of dispensing employees in welfare centres, that they could deal with them, which is theirs to say core business, so, their basic, foundation of their life call, which is to deal with families, and not with writing a solution for monetary fees. But, well, you have another approach, and I'm also accepting it, as far as I'm concerned when I came to the ministry, I haven't abolished a single measure of the previous government, I've just put in a little order and put it, oh, say which I've abolished, and the second and family policies that have been brought here. We've implemented some measures, the nannies are one of those measures, so we haven't been going through our mind system and it's all starting with us. So as far as this reform is concerned, you've now publicly said that you've given up, I'm sorry, it's going to be a big consequence for the system itself, but as I said the other day, social workers can decide, either they're going to fight for themselves and for their space or they're going to be on the pillar of shame forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39320	The reply of the distinguished Minister Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39321	Of course this is political, this is the political of this rhetoric. I really don't want to get involved in these discussions, you, us and them, especially not in this way, if the single cash center had that vision or if you had it, you'd probably have left the foundation, but you didn't. We haven't given up on reforming the social system, however, we're going to introduce order in the social system, and what you're doing, you're doing the most damage to social workers because you blame them for being the ones who should rebel, not doing their job. Social workers are doing extremely well their job, a system of one-time cash assistance or help is perhaps one of the ways in which our parties come into contact, a social worker through this sees insight into the whole family. The reform that went by you where you went to the deficit resolution in the state budget, reducing the fees and the full budget for social benefits at a time when the poverty rate is growing, is certainly not something we should brag about, as we should not even boast about the reform of the system and say that you have not abolished anything. I had nothing to end because as far as the Single Centre for Refunds is concerned, you left nothing behind, you have abolished the Family Centres, and now we are all calling for the unresolved status of family legal protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39322	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Zeljka Josic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39323	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers and state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. You have today received on the bench a draft Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support with the final proposal for a law aimed at fostering demographic renewal and development. Of course, this is one in a series of measures that will help us precisely in demographic restoration and development, or in improving family and population policy. As you have already heard in the Minister's opening speech, this law has been in force since January 2009 and since then, a series of amendments have occurred. In those nine years, however, there has been no change in the material support itself or in the compensation of parents. These amendments to the law seek to change the amount of family support and thus improve the system of family support itself by hearing that they have changed, monetary donations have changed according to certain groups. You know very well that any parent, every mother and father in the child's birth, material support is absolutely necessary. Of course, this way, we will not stimulate parents to have as many children as possible, but we will greatly help them in what is very important to them and that is parenting. I must point out that in this way we give more money to employees in those other 6 months, which I as a gynecologist and as someone who is in daily contact with mothers, with my patients, I can say is one of the well-accepted measures. Of course, if we're wondering why it's not anymore, we've heard the answer. I'm glad that in your discussions and mention it, I'm glad that you mentioned kindergartens, I'm glad that you mentioned all the social benefits that are important to us, so that parenting is more helpful and that you can raise as high-quality families as possible. Of course, if we mention the situation in the Republic of Croatia, what our negative trends are, how a fairly large number of evicted, young people, let's say in 2013 moved out of my work quite a large number of young reproductively capable people, about 2,000 of these young generations have gone away. If we mention that every fifth population of the Republic of Croatia is over 65 years old, we are also talking about one negative trend. Let's say Sisak-Moslavina County from which I come is one of the oldest counties. A negative natural increase has been reported in all municipalities and cities. I will mention only one community that can be singled out is the Municipality of Great Ludina where 28 were born and 29 died. So, if we continue with this trend without doing anything, we've won nothing, and we haven't done anything. And that's why I personally support and on behalf of the MPs' club exactly this measure, which is how someone said a piece of mosaic and that will certainly encourage all other measures and put them together and help young families. Of course, only increasing the material rights of users will help our young families raise children. We believe that this will also strengthen families themselves. At first, I mentioned how we helped our busy parents and self -employed parents in this way, but these measures also apply to those who are unemployed. You know very well that not only the unemployed but also the unemployed, but also the farmers and mothers who are fighting for children with developmental difficulties, with children who need special care and certainly every kuna is welcome. If we're going to mention only newborn babies, I don't know how many of you know how much diapers cost, how much baby food. It's all big spenders. If we consider that only monthly expenditure on diapers is 500 to 600 kuna, considering that children’s food at some monthly level is about 500 kuna, you yourself know that all the material benefits we give to these families will not be alone and sufficient. So in this way, with the cooperation of all local units, the county will help these families. You know very well and Mr. Klaric mentioned earlier how his city supports young families through textbooks, through certain subsidies. Also my county that is not so rich gives support to certain subsidies. You know that subsidized and the transportation of students, the diet of students, you know that children are given a single support to each child born. All of these can create a beautiful mosaic to help and thus strengthen our families. I therefore believe that by further measures not only of the Ministry of Demography but also of all other ministries, we will allow our families to live a decent and quality life. I will once again say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club and on our own behalf, of course we support this amendment of the law and we believe that we will get a lot more good change on our benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39324	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Josic, I would refer to that part of your exposure in which you have highlighted the fact that this measure, therefore, is only one increase in maternity benefits in a series of demographic measures aimed at reducing the trend of negative demographics that we unfortunately have in Croatia. And I certainly agree with you when you claim that this measure should be seen as one in a series of demographic measures aimed primarily at improving the socioeconomic status of the family. And if, in this context, we are considering motivation for motherhood and women's right to choose, it is certain to expect that this measure in part of the population will likely affect the motivation of motherhood and the motivation to expand the family. However, it is certainly and I agree with it to be observed in one context by a whole series of other demographic measures that will be directed I would call it logistic support primarily for young families from employment through housing, the availability of pre-school institutions, the emphasis on mangers alike. So, developing would say the entire network of pre-school institutions and one would say much stronger cooperation with local self-government units that are founders of pre-school institutions in their field and with an emphasis on equating prices, so kindergartens. We know what the economic price of kindergarten is, therefore, to the unification of the part in which, given their fiscal capacity, the local self-government unit participates in co-financing. And of course, I'd like to remind, of course, one-way schoolwork, extended stay and everything you've pointed out that I'm not repeating right now. And I'd just like to use two, three minutes to remind myself that this is all part of the HDZ programme and therefore here's Mrs. Minister, so I support her efforts to approach this problem in one systematic way. The problem is very complex in line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme and, of course, with the pre-election programme of the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39326	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39327	Thank you, Vice President, thank you for your comment. You've noticed well, and as everyone here could point out, so we're talking about one in a series of measures. You could hear the minister, as she clearly said, that she would advocate not only for a number of kindergartens, but also for two kindergarten shifts, for better preschool education. So these are all the measures that we can further build on and which we can and can in the future mean that it will still help our families. And clearly in what we need most, which is the demographic development of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39328	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Josic, I will also refer to what you said, that this measure is a mosaic in a series of measures, of this demographic government. This is a good measure, this is not one mosaic in a series of good measures of this government's demographics, this is the only good measure of this government in general. And this, I personally support this, and I'm not going to demagoguely say that the fee should be bigger, because I am aware of the budgetary constraints and I know that it can't and this step forward is a big step forward. And this government has so far had a whole series of anti-demographic measures, so let's say, it's got a first real estate tax that certainly doesn't stimulate young families to start their own expansions and get more children. Then the tax reform that this government adopted at the beginning of the year, which increases salaries to the richest ones, and the young ones remain, the young families have remained from the abandoned increases, certainly not something that stimulates, this larger number of children. A loss of a 1,000-euro promise for every newborn child your party has promised in the previous elections, certainly does not encourage demographic policy. And so a whole series of anti-demographic measures. The limitation of the number of professional training users who are just hitting on those young people who need to get their first job experience is not a series of demographic measures, i.e. this government essentially has an anti-demographic policy, and this is one measure that is significant and good, but it won't change much, unfortunately. Thus, systematic demographic policy should be prepared and some measures that have a head and tail should be applied continuously. Not like this, but this is good. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39330	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39331	Thank you, Vice President. Here I am very pleased, fellow MP, that you are commending one measure, which comes from this side and I am very pleased and I believe in this way, that we can create some synergy in the Croatian Parliament, at least as regards the good measures that we all need to support. If they have any bad measures, we're here to criticize them and, of course, to make things right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39332	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39333	Thank you very much, colleague Josic. I also agree with my colleague, Djujic, and I support a measure that is unfortunately lonely, but let's hope that as much effort as it is now being made to get to the majority of political trade, that we will invest so much effort to help young families and people move forward. Unfortunately, we haven't done anything in the last year and a half. We have a problem not only with demographics in the birth of children, but also with the departure of young people from Croatia. We have a problem, let's say, with people who are over 30 years old, who I meet in the City of Zagreb and who are telling me that it would be good to allow them professional training because they later graduated from colleges, which the HDZ suspended. So there are many things that unfortunately we did not do, but the good things that have been abolished and disabled young people, young families to stay in Croatia and to do something about it. And on that side, I appeal, that both Mr. Plenkovic and HDZ get a little more involved in these problems, and a little less involved in the problems of how they're going to rip out whether they're 76, 77 and whether the party with 5 MPs is going to get 3 or 2 ministers. So that's something the government of the Republic of Croatia should deal with and what the primary priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be. Here's one of my appeals to a small, less political trade and more concern for young families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39334	Thank you very much. The next replica is that distinguished representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39335	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Josic, here we all agreed today that this is one of the most important measures aimed at fostering the demographic reconstruction and development of the Republic of Croatia. The government has also set up a council for demographic revitalization, but here we have the State Secretary for Demography present. Of course, increasing these cash benefits for unemployed parents, parents with birth twins, third and every next child, increasing support for employed parents, i.e., for single parents, that is one set of measures, of course, which our ministry will in the next period, hopefully further increase and we need to agree, should go towards demographic renewal. You refer here to your county of Sisak-Moslavina, I also have to look back at my Brod-Posavina County, where last year there were 250 high school students less enrolled, or 330 elementary schools. All together, we must, of course, encourage all good measures to promote demographic restoration, but certainly the units of local self-government must, if they are in their capabilities, and in Slavonia, we know ourselves that the economy is on the low branches, so that the only hope is that the Ministry of Demography is doing such a good measure to stop, or to reduce the emigration of young people from Slavonia, and of course there are also another series of measures. Many more kindergartens, reducing the waiting list of children's kindergartens, of course an extended living room for employed parents, of course for those with lower property conditions, are also free meals in schools, and here, a large number of measures implemented by this ministry, of course the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we hope that there will be a reduction in the number of emigrations and, of course, demographic renewals of the Republic of Croatia, because this is the only way to rebuild and develop the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39336	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39337	Thank you, Vice President. I thank you for the comment of the MP, here you have mentioned we are from the county who unfortunately are poor but that does not mean that our counties and our cities and municipalities do not support our small people. I also mentioned in my presentation that both my county and some cities are stimulating or providing one-time support for each child born who is significantly larger with a third born, and further than that, of course, there is very little. What you have noticed is that the Ministry of Demography will bring and implement certain measures, but in order to succeed, we need to have the cooperation of both the county authorities and the city and municipal authorities because that is the only way we can successfully do and help with our demographic recovery and development. I believe that we will soon receive other measures and that we will move to a new future and that we will not be left with so many young people, and those who have decided that we will really help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39338	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of the CNS on behalf of which the distinguished representative of the Goddess Makar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39339	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am generally against the passing of laws by emergency procedure, but this Law on maternity and parental support is one of the laws for which I am certainly to be passed by emergency procedure, so that from the 1.7 of our colleague, our mother, our women, who are now on maternity leave of the age of 1330 kuna and 665 kuna, respectively. Is that gonna help them? I'm sure he will. That they'll solve their problems? I'm sure he won't. That because of that amount and that increase, someone will decide to have another child, they will not, but that it will also be given assistance and certain safety in family planning, it will be, that it will be crucial, I say, not. So from all the debates so far, I have concluded that no one is against or that we all support the decision to increase the amount of support from 2660 to 3990 for other unemployed farmers who earn other income also to be an increase from 1663 to 2328. But also today we've all talked about what it takes to make us more, and there will be more of us if there are more children. And we talked about, as a rule, everyone in their county was bringing up the problems they were facing. I would like us to no longer have such access and not speak in this way because I would like children throughout Croatia to have equal conditions and equal chances for everyone, that all children in Croatia can normally go to kindergarten, to the nursery, to exercise their other rights, to have nannies if they do not have these conditions, to have kindergartens that will be adapted to the working time of mothers, or to work towards slippery working time, to have one-way teaching, to have a full-time stay organized in schools, to have a diet and in those afternoons even for students, to take care of children, but to take care of children in the entire territory of Croatia. But first of all, we need to decide about the child and there's one problem, and that's a certain uncertainty about whether we're going to have a job, what we're going to get paid, whether we're going to have an apartment. I agree with those who said in the debate that this is not a basic condition and it is not. None of this is basic because family planning is so individual and it will depend on it first and foremost. But that the decision is easier if we know we have certain security, it must be easier. If we know that we're going to have a solid salary job, that we know if we go to maternity care that that salary will not be significantly reduced and that we can continue to repay our loan that we've raised so that we can just start a family and have children because it's rare for those who have a housing issue at first. Young people like that are rare. And so they're all in debt, and there's already some uncertainty here, so I'm going to give at all now, let me get in charge, how I'm going to solve and there's already some problems. I'm glad we started with that increase that there are a lot of these things that need to be solved in demographics. But please, let the children be equal throughout Croatia and all children. And I agree with that, it's a big problem to secure the funds, but let's go whenever we can. And in what I see, 313 million 200 thousand were secured for 2018, for 2019. 346500, for this measure, I sincerely hope that this is only about the plan of increasing with the basis of the budget base, that it is not about increasing that everything is included as much as we plan to increase the number of newborn children because I sincerely hope that by that time we will find other reasons, or other ways to stimulate that part, and that this support will certainly be far greater at that moment because there will be far more children because this should be an indication that we have succeeded in these intentions. And once again, thank you to all who have supported this measure and I believe it will be brought. The HNS club also imitates this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39340	Thank you very much. The Republic will now have a distinguished representative, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39341	Thank you, Mrs. Makar, for your presentation, regarding the measure and the increase of funds for children who are certainly our priority, and as you said today in your statement, we are here for citizens in the Croatian Parliament, and you are coming from the town of Ludbreg, Varazdin County, a small beautiful town. The citizens of Ludbreg say it's the center of the world, I feel very comfortable there and you are there and you are here for the citizens who chose you from the city of Ludbreg. And I'm curious to see how you feel in the position of a representative from the city of Ludbrega where HDZ got 14% in these local elections, as a representative who will hold HDZ in power? What will your voters tell you when you return to the city of Ludbreg? Those 65% who voted this time... How will they react when Bozica Makar says she held Plenkovic in power? [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] That's what I'd be interested in as an agent,... Which interests the citizens of the city of Ludbreg, the citizens you represent here. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] 75% of people don't want you to support Plenkovic's government, and you'll raise your hand, tell us how you feel about, of course, the demographic image and the law here today on the agenda? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39342	Here you are, the distinguished representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39343	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I always feel happy when I can help the citizens. I'm proud to come from Ludbreg, where big care is being taken about children, and so far I've always tried to make it as good as possible and I don't care who it is, people are important to me, projects and to them to get better. Right now, if I go here where I'm gonna be, I'm gonna fight again. If it's going to be on my local board, it doesn't matter, people are important to me and that people live better, and everything else is irrelevant to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39344	The damage to the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238, paragraph 1, a colleague actually spoke about a topic that is not really the subject of today's debate by talking about the draft Law on maternity benefits and asking him to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39346	Thank you very much. Your Honor, that's why I warned my colleagues, Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras, you've done the same damage to the Rules of Procedure, what's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39347	Absolutely injured this part of the article related...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39348	.../Intruder Reiner: Which part of the article?./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39349	More of them, most of which is 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39350	.../Intruder Reiner: What item?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39351	The other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39352	.../Intruder Reiner: Second Article.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39353	My colleague just said that I hurt the Rules of Procedure, which is not true. I'm saying essentially what the core is. How are you gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39354	.../Intruder Reiner: So the second item tells you that you cannot speak without the approval of the Chairman./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39355	...Mrs. Bozica Makar goes back to Ludbreg where 75% of the citizens don't want Mr. Plenkovic and she's going to hold that government, which is basically the main...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39356	.../Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Maras, you say completely pointless things that have nothing to do with.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39357	It's pointless for you, what does 75% of the people of Ludbreg think?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39358	.../Intruder Reiner: no, no, it is pointless for me when you specify articles of the Rules of Procedure which do not refer to anything./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39359	Comrade Reiner, you probably don't experience the citizens of the Republic of Croatia at all because if you were experiencing it, you wouldn't behave like this...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39360	/Speakers don't understand.//.../Intruder Reiner: yes, you can go out and speak freely whatever you want... [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Maras, you can't de-polize with me and you know it very well.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39361	You won't tell me what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39362	.../Speakers don't understand. [[I will.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39363	You won't, you won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39364	.../Intruder Reiner: 'Cause I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39365	Don't be angry, you won't. You won't tell me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39366	Comrade Maras, you want me to force you out, right, so you can finally come back to the media?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39367	No, I wouldn't want to, but you're inclined to do it, so if you're inclined to do it, do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39368	I'm not going to fall for your provocations that you'd like to take a little prominence in your party where we know you're standing, and I'm not going to discuss it with you at all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39369	Mr. Vice President, it's not yours to comment on other parties. It's yours to lead the session. I'm asking you to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39370	I'm running a session, and if I were to run it as strictly as you should, you'd be out of this room, and that's what you're aware of. ... I see you want to come, you want to force your picture to be seen somewhere, but it won't work. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's something you'd like to point out by force, but you're not going to make it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39371	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Makar, in your debate, except that you supported and commended this measure, which I and most MPs here might even say, we all agree that the measure is really good, because it will help our mothers actually both parents to raise children in those first years when expenditures are actually very high so that I see each other, we all agree. What I would point out is it is very important that this measure is a lasting measure, that, if it were not for an occasional measure and that it is systematically planned, measures that will systematically help parents to raise children. Of course, with this measure, we cannot solve the problem of birth, there is a secretary of state who is an expert in this matter and in this area. I've listened to him a few times. The problem of Natalie can't be solved overnight, we're all very aware of that here. It can't be solved once or twice. This is a problem that will have to be dealt with systematically as it started, looked at from all sides and then found systematic solutions. As for what you said, it's to expect equal conditions to be created for everyone, of course we'd all like that. But it seems a little unrealistic to expect equal conditions for all children. We can expect it this way in the application of some measures that go from the ministries, but we know very well that neither we all live in the same areas of the Republic of Croatia nor our children, so we have no equal conditions at all. Let's start with treatment, where we have clinics in some major centres and cities. At smaller centers, we don't have that. Parents with children are simply forced to travel to larger centres to get specialist care, medical care for children, etc. So surely for a long time we will not have equal conditions for all children on all matters, but of course we should fight for it and therefore strive for it. Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39372	Thank you. The answer to the honourable MP, Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39373	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, I was talking about it because it's really my wish and goal for all children in Croatia to have equal conditions. I know there's a lot of things where you can't talk about hospitals, clinical centres. But as far as kindergarten is concerned, if she can't kindergarten, I can nanny. There's a lot of things you can do. And I think we have to go that way. School, one-way class. Well, where there are few children, it's easier to organize it, but that all children have equal conditions of child care. I know there's no money, but to stimulate it that way in the long run so that some things can be planned. This isn't a new law. This is the law that exists. It has now been about amendments, i.e. specific increases, and there are still some amendments that are in line with EU legislation, and this has been put in place. It's the law that exists. So all governments recognize this problem and all work on it and normally everyone has to work on it to improve. I said what my goal was and what my wish was. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39374	Thank you very much. And we have the last replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39375	Thank you very much, Reverend Macar. You spoke on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS although no one knows exactly what it means, you may have spoken on behalf of MPs A, perhaps also a Club of Representatives B. You performed on behalf of all and several times you mentioned the word honesty in your presentation. Here's what we're talking about is improvement, so demographic images and child rearing, and it would be really good to let's just say we teach kids honesty. It's one virtue to cherish your whole life. However, your club of MPs seems to be extremely unsuitable to teach someone honesty, because everything you've been saying in the last months, years and weeks, even days doesn't give away such a picture. In fact, a few days ago, you were saying something completely diametric contrary to what your party is saying today. And for that reason, calling for honesty and swearing in honesty from your mouth sounds extremely unworthy. I mean, I know you're going into a coalition with a party called Reliable but it still seems like it's just...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39376	... /Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Bunjac and you want to come to the front page. Is that your wish or what? I warn you not to speak of anything that is not a subject. The subject is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support. What you're saying has nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39377	At least a few times, she said that she truly believes and that she sincerely hopes. Well, here goes right now in the coalition with Mr. Chacic. Let him read what Mr. Cacic said about HNS three days ago or two weeks ago on the show "Buitsa" so that we can clarify this issue of honesty. That would be very nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39378	What does this have to do with parenting fees? So don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. I mean, it really doesn't make sense. You may want to imitate a colleague of Maras, don't go that way. I strongly advise you. No one appreciates it, least of all voters. There will be an honest representative, Makar, who will answer. But before he raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 238 was injured where the representative, Bunjac, was belittled and insulted by MP Makar. I'm sorry that this kind of politics from Mr. Maras and Mr. Bunjec, but obviously when you don't have the content, then you do things like this. It may be a shame for you to support yourself there for preventing a man from paying child's child's child's alimony. It may be a shame to you. And when you go and prevent deja tions, at least take care of it and see what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39380	That's why I warned my colleague that he'd left the topic. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39381	Thank you, Chairman. The representative injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure because he was talking about what was not the subject of the debate. Once again, I repeat my counsel at least repeatedly said that she truly believed and sincerely hoped, and as an agent, I had the right to doubt her honesty. That's all. No offense at all. There's a phonogram. If I said any offensive word, please state who it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39382	I warned you not to insult you, no offense, but because you left the topic despite the fact that I warned you to stick to the subject. But this response to the replica is a distinguished representative of Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39383	Yes, colleague, I spoke on behalf of the HNS Club, in which I believe there is no one who is against any good measure as it has ever been. And since the 1.7, 1330 kuna will get more of our mothers, or fathers who are in maternity care, that 665 kuna will receive those who are unemployed and care for children, we support it. And I spoke on behalf of the club, there's our president, who we consulted before we spoke. And all of this is your right to discuss, not to believe, I believe. And I honestly believe that this isn't enough, that there's a lot more to be done, that so far it's been made out of all governments something, that something good has been made out of this government, a lot of it bad, what we've already said, that a lot of things could have been done better in every government, and I'm going to fight for what I think is better. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39384	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, I will speak to the honourable representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39385	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers, Secretary of State. The HSS Club will support the adoption of this law and supports the urgency of passing this law, because the fact is that demographic opportunities, social opportunities suggest that this and, urgently, the adoption of these increases, that we are late with the same because we are getting smaller, which is the increasing number of deaths, the growing number of newborns and the growing number of emigrated from the Republic of Croatia, especially from Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, Podravina, Like, Dalmatian burns and other developed regions. Namely, parental benefits during the other 6 months leave after the birth of the child will increase for employed parents from current 2660 kuna to 3991 kuna, i.e. benefits for unemployed parents will increase from the current 1660 to 2328 kuna throughout the year of leave. And that follows the rise in the state budget in the coming years. All that sounds nice, an increase, 660 kuna for 665 for the third, for each third and the next child. Is it a support for parents and young families, to start marriage, to plan an increase in the family, to go towards the birth of a child, it is our opinion that it is good to increase compensation, but that it is too little to really motivate young people to decide on a family increase to a new child, because if we know that life costs are growing every day, that a large number of young people are unemployed, that they do not see the prospect in the Republic of Croatia, that a large number of marriages are difficult to marry, that in the first year of divorce, we are divorcing and that through demographic policies, through social and economic policies, we are not doing enough to motivate them to start a marriage, to go to planning the birth of a child and to increase in the family. As a percentage of the biggest increase in compensation will be felt by unemployed mothers, but what it means to them is how important and supportive and increased, can a couple, for example, where husband and wife work in Konzum, plan a family if we know that they are threatening the bankruptcy of Konzum and other companies within Agrokor and that we have not done enough to protect these jobs, and on the other hand, the problem of housing shortages, the problem of changing policies in terms of buying the first apartment, the problem of directing, which is growing on a daily basis by young people to start a family and to go to an increase in the family. Analysis shows that during parental leave the highest standard falls to the families of those parents whose incomes are between 3500 and 4000 kuna. Their incomes are too low to be able to save in advance a certain amount to fix the standard during maternity leave, and by falling compensation to 2660 kuna they practically remain without a third of their income. When it comes to higher education, and currently every third female employed between the ages of 25 and 34 has a college degree and will still be less on leave. It should be recalled that the fee of about 4000 kuna, as well as the current 2660 kuna, will not be universal and will continue to depend for everything on the parents' salaries on leave. Why does Croatia, or this government, which has since its beginnings, and now before its end or its new beginning, swear on demographic measures, do not fully share parental fees. Croatia is the only country that has limited the amount of compensation during maternity leave after the breakup of the former state, and the rest of the countries have maintained to date, the practice that according to which the family benefits of the employed woman equal to her salary for a full 12 months' leave. We have not done enough to protect the rights of mothers, we have not done enough to have a stable family, we have not done enough, and we have heard here that a political consensus is being sought, that all regions are developing equally, that everyone has equal living conditions, that every child deserves equal attention and that every child has a chance to go to kindergarten, that each child has preschool education and that every child has free textbooks in Croatia, and there are none of them because the Law on the financing of units of local (regional) self-government has been adopted, because through tax changes he takes income to municipalities, cities and counties and it is impossible for small municipalities to finance and co-finance textbooks such as in Zagreb, Rijeka or some other developed environments. Who's to blame? So are we here at the Croatian Parliament and the Government and the Ministry. And it takes an ordinary political consensus that really every child has the same chance in the Republic of Croatia. It was interesting yesterday in a radio show where this topic was discussed and there was an excerpt from a girl named Pauline P. who pointed out that there was a student in her class who was constantly warned that he was messy, that he hadn't brought all the things to school, that he hadn't done his homework. And this friend of hers invited her to his house one day and she saw that he and his two other brothers were alone, that one brother was constantly paying, that another was making a mess around the house, and he was complaining that unfortunately they were alone because his parents had to work and they didn't have enough to live and that he didn't have a job written and that he was messy and that he didn't take all the stuff to school. This is our reality in these few young people, and what is the situation with the unemployed, what is the situation in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem where the highest risk of poverty is. What about the project "Slavonia", which is with new jobs, which is with support in agriculture, which is with European money because there is no competition, the municipality's chiefs are named here, they have ready projects, and there are no competitions, the money stands in Brussels or perhaps in the accounts of our ministries, as is the case with support for local action groups. And yet no regulation has been adopted that the funds they were granted could be placed on the ground by all civil society associations in their territory. So, let's wake up... an emergency and we need to bring these increases by emergency procedure, but it's urgent to take other measures and we need to get serious and pass laws that would improve the quality of life throughout the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39386	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Mark Veschigay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39387	Thank you, Vice President. Here is colleague Vlaović, you mentioned in your presentation this problem of low fiscal capacity of local self-government units that are greatly reflected in the preschool education services themselves, and I think that the task of all of us representatives here in the Croatian Parliament is, in particular, us who come from local self-government as much as possible to the new Law on the financing of local self-government units. Of course, I believe that the competent ministry will also influence that preschool education is certainly particularly valuable, that it is particularly valuable and that a model is found for preschool education where additional funds will be given to local units. If that's not going to be the case then given how much this government takes on demographics as it takes on education, then I recommend that the state take on preschool education because preschool education today is not the same as it was in preschool education some 30 years ago. We know how many kids went to kindergarten then, and how many kids go to kindergarten today. In addition, we have EU recommendations, we have targets from Barcelona as early as 2001, which say children in kindergartens should be increased that 33% to 6 years of age should come to about 90% even if I'm not mistaken. It's all good that we do, of course, and we give subsidies, we subsidize transportation, we scholarship students. I also personally come from the city that despite the small original incomes that have five cities in Croatia it is the town of Pregrad by the allocations for, of course, if we are looking at extraordinary incomes by the separations for education and education. But that's not enough. When I compare myself to neighbouring Slovenia, and I come from the border area, they unfortunately look like a spaceship to us in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39388	Thank you. The distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39389	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, I fully agree with you that it must cease to be a practice to come down from the state level to units of local and regional self-government and, on the other hand, not to provide sources of income and resources to implement these measures. And when it comes to children, then really every child in each area of the Republic of Croatia should have equal conditions. And often the eyes are aimed at parents, as well as arrows towards the mayors of small towns, that why in Zagreb children can have free textbooks and quality kindergartens and quality financing of the transportation of pupils, and we cannot do so in our municipality. I think it must finally go to European practice that part of the funds that are paid into the state budget allocated to the financing of municipalities, cities and counties especially for these decentralised functions must be 20, 30% as it is in the northern European countries, and not as much as it is now 7, 8%. And those 7.8% that stand out have to go with quality programs and projects to pray from door to door for ministers and ministries. It seems more important to be a minister than to have a child and a quality education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39390	Thank you. We will now move to individual debates and the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In Croatia, demographic disaster is increasingly obvious, these are facts, which are mainly indicators in most of Croatia except for larger cities and suburban settlements where a number of people are held because they have some kind of infrastructure enough to live on. Every dotted change and this one is welcome and should be supported. This is essentially a dotted change. We politicians, mostly the previous ones who used to call for an economy, for numerous developments, but without people, there is no economic development, no economic, no population policy, no demographic renewal of our areas that are now empty, no progress and no economic progress whatsoever. However, as we observe here in 2015, we see that 16 thousand people died more in Croatia, 16702 people died more than they were born. This is one terrible indicator with 18000 more evicted than emigrated to the Republic of Croatia, which means one city of 35,000 people in one year has disappeared in our territory of the Republic of Croatia, and these are meaning trends that no longer stop. For what? Because the central state has its decentralised functions physically towards the county, according to local self-government, but obviously this is not evenly well done, not well done. So it takes the whole strategy so that certain areas can be refurbished demographically because it is unreasonable that examples of cities far away from the city of Split today do not have water supply and the river Cetina and other rivers, Jadro, are a few kilometers from these settlements. Therefore, our policy, which has been led in the Republic of Croatia, aside from calling for young people to live, and life is all in these areas, and we do not have that life, means that they were the wrong policies, that we have to change the strategy. I visited several schools in the Trill area a few days ago, in Vrgorak, Sinjski which were literally full of children, these are beautiful parts of us, where they are not far from Split but because of traffic incoherence, because these local self-governments do not have the ability to provide funds for free kindergartens, the possibility of having kindergartens at all, the free transportation of students to schools that are quite remote and no one takes care of them and the basic means of life for people in those areas, of course, that people go either to Split or to Zagreb, and the worst that happens with the whole family, they go to other countries. Before, so in the '60s, in the '70s, fathers were leaving my neighborhoods, going to Germany, but families stayed, and children would be born, and family members would live there. But now there's another problem, now we have a much bigger problem. Now the whole family's leaving. So we have completely empty areas. The point of these changes and it's commendable to this law, but it doesn't solve essentially the problem. You can't live in a village where there's no or a place that's beautiful, that has even living conditions and the development of livestock and agriculture, so that's one whole problem that needs to be analysed as soon as possible. Well, I'm watching here, just the Dalmatian Zagora. The land of property about 20 years ago was 25 years old, it has 50,000 inhabitants now 20 years old. The Vrhorak area had over 12,000, now slightly more than 5,000. The Cetina province had 70,000 now has about 450,000 inhabitants. The Drišni end of the war is the most affected, but it is the burned country, there is no life, and life and young families are the ones that will encourage and develop these parts and the survival of people in these areas. But we can't just look at it with point changes. If we have a law in 2014 that has been passed on regional development, i.e. The indexation where numerous municipalities and regions have fallen out of undeveloped areas is essentially no longer encouraged by monetaryity. So it was an unfair law, so it takes a lot more studio to survive those ends. We need to observe, mostly speak Lika, Dalmatia Zagora, Gorski kotar, islands, Slavonia, except for a few cities I say Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and few surroundings we have no more people. Two-thirds of Croatia are empty. There's nothing left for us but here, I don't know what to do with this country that's beautiful, which is the most beautiful piece of land... in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's the fact that there's no more pay at the maternity home. I'm looking at the sonic birthplace, I'm looking at other birthplaces, if this trend continues, there'll be no more people running the alka, because the Sinjans have to run the alco, how many people are moving out. And so in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia, it means that it's the wrong strategy, it's the wrong policy. What is good should be supported and commended. The ministry's proposal is good, but it's not enough if all the ministries don't get involved, unless there's a strategy mainly towards underdeveloped areas, because people have no reason to live there anymore. I just invite them to stay here, that... but I cannot organize my diet to have kindergarten, to have free textbooks, and in Zagreb they have free textbooks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So where's the Constitution? What's this Constitution for? It's a violation of the Constitution, equality, the rights of every child, every man, every person. Of course, the health services that are organized in this area for children, for older ones, are also vital for children. If no health care is provided for the child, of course that family will find it difficult to survive. There are no jobs, and most of all it hurts me that these areas don't have water supplies in households. So who will live without water supply in the 21st century? Depending on the firemen's tanks, helping people. It is very difficult to survive in these areas, so the state needs better control of any decentralised assets that descends towards the counties. We have a problem with having a number of natural resources, numerous tourist potentials in these areas that we can make better use of and hire these people in these areas. These people are forgotten. I can't just serve you as an example. to make these ends exploit some foreigners, such as wind power plants. I'm looking at the silky wind power plants, and these villages are below empty. How many countries i.e. Very little picks? They're picking up the ones Mr. Vrdoljak made possible by that law and the former government to pick up. So these funds or examples, Peruca, Peru Lake, Europe's largest water pool, they want that thermal power plant and all the villages around are empty, we're still going to pollute that drinking water resource as the largest resource. So we have huge potential in undeveloped areas, we have huge potential and on islands, we have in the Gorski kotar, we have in Slavonia, but it's sad that as a man, when I sit in a car, when I see these villages which, next to my villages, I drive or go to those villages to see that there are no cattle, there is no life, no children's wages, and the schools are ruined. So I'm going to take a picture once, so I'm going to send it to the Ministry of Education, all those numerous schools where it used to be full of meanings for a dozen grades. Today they're literally empty, collapsed roof. If it does not mean strategy, only these dotted changes do not solve this problem. I have here statistics per year as the demographic picture of Croatia falls and how we become essentially an empty area. And we know that there's a nation village going on because of the wars down in Asia and Africa, that because of these wars, that the village of epic proportions was. There's already been a huge wave going by, so we had... The crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're leaving empty areas, so here's when I'm driving in the car, when I'm heading towards Sinj towards my house from Zagreb, so you all have to notice there's no more life, no more cattle. That's right in Slavonia, so it's all over the area. This is a serious demographic problem. What is good should be supported, however, where there are no health services, where there are no kindergartens, where we do not have the same conditions as in Zagreb free textbooks. On the contrary, in these parts there should be better conditions than in Zagreb, encouraging much better conditions to survive people. In these areas, we should encourage people to survive free textbooks and better healthcare, better organised emergency assistance. Because when something happens with a child, it takes three hours for an ambulance to wait. So we need to make a number of strategic, numerous strategies where we can help our people survive in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39392	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first to have a respected representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39393	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Bulj, unfortunately I have to agree with you that in fact our villages and rural areas are disappearing and that people are mostly going to bigger cities. Of course, it's because of the politics of someone else other than here's the maternity benefits and some other stuff. And that's clear to me, people go to big cities, they have bigger opportunities, they have bigger jobs. However, here I can agree with you in that part that we must have one Strategy of Demographic Policy, so here I use that there is also our Madam Minister who has decided in part or in most of it, and here in the Assembly there is a lot of leaders of local self-government units and I will say what I see from my perspective which is the problem. Local self-government units can influence the policy clearly of their units and in a way that keeps people in their area in such a way that here they co-finance the price of kindergartens, pay for schoolboys' transportation, pay for the living room which is ours according to the law, to give free books. It's all something that local self-government units can do for their locals. But I'm gonna ask you if we can do it. Here is the specific co-financing of kindergartens in my municipality, and one of the largest in Croatia is 15% of the total budget, 15%. It is still much less than it is in the city of Zagreb. My parents always say, so here is the city of Zagreb co-financed kindergarten so that parents pay 300 kuna. When we look at the percentage, I'm sure my community or here's my fellow municipalities or cities outnumber a much larger percentage. However, this scale given to us by the city of Zagreb, Split or Osijek in absolute terms exceeds our possibilities. Can we, in absolute terms, give the grant to kindergartens as much as the city of Zagreb can? We can't. And clearly, then people go to Zagreb or tell us that their subsidisation is much, much bigger. There's a problem. We would have to level the criteria that Zagreb cannot give so much more subsidies than other municipalities and cities that have no opportunities, especially free textbooks. They're showing off, I'd say, you're boasting. No problem everything can, and then we have high criteria that we can't meet. Excuse me for a little too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39394	Thank you. The reply to the replica, please welcome the Honorable Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39395	My colleague, I would agree with you that and that is the problem that many local self-governments cannot, regardless of giving their entire budget, cannot allow free textbooks. But the fact is that this policy, so if we have a Constitution, if we call for equality, and mainly for children, there is a wrong policy and policies that have so far been solely because we even have a textbook here if we catch up with textbooks, we have a problem that we have more publishers and even every year the textbooks have changed. And that's what it's affected. So you can find the elements. I know it's a free market, but do they have all the municipalities' options? They don't. And that's why people move out. Well, I don't believe there's any money. If the decentralised funds go to the county, if we have natural resources, here I speak for my county, if we have beaches, if we have port administrations where the ports are managed and if that money is not charged as a triba, i.e. We don't use natural resources or mineral raw materials I don't know in your local self-government, if it suits someone that money could have been directed. Let me tell you, on beaches and ports in Split-Dalmatia County, someone draws a two billion kuna concession. For 2 billion kunas in all of Croatia, primary school students could have free textbooks. I'm talking about a part of the coast. So we have the opportunity to arrange our country, that our natural resources, I only said on one thing that we have free textbooks, but it is unfortunate that in Zagreb children have. I'm glad they have other places. There's a state-level regulator and there's a state-run sea with counties, because then the county has no purpose anymore. They must take care of even development, they do not care about even development. And therefore either the tribune to shut them down or to serve what is intended. If we don't have two-ways, we have counties as a regulator for the entire areas of decentralised funds to be the same conditions, especially for children and powerless ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39396	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39397	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to tell my colleague Miri Bulu that the cause of demographic and any other breakdown in our country is that our society suffers from a lasting unemployment and credit crisis. The problem is related to CNB policy. And unfortunately, Mr. Bulj, the Bridge does not go after monetary reform, that the Central Bank directly finance the central state, nor asks to abolish the currency clause on loans, nor has it sought etc., etc. And we can talk here for days, weeks, months, years and decades, but negative demographics and all the other processes will continue, and colleagues from the CNS who are now in the coalition with HDZ, and they are not interested in monetary reform, which means that society will continue to suffer from impunity, credit crisis and will be hit by the top and evicted. And you're going to say that you went to the coalition with HDZ for the sake of general good, and those of the CNS are saying the same thing now and they assure all of us, and they all know it's a lie, as you yourself actually knew it was a lie. And unfortunately, it's not your fault, but the people, unfortunately, are too stupid to understand the role of the Central Bank and why the macro-level loans are not repayable and why it's important for them and therefore supports the policy that leads him to disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39398	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj. But I have to say, I'm not sure the people will accept that very well, to say that the people are stupid. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39399	Comrade Pernar, the people have been manipulated countless times, and as far as the CNB is concerned, we have even given amendments to the law only in 17 on the CNB, 17 in the second reading of the MPs accepted it. As for the National Bank and its position on the National Bank, what he did about the bonds, raised and criminal application 21.4. against Boris Vujčić and seven deputy governors, means well-founded, therefore it is not a question, whether or not the Bridge can, but the structures that allowed the sale of 15 tonnes of gold, and none of the people asked. Those 15 tons of gold were the owners of the people, each individual. We are a state without gold, but on this topic of demographic policy is a disaster. Croatia today, Mr. Pernar, I live in these parts. Two-thirds of Croatia are empty, you live in Zagreb, you are a city boy and you are very little, less famous, how people live in these areas, without water in their houses, water supply. Where their tanks, if there are no tanks, no firefighters, no place to drink water, they can't bathe their children. Very hard people live, but close to Split, about 15 kilometers or close to larger cities and of course, in these conditions people can't live, and let alone free textbooks, like some kind of job or an incentive to cattle, there is no such thing. The state is centralized, according to a similar structure, this is decentralized and thus is held in essentially by the government. The more dependent people on social welfare, the more power survives. So here it wasn't interest, economic development, demographic development, but the creation of addicts, so that we could control them and mainly to vote for them, and that's visible in areas where 100% turnout is, where the most underdeveloped and always vote for the same political option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39400	And the last individual debate is the distinguished representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39401	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, we are pleased to say that we finally have one amendment and an addition to the law that we all agreed on and that this is a commendable change and that it will certainly be the most joyful young families who look forward to increasing their support with impatience. If this were really just a piece in the mosaic, I'd like to confirm by example my work. In fact, we all have to make a contribution, and we cannot expect only this ministry to do so, so that everything is excluded and only from the state budget. Namely, units of local self-government can really do a lot, someone will say the city of Vodice has its financial opportunities better than other cities and municipalities and there they can agree, but surely there are many cities and municipalities that have income per capital per capita and higher than Vodice, and they did not do all that we did. I've been mayor of the city of Vodice for 12 years, probably as a woman and as a mother of three, I've given priority to these projects. When I got here, I found a kindergarten that worked from eight to one. Now we have a whole day's stay, we have a nursery, next to the elementary kindergarten two still in the village, a playground on the island of Prvic, a kindergarten in Zalej, in the construction, that is, the documentation for the construction of a new kindergarten and sweet care that every year regardless of these new capacities, we have an increasing number of children who can't be taken care of in our kindergartens, so if parents are responsible for doing so in the neighbouring Tribunj or the town of Sibenik, we pay for the whole part. So participation would be like they're in Vodice. There's a lot of investment in and out for sports, cultural and similar associations, all of what we're doing, here's an indicator of great progress, we've also got the status of City of Friends of Children recently. We didn't have a pediatrician in Vodice, and now we have that service. Of course, we also pay one-time cash as well as most of the cities and municipalities now, free kindergartens for families of four and more children, free transportation for families with three and more children. Furthermore, there were five scholarship students, now up to one, one student who met the requirements under our rule, a scholarship was made available, and that counts about 46 scholarship students at the moment. When it comes to books, all those who apply and receive the full amount they need to obtain school books. In today's debate on the acquisition of school books, I don't think it's right that those colleagues who raised their hands for the state budget, who didn't propose an amendment to obtain school books to either primary school or high school students to talk about it now. So at the time when the budget is brought, then it's time for the amendment to be made, to say how much funds it is, from which items should be downloaded in order to place it on the item and then we can talk further and criticise it on the subject. Furthermore, we heard even from an earlier government official who was in charge of this portfolio that local self-government units are not easy and that almost every child should be able to be taken care of in kindergarten. As chairman of the Assembly Committee on Regional Development and Eu Funds, I should say that it is unfortunate that the earlier government, when it negotiated projects that will be financed from the Eu Funds, simply forgot about the facilities of social purposes whether it is nursing homes or kindergartens, so that we can get funds from eu funds to edit thematic routes of cycling paths, not kindergartens. It's very, very sad and I think it's a big, big failure of negotiators and previous governments. The garden can only be done, I suppose what a colleague will replicate, the kindergarten can be done in settlements of up to 5,000 inhabitants, meaning from the Rural Development programme, but in a settlement like Vodice you can't do a kindergarten without counting both the nursing home, the firehouse and everything else. Here's an appeal to all of us at every level to take a step forward and do something that really young families would decide as easily as possible on another child so that our young families wouldn't leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39402	Thank you. We have a few replicas. She is a well-respected representative of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39403	Dear colleagues. I would once again like to draw attention to one category that we have kind of forgotten, and we have forgotten enough to say about mothers of children with severe developmental disturbances that we did not foresee a significant increase. And once again, I hope that you, in that sense, will support that because it is about mothers staying with children until the eighth year of their lives where they are still with this 5% increase that is about 200 kuna and still unable to reconcile all that these children need. Most often, those who are not in large urban centres do not have access to institutions where these children should be rehabilitated, and they themselves cannot return to the world of work and are therefore forced for a long time after that eighth year of life to seek ways to resolve their existence further. Sometimes this fee is the only source of income for them, and otherwise, if those children with severe illnesses are complaining about their benefits, it means for those children if they file a complaint after their first degree appeal is denied they lose all rights and wait for a second-degree solution and they have no right to do so, which is another problem for those families who usually live in difficult existential problems, which is also pointed out by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, but we did not implement it here except that 5% that we increased what is really very, very little, so please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39404	Here's an answer from the distinguished representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39405	Well, thank you very much. I'm sure the Minister will respect your suggestions. I don't think any MP in this House is as much in favour of people with disabilities as our colleague Ljubica, and I believe that your proposals will be positively accepted by both our club and, of course, the ministry's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39406	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39407	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. Of course you have found that we have already heard more than once today that this measure has shown by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it is systematically concerned about the needs of our citizens. However, what I was interested in all of what you stated was that in your city during your time as mayor you were made to care for the youngest since the construction of kindergartens onward, it would now be interesting to do an analysis of how much this affected the increase in birth rate. Why do I say that? Because I am convinced that only economic measures will not solve the problem of birth. We in the state can only talk about it and talk is not enough this measure, it's not this much money, I'm convinced that even though these measures are twice as big and we're not going to solve the problem of birth anymore. I think it's much deeper that we need to get our family back to the center of value in society because my late grandmother lived in Slavonia on earth and had six children, lived much harder and much poorer, and we all know that it's not always the problem of birth only the issue of economic strength because many rich countries have and are struggling with the same problem. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39408	The answer to the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39409	Well, thank you very much. Well, fellow Jelkovac, I just said that Vodice has sweet concerns. Before we had only a kindergarten, now we have two other areas in the village itself, we have a playground on the island of Prvic in the hinterland we have a kindergarten and we also have to pay kindergartens in the town of Sibenik and in the municipality of Tribunj for both employed parents who, of course, fit the big waiting list. We're forced to go to a new kindergarten as soon as possible. When it comes to child-bearing benefits, they show us that we have over 10 to 15% more reported each year. So this really helps with everything that it gives and what it will give in the future of the state shows that we are on a good path, but it is all insufficient and we need to do much, much more work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39410	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Branka, here's the truth that the former SDP government has not co-financed kindergartens in its term. It is not true, did I in my municipality make a kindergarten with the help of European funds. Maybe you thought those units couldn't have been with more than five thousand residents. Well, my unit has more than 5,000 residents, too, so... Twelve thousand more than your 8800s, but the place where the kindergarten worked was below five thousand inhabitants. That's what I still have to deny you. I know how much you've done for the quality of life in your Vodice, and that's for every praise, but we need what I've said to my colleague Bulju before, and here I'm using the opportunity when there's a minister here, we need to level the criteria. Let's just say one thing that seems extremely unfair, free books. The city of Zagreb gives free books and that is it for all its students. I think the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should all have the same rights, especially our children. So let the ministry take care of free textbooks or set a criterion, a social criterion that students who are in poorer property get free books, but not to be a rich municipality or a rich city gives free of charge, and that poor municipality that cannot afford its locals or children should not go to school. I think that we should make one common criterion and that all our children are in the same position to go to school free of charge as they are schooled, but let them all have either free or no one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39412	The answer to the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39413	I said that in settlements, I probably misrepresented myself, but in settlements of up to 5,000 inhabitants, it's possible to build a kindergarten with European funds, but in settlements above five thousand of what we're in Vodice, not only the city, but only the settlement is over eight thousand inhabitants and it can't be worked. When you mentioned the city of Zagreb should also point out that there is a 18% discount, I do not know how much you have, and this is certainly a huge income from which the mayor can propose to his congregation and funding textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39414	Thank you very much. That would conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote of course when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39415	We now move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 145. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity and parental support. Please vote. I find that, unanimously with 122 votes, the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on maternity and parental support has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39416	CONTINUATION AT 15.00 HOURS Dear colleagues, we continue the plenary session with the agenda point: 4. Final proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 142. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204, 206, Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered by dispatch to the Assembly, the contributions to the report are not multiplied, but are on the website of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, the applicant's proposal to also discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, was adopted. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, you received reports at the session. The amendments were also submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation. Dear State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture Ms. Marija Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39417	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives, the proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act, create a general legislative framework in the field of marine fisheries, with the aim of direct application of the relevant EU regulations. The main objective of the adoption of the new Maritime Fisheries Act is to set up a legal framework for the implementation of the reformed common fisheries policy of the EU, to improve the competitiveness of Croatian fisheries, to ensure its sustainability in the social economic sense and to ensure responsible management of the natural resources of the sea. The Common Fisheries Policy was reformed in 2013 and changes were then made to rules related to the management and protection of renewable biological resources of the sea. The new developments relate to the alignment with the new control regime involving the introduction of serious infringements, the landing obligation, the establishment of a scale system, the management of the fishing capacity and the organisation of the common market. The law lays down at national level the objectives of fisheries policy, the management and protection of renewable natural resources of the sea, the methods and conditions of fishing, the collection and handling of data, the management of the fishing fleet, the competent authorities for the implementation of support in fisheries and market management, the competent authorities and the way in which the inspection is carried out, and other relevant questions for marine fisheries. The law also lays down a framework for the successful implementation of the fishing and fisheries operational programme of the Republic of Croatia, in the period 2014 to 2020, for the adoption of annual data collection plans, annual fisheries management plans, which are significant mechanisms that the Republic of Croatia must adopt and implement under the Common Fisheries Policy of the EU in accordance with Regulation 1380 on the Common Fisheries Policy of 2013. In order to protect biological wealth of the sea, the law contains a framework for the adoption of a series of technical measures to regulate fishing, as well as for the protection of certain areas of the fishing sea and specific habitats. It prescribes conditions for fishing, and introduces measures to prevent pollution of the sea and endanger biological resources of the sea. In the part of the fishing fee, taking into account that the natural resources of the sea fall within national resources, the law introduces the possibility of making available the quantities of catches per vessel which may not be longer than 10 years at one time. The law regulates categories of fishing, economic fishing, small coastal fishing, sports and recreational fishing, fishing for scientific purposes, fishing tourism and fishing for the needs of aquariums. As regards the implementation of economic fisheries, the law lays down conditions for the implementation of economic fisheries, conditions and methods of issue, as well as the facilities, benefits for the implementation of economic fisheries at sea, the storage of benefits and the way in which the benefits are taken, the benefits of State ownership, the cases of suspension of the validity of the advantage, the conditions for the acquisition of the status of highly qualified persons for the performance of economic fisheries and the authorised fishing gears in economic fisheries. In the part relating to small coastal fishing, the law prescribes the conditions and manner of small coastal fishing, maximum allowable quantity of catches, conditions and method of placing caught fish on the market, allowable fishing tools, way of granting benefits, way of confiscation of benefits, way of abolishing benefits, cases of termination of validity and conditions for gaining the status of a highly qualified person to carry out small coastal fishing. The law prescribes a way of performing sports and recreational fishing, a maximum quantity of catches which can also be achieved and the tools allowed to be used through this category, and spins forms and how to issue a licence. The law introduces categories of special licences, which have been included in the basic authorisation by the current legislative framework. Furthermore, the law transposes the provisions of the applicable Maritime Fisheries Act, which regulate fishing tourism as an economic category, the way in which fishing tourism can be granted and the way in which fishing tourism is authorised, in the part relating to the management of the fishing fleet, changes relating to the availability of capacities are introduced. This is a significant paper compared to the existing legal framework, aimed at exploiting capacity up to the maximum permitted capacity limit of the fishing fleet of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of the common fisheries policy. The law also prescribes a way of keeping records in catch, landing and storage of fish, and a way to carry out the same. It prescribes the form, manner of keeping and delivering records, bringing about changes in the conditions of carrying out the first sale of fish and other marine organisms, and is subject to obligations when transporting and weighing fishery products, which has a positive impact on the determination of traceability and consumer protection. The law transposes the provisions of the applicable law which prescribe inspection oversight of the implementation of all provisions, the conditions which inspectors must satisfy to demonstrate their official properties, powers, rights and obligations and the rights and obligations of persons subject to inspection. In the part of the criminal provisions with a view to harmonising with European legislation at national level, this proposal introduces the concept of serious infringements, lists the offences considered to be serious within the meaning of this law and discusses the application of criteria for the determination of serious infringements depending on the type of infringements and depending on the number of recurrences of such offences. It is a significant newspaper compared to the existing legal framework. We also propose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure because by adopting it, we reject the launch of an EU pilot relating to the absence of a criminal credit system, which is an ex-ante condition for the continuation of the use of an operational programme for fisheries and maritime fisheries of the Republic of Croatia in the period 2014-2020. In addition to an open EU pilot alerting the Republic of Croatia to the absence of a criminal credit system, an additional reason for the adoption of this emergency law is an open breach of European law, and for the purpose of establishing a system of recreational licences in accordance with EU legislation, more specifically the Internal Market Services Directive, as well as the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. The Legislative Committee has tabled amendments to Articles 3, 5, 87 and 88 of the Law relating to the correction of the nomotechnical statement and the erasure of excess provisions in the law, and the applicant accepts such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39418	I would like to thank the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Ms. Maria Vukkovic, for this explanation. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague's resignation. Thank you very much. We have a replica of the exhibit, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39419	Here we are talking about the Fisheries Act and the fact is that this is only adapting to EU directives and entering the EU, the fact that our fishermen absolutely can't do anything about Italian fishing fleets that are allowed to do what they want, to hunt our fish and then, of course, sell on our market and, of course, that these pre-accession negotiations and European directives were then unanimously adopted here in this House, they favored the Italian fleets that pollute us, the Italian fleets that hunt fish, which destroy both flora and fauna because they are huge ships and tankers that destroy both the sea and our fish. Therefore, all of these laws have been to the detriment of our fishermen and we see since we entered the EU that our fishing fleets literally do not exist, nor are they allowed to function at least equally with foreign fleets doing what they want to do. And not only that, but ZERP allows this present one, we must urgently bring an exclusive economic belt to protect the submarine and our flora and fauna, and the Fishing Fund is the Italians destroying whatever they arrive for us. I'm often with our fishermen and I know what I'm talking about and where they are. Only the inspection laws apply to our fishermen, our police and our inspection absolutely to the Italians can't do anything. And that fish in our Adriatic, those Italians are selling in the tourist season and earning huge money at the expense of our fishermen, our people. This is ours, and it was a service favor when we join the EU of Italians and other foreign fleets, and we must declare an exclusive economic belt to protect our funds and our fishermen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39420	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. The reply to the replica is Ms. Marija Vuckovic's State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39421	Thank you very much. Here, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj, I am pleased to inform you that, after several months of bilateral talks and negotiations, we have succeeded in reaching the first three-year agreement with the Italian side on the protection of the Apple. The agreement was confirmed by rules on both Italian and Croatian sides ten days ago. Croatian inspectors are also licensed at the same time as European inspectors and they control the protected eco-fishing belt. The rules applicable to all EU Member States apply to Croatia. Our fishing inspections are controlled by internal waters, territorial seas, protected eco-fishing belts, and also by the operational programme for maritime and fisheries in this segment in inspection of control and control, automation of drones in training inspectors in obtaining international certificates etc. 37m euros will be invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39422	I thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. The next replica is the distinguished colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39423	... They keep warning the fishermen of the North Adriatic, it's practically a ban on fishing for small blue fish for the entire Kvarner and for most of Istria, and that I come to the situation that Italians who don't have poachers, hunt our fish, hunt our fish in the Piran Bay and then sell it to us throughout our hunting grounds and then buy that blue fish. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Srdela has been a foster mother for centuries and for our citizens as the cheapest food and inhabitants of Croatia by the sea, but also to fishermen who have lived from it, and we think we absolutely need to consider maps, maps, fishing permits because the entire area of the northern Adriatic is unfairly closed for small fish fishing. Also, you know that behind the Long Island to move your heart, and probably regardless, you're still looking at where it's going, but since we haven't clearly set ourselves up and we don't have a ZERP, and I hope that no matter what the Most came out, Mr. Plenkovic will have the strength to go back to the question of ZERP. We're practically an incubator for Italians and Italian fishermen at night when you watch, practically, the Adriatic is flooded with their lights and our fishermen can't fish, we're just an incubator for them. I think that's where you need to be more active, because this quota that's managed in some way to stop because what you're supposed to be is 60,000 as much as said, 60,000 tons of anchovies and grizzly for a few countries, that's just what we can catch in our Adriatic Sea, but without the Italians. So much more active these 3 years are actually just one period for you to be more active towards the whole story, and the other appeal for fishermen from the northern Adriatic is constantly present, so these maps must also be a little more evenly distributed, not just to be areas in the middle Adriatic area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39424	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Answered State Secretary Marija Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39425	Thank you very much. Respected representatives of Strenja-Linić, Fisheries Directorate, the agriculture ministry started with an initiative to ban Italian fishermen from catching fish in the northern zone of ZERP. I would also like to say about the prohibited zones of fishing effort limits and similar issues, they are primarily determined by scientific studies carried out every few years. We also sample from each fishing zone, to determine which fish is caught, which is the size, how much fish stocks are threatened, whether it is the first and second generations and still advocates limiting fishing effort in terms of the spatial time limit, and we are opposed to introducing a quota for small blue fish in the Adriatic, which according to current, which according to recent scientific studies and some data from international organisations and also the relevant EU administration directorates is very endangered, it is a very endangered stock. As for the danger of introducing a quota by species of small blue fish for Croatia, it has been removed by the Ministry of Agriculture's efforts this year, but the EU has not given up on its years of application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39426	I thank you for your response to the distinguished colleague, State Secretary Maria Vukkovic. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Law or the Committee on Agriculture perhaps want to take the floor? Here you are, dear colleague Domagoj Hajduković, Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 16th session held on 7 June 2017, he discussed the proposal for a Law on Marine Fisheries with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Croatian Parliament to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 04 May this year. The Agriculture Committee shall be in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held a debate on the proposed law as the home working body. The opening argument came from a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, noting that this law harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The law will allow responsible exploitation and management of fishing capacity in accordance with the current state of the sea's renewable wealth and allow for control and supervision to be carried out in accordance with EU rules. In addition to the above, the aim of lawmaking is to contribute to the sustainability and development of coastal and island communities. The law regulates areas of economic fishing, small coastal fishing, sports and recreational fishing. At national level, the objectives of the fisheries policy, the management and protection of renewable biological resources of the sea, the methods and conditions of fishing, data collection and their availability of fishing fleet management, the competent authorities for the implementation of support in fisheries, the regulation of the market and the issues relevant to marine fisheries are established. Changes in the management of the fishing fleet shall be introduced in the section relating to the availability of capacities aimed at exploiting capacity up to the maximum permitted capacity limit of the fishing fleet of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of the common fisheries policy. In the debate, the president pointed out that the law lays down the need to identify the use of traditional fishing gears, and that the same issue will be regulated by the Implementing Rules. After the debate was held, the Committee on Agriculture voted unanimously with 9 votes in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Marine Fisheries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39428	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's the Law on Marine Fisheries is certainly an important law for all those who live on the sea and on the sea, and all those who live by the sea were bound by it, for fishing, to survive as an important economic branch that helped survive the inhabitants who lived by the sea. So this law and all the laws concerning these issues are important for people living at sea and by the sea. The fish was a coastal fosterer, angrily fostered by the population, the marine population, so that any law making is important for those inhabitants. The tradition of fishing is how much life is present by the sea and from the experienced heritage was taught, fished and lived by the sea. A whole period practically hundreds of years ago, and before that, there have been irregularities in legislation, fisheries and we who are a little older remember before the creation of the Croatian state that it has practically fished without a large legislative framework, i.e. they have been very loose laws. So that each introduction of new legislative activities touches the so-called so-called legislative activities. Rights acquired, and rights acquired are always problematic when something is regulated by law. And surely, in that sense, there have been objections throughout the past period through the lawmaking. Although fishing work is said to be in the fisherman's wet underpants, so bloody is the life of fishermen, it's hard to earn. But we must be aware that many people have lived on fishing and that this legislation and everything we introduce with these amendments and additions to the law, that is, this law concerns many coastal inhabitants. So we need to find a way, with everything regulated, to find ways to help our fishermen and to be competitive, even in the game in which we are in this new legislation. Surely there is a need to pay attention and find ways to and through European funds, perhaps not this ministry, but this ministry and the Ministry of Regional Development must also find ways to help our fishermen. And all those involved in fishing help them compete on European funds and write European projects and work on these European projects. This law is, therefore, a harmonisation with the EU, so in this sense some things are already in place. But it is certainly important that this law gives fishing strategic importance in the Republic of Croatia and that this should be respected and that this fact should help our fishermen. The objectives of the fisheries policy, the way of management, the protection of renewable biological resources of the sea, the way and conditions of fishing, the collection of data, the management of the same fishing fleet and the competent authorities for the implementation of support in fisheries and the regulation of the market are also very important issues for the development of fisheries. But everything here is important that the law sets out frameworks for the adoption of an operational programme without which there would be no competition on EU quality funds, so I welcome both the adoption of this law and all of you who have worked to pass this law. There are several important areas in the law, but this is also important for the performance of sports recreational fishing, as well as these maximum quantities of catch that can be achieved, the tools that are allowed for these categories of fishing. The non-economic fishing category of the law transposes the provisions of the applicable Maritime Fisheries Act which regulates fishing for scientific and educational purposes and fishing for the purposes of aquariums. It is also very important that scientific and teaching activities give importance and that through this law and that part is resolved. It is also important here to regulate fishing tourism as an important branch that will certainly give many a source of income as an economic category and a way of issuing authorisation for fishing tourism. In the law relating to the management of the fishing fleet, these changes relating to the availability of capacities are important, meaning professional access to this problem and the newspaper relevant to the existing legal framework, which are normally aimed at exploiting capacity to the maximum limits of the capacity of the fishing fleet of the Republic of Croatia. So that's also defined in this way, and there's also a way of keeping catch records, landing in fish storage, and a way to carry out the same. The conditions and formats of the management and delivery of the records shall be prescribed and amendments shall be made to the conditions of the first sale of fish shall be made. So complete records and running the entire process from capture to catch regulation, landing, storage is regulated by this law. It is very important to prescribe inspection and to implement all the provisions, the conditions that inspectors must satisfy their official properties and powers, rights and obligations as well as the rights and obligations subject to inspection supervision. So these are all important newspapers compared to the existing legal framework and are certainly one of the key obligations of the Republic of Croatia as members of the EU. In the law itself, if we look at some articles of the law, all of this is regulated. I'm no language expert, but I don't understand this name. It kind of turns out that someone is privileged, and these are actually permits as far as I understand the essence of the spirit of the law, so maybe a little rough sounds like a privilege. Because when he hears that it's a privilege, it turns out that fishermen are particularly privileged. Maybe it's part of a professional termology that I'm not an expert on, so I'm building on. But somehow this sounds bad to me when we give a whole series of articles here, and it's said to refer to benefits. It is very important, and here I congratulate the lawmaker, that when adopting regulations that are even more important than the law itself is necessary, you have made a commitment that the ministry must also obtain the scientific and professional opinion of all legal persons registered for sea research activities. And it is particularly important that you have foreseen in the law itself what is constantly sought, which is constantly required by all the laws that all professional associations and associations of fishermen and chambers and the ministry responsible for the tasks of nature protection and associations and associations of nature protection. So all relevant factors that have an interest and are interested in this area that before the regulation is passed, because we often pass laws and then by sublegal acts, or regulations, all of this is regulated in one other way, where neither the Parliament, nor the public, may have so much influence, so here it is very important that you mentioned it in Article 12, and I welcome it as one good thing that was done in this law. Also, in the field of vocational training for the performance of economic fisheries, the basic things are listed here, only a little, I did not understand, this in the case of professional training itself, you say that professional training will prove to be a belief of the professional competence to carry out economic fishing, and then in paragraph 2 of this Article, the assurance of economic fishing will be issued to the person who passed the test according to the programme, a programme that will be clearly defined by law or passed by a college that includes the area of fishing for the 5, 6 and 7 degree of education. Now I don't know if it's a high level of education, otherwise it's a high professional cook, meaning it's a high, higher professional cook, which means we're putting into a ranking belief that economic fishing with some academic titles, is that it or did I misread how you predicted it here. I think that, throughout history, we have had our own experienced fishing, meaning hereditaryly, passed on from father to son, knowledge and experience, and that was the whole science. People didn't go, normally to some special schools for that, certainly they need to fix it, but I think we need to be flexible there, and that this professional training must be acceptable so that people don't reject it, that they don't have to because of any red tape or any professional training to get out of that job. Also, in Article 24, I would like an explanation for this small fishing advantage, it said, if the fishing authorisation holder does not submit a catch report for more than 6 months in continuity. I think it was good to turn small coastal fishing, people who deal with small coastal fishing, turn you into administrators. It's not a primary activity, it's important for people and that small coastal fishing comes to life, but I don't know if this is too tight for an authorisation to benefit from small coastal fishing, if it doesn't deliver a report for six months, then it goes rigorously towards it. Also, with what I've said about the benefits, it doesn't sound like a word to me here when I'm talking about the latest issue of sports fishing licenses at sea and recreational fishing, then using the term sales. Issuing and selling licenses. I know that this license is being paid, and logically, it's always been paid, but it's a little bit of my ears that name and all sorts of licenses, it's being sold, and now we're constantly using that term of sale to be issued and sold, it kind of turns out to be a market, not a license, but I'm saying maybe I'm not in some professional terminology that's how it works. Also in Article 34, the competition, the first item, says a competition in sports fishing must not be held without a solution to the approval of conditions of competition in sport fishing at sea, which is requested by the organisation of the competition by the ministry. Well then, in the following paragraphs, you said that this competition in sport fishing will be organised according to the calendar of competitions brought by the alliance, that is logical, when it is brought to plan competitions, but there should be, you said and that you would transfer powers to some other bodies, but it would not be logical for the ministry to issue approvals for competitions or any competition other than this calendar. It's logical, I don't know, that there's a competition calendar a year, but now if there's any extraordinary competition, it's going so hard that the ministry needs to be delivered, this one, to deliver those approvals. Here's another time I'd like to commend the draft of the Marine Fisheries Act and these few topics, a few of the dilemmas I've had, I'd like to make a sense of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39430	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Sanader for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39431	Comrade Sanader, the fact is that this law is essentially just a alignment with European directives, when we have sold our seas Servantly and put it in the hands of the Italians to master our fishing and to essentially reduce our fishing fund as much as they need it and to hunt it as much as they need it. Neither us nor the ministry lady nor her team can influence this in any way. We did not fall when we entered the EU, which was not publicly spoken about what will happen to Croatian fishermen, that fish, means to us, will be hunted by Italians and other foreign fleets, which will destroy our flora, fauna, underground, because I repeat, a fishing town Italian has a stronger fleet than our fishermen. And they do what they want. Here we need courage, but this must not, pro-European now prime minister, is an exclusive economic belt and it is our sea, our fish, our fishermen, and it is difficult not to call on our fishermen, and they do not have the same rights as the Italian fishermen who rob our fish, and they have allowed policies when we enter the Parliament, when, unanimously in the EU, this Parliament, unanimously supported the EU, and not, taking revenge on the problems of the national interests of our fishermen, our difficult and our peasants. This was just copying any and the orders that the lady here was now quoting and saying, this absolutely has nothing to do with the lawmaker. This is an EU order from Brussels, ask Plenkovic when you see him, whether this is an order or this is a directive. He is a representative of the pro-European policy as at the time of Ivo Sanader, when an economically exclusive belt was passed and then annulled by this parliament. It was a shame and then there was high treason and against the interests of our fishermen and national interests, and this is exclusively a document prescribed, in line with the European Directive what foreign masters command us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39432	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. The answer to my esteemed colleague Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39433	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, I would not agree with you. I am no servant to anyone, and I will never accept that I am a servant to anyone, and at least as you say the EU. We are the EU, we have always been the EU and this people, you have the right, it is your right to be against, I did not vote when it was but now I support it and I believe that we must be part of the EU, that we cannot be imprisoned, that we cannot be isolated from the EU because then it would push us safely somewhere where we did not want to be. Why we fought not to be there, which is the Balkans and other associations, so that he would disagree with you there. And there were negotiations, we could say that something might have been negotiated, and if we had a bad negotiation, we could say what was wrong with the negotiations and look back at it. We are today an equal member of the EU and these are not orders, these are directives brought by both our members and our representatives in the European Parliament and our representatives in the European Commission. If we have objections, then we can express them through our representatives in the European Parliament and ask for changes to some of the laws that we possibly consider to be inappropriate. What Italian fleets are stronger than ours, I said to my performance, we need to look for ways to help our fishermen, not a declarative cry we are for fishermen, but to look for a way through legislation, through our ministries to help us bring European funds, help to extract funds from European funds, and surely these are our national interests. And these stories of high treason and national interests are empty stories. We can specifically, we need to discuss here specifically, concrete examples of concrete laws, and that is our responsibility. We're European agents, we're not bar people. We have to make concrete remarks here on what we think is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39434	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Nicole Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39435	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Sanader. It was moving to listen to your presentation on the protection of fishermen and how you repeat those nice phrases about how we should do everything to protect fishermen. What is a fact, I am not against the EU as my colleague Bulj, but I am against one approach that does not put Croatian interests first. What is the biggest problem is the protection of this fish fund which is not properly protected by the Italian fleet, which from various other threats to the use of some tools or perhaps should go in the direction of the prohibition of fishing in certain areas. Kola Bulj was not present at the negotiations between him, he mentioned this exclusively and the economic belt, was not present at the negotiations between HDZ and MOST and the biggest opposition was exactly an exclusive economic belt, and most of all was opposed by current Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, and support for the MOST's request to declare the exclusive economic belt was given by today's foreign minister and Deputy Prime Minister Davor Ivo Stier. And those negotiations were very painful and very difficult because of the Prime Minister's attitude that we should not come into conflict with our neighbours. It is a failed policy, a policy in which the prime minister only looks at his future position in the European Commission bodies and does not look at the interests of the Republic of Croatia. The government has reached a conclusion in which some negotiations will be launched, but from that we still have nothing, and we will not be representatives from the cafe, but we will strongly demand that an exclusive economic belt be declared here, and then we will see you who are so movingly talking about fishermen if you will support it. You will not, but you will nod your head as you have always nodded the great leaders so far in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39436	I thank my esteemed colleague for the replica. An esteemed colleague, Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Gromo. The words you were, you had a chance for two years almost, a year and a half you could have run all that, there were no obstacles, you didn't put it in those terms or those seven conditions you had, you could have put it on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39438	Dear colleagues, I am really asking you not to enter your colleague Sanader's word as he speaks because no one has entered you and please allow him to complete the answer to your replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39439	So you could have raised the question of the economic belt as well as everything you thought was wrong. I said once again, we are an equal member of the EU, we have our representatives in the European Parliament, through our representatives, I don't know if you have ever contacted them, have ever run or been interested in how you can change it or through your representatives, our representatives of the Euro MPs could have started to change any of the laws that are in the EU or the directive and that's why I told you and Mr Bulj your predecessor, and I didn't insult you, we are not here in the cafe, but we are in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian Assembly we can start initiatives and laws. Your insult to the prime minister to comment on us because it is your culture, and he certainly is not fighting for the interests of the European Commission, but is fighting for Croatian interests and through his work in the European Parliament he has shown now as prime minister and while he was a member of the EU Parliament to fight for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39440	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader for his reply. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39441	Article 238 where my colleague Sanader persistently insults the parliamentary deputies to... from the cafe. Mr. Sanader, I was an 18-year-old Croatian soldier, and when I was 19, I went to the Homeland War, so you tell me where you were if I was from the cafe. I'm an ordinary man, and if you insult me, you won't, otherwise you've been a nonstop servant and subject to those who led this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39442	Mr. Bulj, the term from the cafe as I heard it, and heard the entire Croatian public introduced your fellow sitting, and he didn't mean anyone personally if we're going to deal with who insulted whom, there are more elements for insults in your presentations than with others. So I don't think that this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you, based on the Rules of Procedure, are a colleague of Boric, please have the right to object to the committee of directors. We're moving on. The next replica, distinguished counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Sanader, these European laws may, when we are discussing the EU, be not only worse for the Croatian public but also for all here, repeat what the EU is and what Croatia has committed to by entering the EU, so what is the directive, as it is adopted, where it is brought, which is the White Paper, the Green Paper, etc. I don't think it would hurt anyone to do it again. But I wanted to tell you about your exposure to a few things that I agree with and which I would like to supplement. So when we talk about the strategic importance of fishing for the Republic of Croatia, I absolutely agree with you, but it would be happier and we had announcements from the Ministry, I hope that, in this part, it will continue, in the development of the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture, among other things, and the development of fisheries. So, without one strategic document that she would follow our legislative initiative, we can discuss here the strategic importance of fishing, but in which direction it is we want them, we can and we want to develop, that's another thing. What worries me too is the use of traditional fishing tools. So this is already something that we have had problems with, which perhaps we have not clearly articulated in our negotiations on EU accession, and which should be further underlined and highlighted. So, the legislators told us that it would be regulated by additional or sublegislative acts, it would not be regulated by law, I would be happier if we introduced it into the law, so to show the Union, but also to law some traditional fishing tools that are extremely important to what we have talked about and what is one of the points of this law, which is the sustainability of the development of coastal and especially island communities, because many of our fishermen use traditional tools that are not necessarily recognised in the EU, and we simply need to fix it. And of course, as far as protecting the fish fund is concerned, we can talk about what, how, when and where and how much, but in every shift towards protection is a shift ahead, if you ask me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39444	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39445	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I agree with you in part of your presentation, it is clear that we have our specificities and that if something is missed in the negotiations or here in the legislation, if there are certain specificities, then we can do so through the amendments, through here, through the talks with the secretary of state and with the people responsible for fishing, it should be pointed out and such things are certainly not against it, because what was the subject of previous replicas, we have not entered the EU by force, we have entered voluntarily, we support it, we want to be part of that society and the legislation adopted at EU level is certainly legislation that seeks to satisfy all EU members. And so with our legislation, and this law that we are currently passing, for some details, it is safe and specificity that this law should be put in place to protect its fishermen and to find ways that our fleet can be competitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39446	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader for his reply. Next to the replica was reported by distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39447	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Sanader and I at HSS and I agree that this law should be passed precisely because of what you said, to be a tool of the Republic of Croatia, to help our fishermen, to develop fisheries and island populations and the people living in the coast. However, it is an impression, and you have often said in the relations in your speech that in the adoption of laws, especially in the adoption of regulations, sublaws are not sufficiently communicating with the domicile population, with fishermen, with their associations, so here I am also appealing to it because they also come from the field to object that they had no information about any laws or rules on making it that it is too late when it is already announced that it is then being corrected and brought again. And secondly, I would like to point out that our MEPs have often expressed disdain that they do not have enough information about the position of the Republic of Croatia on important issues, would only remind us of the adoption, the harmonisation of EU directives when there were some new varieties, the seeds of GMOs, that we had a abstention, so it is just another proof that we are not communicating enough, that we do not have a firm position and that then we are passing on some things that are not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic. And here I look forward to the announced thematic meeting of the Committee on Agriculture on freshwater fisheries and aquaculture because there is an even bigger problem and we need to protect these people who are dealing with freshwater fish, and in particular help the population living along the Sava, Drava or Danube River to allow them to also be able to fish and live on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39448	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic. The answer to my esteemed colleague Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39449	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Vlaovic, I agree with you, or you with me about this because I have mentioned it now, I believe it is too important that one who is concerned with these laws is the most why these laws are passed and who will work under these laws that they must, must be heard by their voice. There is also the responsibility of our representatives, that we, too, in contact with these people on the ground, with associations, interesting fishing chambers, hear their voice and here in this House, make our contribution through proposals, amendments and additions to the law. The same goes for our Euro-representers, as you mentioned, we are responsible for filling them with our observations, suggestions, and also for the European Parliament to pass laws that will suit us. If we are not working here, if we are dealing with the declaration and we are just talking about talking and not making concrete remarks, proposals, to our Euro-representers, then we cannot expect the right solutions from the European Parliament to come from the European Parliament. It's like us here, if we don't hear the voice of our base, then we can't give a amendment or we can talk about this metrically. And even more so, we have to go through our committees because we have our committees where we can invite these representatives of the interested public, or associations, chambers in this case of fishermen who need to give us their observations so that we don't have to have permanent amendments to the law as much as possible. Here's our responsibility, and that's where I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39450	I thank my colleague Sanader for his reply. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Domagoj Hajduković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39451	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would then start my debate with this particular problem that we have touched, which is the problem of European legislation, which is our impact on it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wanted to discuss this under the next item. It is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hunting Law, but unfortunately we have some communication problems when we talk about the communication of this High House and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, our relations are regulated by the Law on the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in particular on the adoption of opinions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Council of Ministers, therefore in the EU. And our House as the most representative body in the Republic of Croatia has the right to supplement or change those opinions. Unfortunately, often because of the slowness of our administration, we get these opinions from a post-festum, or after our government has already made those views known to the Council of Ministers. What's going on? On Thursdays, it's usually the government's session. The government then adopts an opinion that will represent before the European Commission. In theory, all working bodies can discuss this especially parent bodies and even the plenary of the Croatian Parliament. But when do we get those opinions? On Thursday, the government voted them, they were given Monday by the European Affairs Committee, which then depends on when it was received during the day Tuesday or Wednesday, to the home working bodies most often too late. So, these things need to be changed. Of course, there is an official part of the communication that must go through the manual departments, through the Office of Presidents of Parliament, etc. But I think that because of the efficiency of our debates, because of the efficiency of what this House is doing and the way that it can affect our views in the EU should speed it up. So informally when the government adopts, for example, a position that will represent agriculture to leave it to the Committee on Agriculture, which can then react. So, colleagues and colleagues who are having problems noting what our government will represent at the Council of Ministers or the EU. But let's go back to the law in question. So, on the strategic importance of fishing, I don't think there's too much to discuss, and my colleague Sanader said a lot about it. The economic activity of fishing, so I would say now here and tourism activity influences our tourism both directly and indirectly, so it is extremely important also because of the traditional way of living of certain communities on our coast and especially islands, but also of the economic activity of our citizens living in this area. So I wouldn't be too long on that. What we would be happy about, as I said in my replica, is that in due course there is also a strategy for the development of agriculture, a strategy for the development of fisheries, so that we can think about our important branches of the economy, and that, accordingly, we can also discuss the legal acts that will result from this strategy. I think our best example is this education development strategy, which should then have received all the concrete laws that would follow the outlined objectives of the strategy. I believe that, in fact, I hope that we will think so both in agriculture and in fisheries, in particular, and that we can then specifically discuss how we will achieve a specific goal, whether we agree with the methods of achieving that same goal and what would possibly be the most effective ways for the Republic of Croatia to reach the stated target. I'm afraid until we have clear goals, until we have a clear vision of it that way we can't discuss it. The objectives of this law, which are mainly in line with European legislation, are clear. Thus, setting the objectives of fisheries policy stresses the strategic importance of fishing in the Republic of Croatia. I think that's something we can all agree on. But I'd stick to the parts that I think would require some clarifications. My colleague Sanader was looking for someone before me, too. I'd ask for an extra one, too. Therefore, in addition to setting out the frameworks for the adoption of an operational programme for fisheries, fisheries management plans, annual data collection plans, etc. He regulates a whole series of other things. For example, the management of the fishing fleet. Now, there are some things here, and now forgive me, perhaps as a Slavonian, which I am interested in because it is said that there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget for implementation. But I am interested in any additional means that will have to be provided by our fishermen. And what does that mean exactly? We can welcome stricter measures to preserve fish streams. I absolutely agree with all the colleagues who discussed ours. The fisheries fund should be protected, i.e. the fish fund should be managed responsibly and as much as possible to protect the interests of both the Republic of Croatia and our fishermen. Of course, we need to think in the EU frameworks, we cannot behave perhaps as we would like. We must play by the rules of the Union that we ourselves have accepted, but in certain contexts we need to protect them. However, the obligation to install a VMS device and the obligation to e-label and send data from the fishing eyewitnesses, inspection and landing declarations and for vessels whose length is less than 12 m. I am particularly interested in what it will mean for our fisherman who manages vessels less than 12 m. So does this represent a specific financial cost for them? What it does and how much it affects their competitiveness on the market, and we talked a lot about our fishermen' competitiveness, and how it will ultimately affect their business. Fisheries is what we said is extremely important for the survival of coastal, coastal and island communities. I'd put that special emphasis on island communities. We talk a lot about the depopulation of the island, that the island communities should be protected, that there should be an extra one, I wouldn't say the perks but instinctive so-called. that the people on the islands remain, that they move to the island, thus protecting the sustainability of the development of the island's environments is extremely important. And that's where I come in, which is where we've already had our problems. These are traditional fishing tools, which are mainly used in island communities, which are traditional when we talk about fishing, whose fishing is not necessarily just a source of economic activity, although it is important, but can also be the source of tourist redecoration and every other life on the island. The legislator in this case said that sublegislative acts would regulate the use of traditional tools, unfortunately, we did not make it clear enough when we joined the EU, so we had some problems with that. I will remind you of initiatives that also had our own European representatives, specifically Tonino Picula, who was just based on island communities, the preservation of the same and the preservation of the traditional way of fishing in those communities. I'd be a lot happier if you just prescribed it at the legal level, at least declaratively. Why am I saying that? I think that this would give us additional weight and our commitment to preserving this way of fishing, our commitment to preserving the traditional fisheries of these communities, and in some ways protect them further, our coastal, or island communities in their traditional way of fishing, but also in their traditional setting, that is, the lives of those communities. This is a criticism of the law, as he mentioned by his colleague Sanader, of the sublaws of this House has no influence, so I prescribe it to the ministry as such. We would like to be more involved here, if not as a prey of the Parliament, then at least as a Committee on Agriculture, and in any case we would like to be informed and perhaps, I would say so and consulted in the adoption of these acts, and all in order that if we already regulate it by sublegal means, these sublegal acts would be as high-quality as possible, to protect our island communities and to ultimately have a better document and a better rule that will really help our island communities. Finally, as for the protection of the fish fund, of course, we can welcome any initiative in that direction. We will, of course, also as the Committee on Agriculture and as all the interested representatives of which many come from the coastal and island communities, follow this, how the ministry refers to this, but what should be taken at national level, therefore, not only from the Ministry of Agriculture, and from the Ministry of Demographic Reconstruction, from a whole series of other ministries is one strategic approach to solving the problem of depopulation and island communities, coastal communities, and in the same way as in the best way, economically and in each other, safeguarding this very community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39452	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a esteemed colleague, Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39453	Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, that in your discussion you mentioned and in some ways we can conclude that life on the island is relatively difficult, it is not easy and that we all have to make sure that as few people leave the island as possible. What you mentioned in your debate is traditional tools. I am personally used by these traditional fishing tools, primarily because we have not defined it in the best way possible towards the EU, and of course also in the law. The use of these traditional tools is extremely important for the survival of island communities. We know that the island communities, unfortunately extinct, often have problems because of this European regulation, would be happy to see some changes, some shortcomings that exist to move away and that some new good things are introduced into and better regulated by law, which, of course, because of the growth of the economy itself, and of course because of tourism. Of course, all of this is to make it much easier for our fishermen to carry out that activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39454	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Habek for his reply to the replica, Honored counterpart Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39455	Thank you, dear colleague Habek, for this replica. I absolutely agree, namely life on the islands has its own, I would say, a unique set of challenges and it's someone who hasn't lived on the island, who hasn't spent much time on the island and I'm saying it out of season, just can't figure it out. So these are challenges that aren't just demographics, they're social, economical, logistics, each other. So, these communities absolutely need to be helped by traditional fishing, except that it is a source of economic recovery for these communities, it can be a source of tourism, therefore additional added value. Because there are specialities that Croatian fishermen have, so Croatia can offer as an additional part of its tourist offer. It's absolutely something to look after. Especially because, while safeguarding that tradition, we also protect our island communities. I said more, that I would like this to be actually this part of the law, at least declaratively, but here's also in the debate on both the parent committee and this plenary debate I believe that the proposer has heard enough arguments that, in some future additions of the law, we are considering this possibility and also that when you bring the rules, we are consulted, you are asking us to be the voice of our islanders who have something to say about this problem, and all in order to solve this problem as best possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39456	I thank you for your response to Honored colleague Hajdukovic. And another replica of distinguished colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39457	A colleague, Hajdukovic, would also stick to this problem of the island community. The laws we pass and the laws that come should not result in the departure of the island community and when we are discussing the so-called so-called island community. The traditional way of life, you should always be aware, that even when it comes to the island community, that fishing is necessarily the very type of life, the island community, and that all the laws we are discussing are to try to discuss in the way of a paradigm, let's say desertion. Will the laws lead to us deserting from life or will lead to life deserting from these laws. If it's going both ways, we're not on the right track. That is why it is good that in all laws we have this reconciled, that we do not view traditional life as something that is going away and disappearing, but something that needs to be preserved and something that has proved to be valuable in the historical, life-long, existential context, and that is certainly fishing when it comes to island communities and coastal communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39458	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetić, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39459	Thank you very much. My colleague, what I can say, unfortunately, is island communities are not the only communities facing the problem of depopulation. You can go to Slavonian villages that have no problem as an island community of isolation of traffic connections and so on, which you let go. Every other house is practically empty in most Slavonian villages. This is part of, unfortunately, a bigger, deeper problem that we will not prevent by discussing the Law on Marine Fisheries, but through a whole set of laws and measures that we need to adopt not only us as the Croatian Parliament but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But what I can agree with when you speak, I might not call it so rudely deserting, it has little to do with such a high - treasonous sound, but traditional twists in general, so I would then count perhaps fishing, certainly, not only as a cultural heritage, although there is also an important element, but also as a way of further redecorating especially by speaking about tourism. So we can agree that we have huge tourist capital and capacity. Our traditional crafts in this case traditional fishing can only be of additional value to that. Because I bet a lot of fishermen would love to see our specialities about it. And I think that Croatia as one of the unique Mediterranean countries with a very divorced coast, with a very rich tradition of fishing there certainly has something to offer. This is what needs to be kept, which should be encouraged in the light of the light and the preservation of coastal and island communities, but also in light of the possible added value of our economic activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39460	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for his reply to the replica. We're moving on to the next debate individually. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39461	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a proposal for a sea fishing law with a final proposal. The fact that it is one of the greatest resources and potentials is our sea where we have a fish fund, where we have our islands, our salaries, our people we need to keep, and we have fewer and of course it should be all for the purpose of these people and the survival of those people on the islands and in the coast. But it's a fact like we gave the fish i.e. our fish fleet fund by foreign, we have not been prepared to enter the EU, not as you said some say I am against Europe, not I am a European, but I am against Croatia's service to the EU. We did not protect the strategic interests, we did not protect the Croatian man on the island and in the coast, so we gave the fish to foreign fleets because they were much more equipped mainly with Italians, so we have in the trade chains in Croatia our fish caught in our sea only packed in Italy or now in some company in Croatia where they only repack our fish, and the foreign fleet earns and foreigners earn on our good God-given dates. And that's why the islands are empty, and that's why young people stay because we haven't sovereignly protected our interest in joining the EU. That's the problem. It is not a question of whether you are for the EU or against the EU but rather a matter of protecting the sovereign good governance of the good Republic of Croatia, which is our sea, our country, our land. So as they have the sacrifice of those people who have lived on fishing, they now have their wages on concessions to give to whom they have no thought, nor do they have any profit. Fish, fish, and fish funds to foreigners, what do I have for those people who live here on islands that we want to keep living off of all that? They don't have anything. They have only tear to the eye when their children go to other countries, the whole family because they can't use the potential that we have to give to God, and we've given as an example the fish fund to Italian fleets, and there we need to have the strength of the exclusive economic belt is what the Croatian state has to do with, that is international maritime law as well as other states, we have this right and we need the right to take advantage of it. All the other directives that were brought under pressure as they were arrested, located, transferred and then can't do that, so you can't have an economic belt, that this pressure was on the way to the EU where the most loyal sons were in prisons, and we had to give them our treasure. And our treasure is where our people must use, meaning the good and potential our islanders must use and our people living in the coast. And we have not given into the hands of others and proudly in this House at this time voted unanimously in the EU, changing the law that there should not be 50% plus one citizen in the referendum but less than 50% to be able to come out to make the referendum valid. When road asphalting is debated in one village, there must be a referendum in the village of 50+1. So illegally, the people were deceived against the will because in the debates, they weren't said that the Italians would be able to do whatever they wanted and their fishing fleets. So they didn't occupy us or win us a war. The Croatian people won the war where they defended us. Neither in World War II nor in the first nor during the Turks, nor in the Homeland War when we were all unique and unitedly protected the Croatian state. Therefore, our greatest problem is to protect our welfare because of these islanders. This is all that lies in the sea of the sea, both on the sea and on the islands. And our marine well-being and our fishing, our fish, our fish fund, and not we've allowed them to do whatever they want, so unfortunately these islands are empty, it's unfortunate that those ports that are on our coast of local self-government have absolutely nothing from the beaches, absolutely nothing. Political elites are allowed here to receive these beaches, the key to the story is the Golden War or an example of Makarska where they concreteize as much as they want. And whatever he wants. Without the limit of maritime goods, without anything, the lota comes, goes out of Zagreb, targets those cashews, blasts, and concreteizes our marine well-being, and it destroys our environment, our coast, our fish fund. Who gave it to them for the right? We're talking fog here, we're talking fog, we can rip out these papers. Now we have Italian fleets that are huge, which have such nets, such a system, that they submerge us down weapons, weapons of submersibles, ours. Oru, uncontrollable. They wash their oil tanks, stains are created at sea, fish stocks are destroyed, and all for the benefit of foreigners, there is no man on the island, there is no use. You can go to these people, but it's very important that our people, the residents, don't catch two fish, they can't have one sport fishing, that our people will be punished, of course, and the muscles are shown, but when it comes to defending people, when it comes to defending our natural resources that we have to protect for future generations, because it's not our fish that the Italians are after, it's fish for us, but for future generations. We allowed them to go to the European officials in Brussels to do whatever they wanted from our sea and our fish fund, that's the problem. That is why we must be unique here, to protect our economic exclusive belt, to protect the exclusive economic belt in the sea, mainly our submarine, so do you know how much not only the fish fund, but our cultural good comes out without control because it's not protected below, various amphora and various cultural goods that are located in the sea, are coming out and sold to expensive foreigners who know where. Because we haven't protected it, we haven't protected absolutely anything here, we're talking about our heavy, our fisherman who we'll punish if we catch him fishing fish because it's not like time and there's no foreign fleet now in our submarine, and for them there's no desolation, desolation and ecological and flora were destroyed and the fish picked us up, which is why we have to insist with the Prime Minister from Brussels, Mr. Plenkovic, how my colleague Brkić knew how to speak to Mr. Milanović, the Brussels Zoki, yes, Zoki, so at our Brussels Prime Minister, we would have to influence now to rise, not to exclude the economic belt and protect our man, because it's our good and our future generations, otherwise it will take us all to the stone, to the bare stone, not to our beach, not to the Golden War, not to the concession in Split, not to the concession in Zadar, not to the Vir, but to the Vir. And we're that body, we're that body that we have to decide about, and I hope that we will fight for our good to be used for future generations, and not that the Italians are giving us a complete fish catch, destroying the fund and selling it on our drawers in tourism and we, the Croatian man, have no profit at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39462	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first to appear for replica was the esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bulj, you were talking about catching Italian carts in our Adriatic, this one, I read an analysis somewhere that in Croatia currently around 10,000 people are working in the fish-processing industry, and that by capacity in the Adriatic Sea, that the number should be about 30,000, so it turns out that we give 20,000 jobs to the Italian state, so if you can comment on those figures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39464	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for the replica. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39465	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Sladolev, that the fact is what they do, in the fish-processing industry that it is a very small number, very important companies that have been on our islands and coasts, which have been processed by fish, and it has been taken over by mostly foreign investors who have opened up or their plants on our coast, islands or somewhere in the hinterland where they employ our women at a very low price, mostly women's labour where they work in very difficult conditions and I know from their neighborhoods, and those of our potentials have been once very good, very good people professional, competent, it is essentially either by privatising destroyed or robbed gypsies, of course and have been favored by someone else and again by our women because in the conditions in which these women, in the fish-processing industry, in the fish-processing industry, are catastrophic. And the price of their workforce is even worse. Therefore, our potential is our sea, everything there is in the sea, and what is in the underground and above. It's ours and we have to protect it, it's the obligation of our parliamentary representatives, not that our fish is caught in our sea, packed and the profit is sold to foreigners in chains here as their product. Our fish, to the detriment of the islanders, to the damage of the people living in the coast, to the damage of the entire Republic of Croatia, because it is the resource and potential on which we, in fact, have to build and preserve our fishing capacities and everything we have at sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39466	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next to the replica reported by a respected colleague, Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39467	Dear colleague Bulj, here you are talking about many of the problems Croatian fishing has, you were talking about the economic belt. I must admit that in most of yours, in the vast majority of your debate, I agree personally. But I'll give you one question. You've had two years of chances, you've been in the government, just please don't give me the ball back, just answer me straight. You had a chance in the government of Mr. Oreshkovic, you had a chance now as you said during the prime minister from Brussels, Mr. Plenkovic. We must protect our seas and fisheries, that it is our duty to represent us. I'm curious that you as a representative in those two years, in which way you made some concrete proposal on how to protect fishing, which were your proposals other than criticism. Now critics after you've left the government are being kicked out of you, but I'm personally wondering if you're as an agent who, of course, calls... Of course, we need to protect and do our best to protect both fishing and all other economic branches, and everything else is protected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm interested in what you as a representative and as a member of the MOST party have done in the two years of the authorities you've been acting to make this state that you've stated is bad, and of course there are problems and how, how would these problems be solved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39468	I thank my esteemed colleague Habek for his replica. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39469	Thank you very much. For one thing, for a year and a half, two governments lasted. So three months, four were the first and she was the technical government and since the appointments were election cycles. It's three months now. So somewhere in total about five months. And what I was just saying, I was saying when I was also in the ruling majority. And I didn't support a lot of things, and this is what I said about the fishing fleet and the EU. You must know that the exclusive economic belt was one of the conditions to be implemented within two years, exclusively the economic belt and it was supported by Mr Stier as he said that part, and Mr Plenkovic cannot, because it is much more important for him to be President of the Council of the European Union. I talked about this in person in a last-minute meeting that was terribly short. You can't say two years when it's real for a year and a half, now it's a year and a half, because in the first month, the government was appointed the first government last year. So it was a very short period of a few months. She was a technical government. After that there were elections and now it's two, three months now you see it was the same as it was at the Croatian National Bank. First all changes to the law are in the first reading, so are you, and in the second reading, no one accepted 17 parliamentary deputies. Therefore, we are talking here about the problem that has been brought into the EU by the exclusive economic belt. Then the law changes together, all unanimously here in the Parliament, changes the law to join the EU, to be 50% less, a 50% exit enough for a referendum. That was illegal, against constitutional. You know what I And these people didn't know anything about this happening to the fishermen, the weights or the peasants in Slavonia. So you know during this time here's your Minister of Jacob's what happened in Slavonia around the O.P.G.? We had a very short period of time, we had nothing to justify and I said the same things and even because of similar things, I didn't support the budget despite being a part of the majority I didn't vote for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39470	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39471	Col. Bulj, although this is your presentation of more and more historical and social contextualisation of the problem of marine fisheries and borderline going into an area I would call a warning manifesto, I agree with the fact that these warnings are necessary, that these warnings are necessary to say and need to be addressed because they are about fishing and the fish fund as a reality that is limited. It is not inexhaustible, and it is very important who will manage it for both purpose and purpose. That's why I'm saying, even though it's about historical social contextualization, I think it's necessary to consider that everything that's going on is going on for some purpose and purpose, and that purpose is always more important than the object itself. So if this is about taking care of demographics, lifestyle, people or the Croatian economy, then the mechanisms that we will manage will be right for us and for that purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39472	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetić, for the replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39473	Comrade Vučetić, the goal is to keep people in these areas and to use these resources, I think you said that, that people should be at the service of those who live there and not exclusively for profit and some others. So what God gave us, he gave us the sea and in the sea he gave us resources, potentials through the fish fund, through the sea, through various aspects of beaches, ports. These are the potentials, the capacities that must be used by this population to survive, and in us it is the other way around. In us where people should be, residents have no use for it and move out of these areas. And absolutely neither they as a community local, nor as individuals benefit except certain interest groups that use these potentials and resources that we have in the sea or in the coast what they have god-given from these parts you come absolutely these residents do not benefit. And the worst part is that people have to move entire families out of those parts, and these are the most potent areas and the biggest resources of natural potentials for the development of the sea, the beach, the binding tourism, the fish fund. So, a number of potentials, but we absolutely see that it's the other way around. What's the other way around? It's politics, servant politics, courtship. It's not a sovereign policy where we have to protect our man regardless of Brussels. Brussels is looking at its interest, lobbys fishing, these, oil and these are looking at their interests. What is interested in the beach War and investment rather than throw a deck chair and charge for it, and that the man who lives cannot bathe has no right to come to the beach. So that potential and resources must be in the service of the man in the area to survive, that's the first. And the profits of the entire Croatian community are important but only first, so until the survival of that man in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39474	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. And another replica, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, you mentioned the government of Zoran Milanovic, you mentioned Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. I just want to tell you a few facts. So, the news that was carried out on 26.3.2014 says and quotes: “In the framework of an operational programme for fisheries accepted at last week's session of the Government, companies dealing with the development of marine or freshwater aquaculture, there is an opportunity to provide support of 60% of the cost of investment in the expansion of production. The operational programme is worth 66 million kuna, and it is in line with the European Commission, said Agriculture Minister Jakovina."I will skip one piece and I will tell you next. Fishing, together with the related processing industry, is a significant part of and exports of food products, the total amount in 2011, be careful in 2011, when we talk about the year when the crisis was, was worth $178.5 million. In the end of 38 thousand 493 tons of fish. 15 significant export products are blue tuna mating, salty inchoon, cans of sred, fresh lubin and fresh anchovies. So if we're talking about these 2011 figures, I honestly believe that the figures in 2017 can only be better and there we can't talk about any maternal relationship of any last government towards fishing. That's where he was really trying. As for communication with the European Parliament, the EU and I agree, I have spoken and I will repeat. Our European representatives are sitting on committees, let's say, the Committee on the Environment and Public Health and Social Security, colleague Borzan, Škrec and Tolic, Committee on Regional Development Jakovčić, Tomasic, Tolic. Agriculture and rural development Jakovčić and Petir, Committee on Economy and Monetary Policy Maletic, Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, Committee on International Affairs Picula, Radoš and Šica, etc., etc. These people are there to use them as we do Parliament and our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39476	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39477	Trust me, colleague, according to all the information from our fishermen, and there's no reason why I shouldn't trust them, because most of them say our fish's uncontrollable window by the Italian fishing fleet. But it's a great danger to destroy what we have in the Adriatic. Here is not even the problem of uncontrollable or exporting, importing, irrelevant. Here's the problem that we won't have any more fish funds, we'll stay this rich sea we have, the warm sea, the Mediterranean, we'll run out of fish funds, because they do whatever they want. The Italians don't plummet us for two berries. They're absolutely doing whatever they want. We are not a state, if we allow them, and the European Parliament and our MPs to fight, so let them hear the voice, they can come up with this information. They must be the most throatful, they are representatives of the Croatian people in that parliament, although very little are they able to overcome these forces, Italy, which is in agreement with France, with large countries, because, of course, the little ones absolutely don't hold us. We're an exploitation field for them, that's agreed, that's lobbyists as big as fishing, so we're powerless. Our chariots of old, against fishing fleets, Italians, we must bring and protect our submarines under an urgent, exclusive economic belt, because they literally defend, weapons of the submarine, destroy what will no longer be restored in 1,000 years, it is our natural wealth, it is not their father or mother's Italian. It's ours, but we've allowed them, it's not their fault, they're just using our strength, our division, in protecting our national interests, and our impotence in courting the Brusselsians, to start from the last 15 years of arrest, location, and then to continue and follow that policy. To be in the EU, but not a servant, but an equal because otherwise we won't have more people on the islands or on the coast. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39478	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. And I'm glad you noticed the time. Thank you very much. We have the next individual debate, distinguished counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39479	Thank you very much. Here's to saying something about the Law on Marine Fisheries, fishing is always a good topic, but I will not assess the effects of a deck chair or towels on the beach in Bol, on preserving the fish fund in the apple cauldron, because this is practically impossible to claim, I think that these populist discussions in terms of protecting this or that in fact do not contribute to the debate on this law, the Law on Marine Fisheries is the same as the Law on Agricultural Land for farmers, farmers and not at all... The topic discussed in this way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have one very clearly structured law, very clear, indeed in all areas, which apply certain directives, which we must apply, because the fact is that fisheries policy is a common EU policy and we have to act as we have entered the group we have to act in. That's why we have quotas and everything else we have to meet to prove that we understand that we are in the family community of other countries, that they have their own fishermen, that they have their own seas, and that they also make their own policies towards the fisherman. That is also how this law tries to resolve what are constant oppositions among those concerned, i.e. among fishermen, and there are many fishermen in Croatia. Anyone who goes out to sea, has a boat, is a fisherman, if they have a hook or I don't know a panula, or something else, a do or a net or a parangal, becomes a fisherman at that point. Everyone says they can hunt, the moment they meet at sea, on a boat up the coast and try to catch something. But it's not like that, it's just that this law clearly distinguishes, which is what we especially deal with fishing as professionals, which is what we use as coastal residents or islands so we can fish, which is what when we come as a tourist, guest or benevolent on some part of the coast of the sea, and we want to make or catch something for ourselves about our geese. There are clearly shared legal provisions where they clearly show what you can't, what you can't, and what you do when you do what comes to you as punishment. What is what fishermen are constantly warning about, and what is the constant opposition of Croatian policies, and not only now but also for the past 27 years and in the time before this area was not very much managed in the way it was desirable? It is certainly the story of the unfair competition of those who are fishermen with an economic advantage or those who are fishermen with the privilege of small fishing. It's an eternal story on the islands, why I don't know all my givings, have my own crafts, use what the law gives me, and these are tools that are much more extensive than other tools that have the privilege of small fishing, and that's why I would have to suffer unfair competition when I live out of it, and that's politics and in negotiations trying to solve it. Did we handle it the best way? For now, we have a certain peace because the fact is that Croatia has in terms of professional fishermen a great deal of these benefits and I think it is 3.5 thousand for small coastal fishing that have been won in the competition. where they have met the conditions that a certain number of people, in view of their property censorship and since they have a residence on the island or along the coast, have the right to obtain such a privilege. I think there was a lot more than 3.5 thousand interest, whether there were 7 or 8 thousand, that's something that might satisfy our demands, demands or needs. And then, of course, there's a little problem. There was a question of status and defenders and of this and that, and of course, that the state should unite and create some kind of fair framework that could satisfy everyone. What's the problem with unfair competition? The problem is the first tools to be used. So having a stand-up net is either single or double is not equal, having more tops or less or having the ability to use more tools than less is not equal. And there, professional fishermen are really constantly asking why they should be allowed something that they should not have, given that they are unfair competition, and the law states that we can catch up to five kilos of fish a day in small coastal fishing. How do you measure five kilos of fish? The clear law says how much we can put on the market. It's these five kilograms a day, but the fact is that there is sometimes a lot more, and sometimes a fisherman goes by a lot less. Now, to create this best framework, I think this law clearly prescribes what is the obligation of all, how much is now going to be punished by someone with both points and fines, and how much is there going to be penalties for those who do so professionally. What's the problem with little ones who have that license for small coastal fishing? The administration. They are mostly people who live on islands or on the shores of an old age, pensioners because their property censorship is small and when they take that book they need to fill out when they go out to sea he simply would not want to go out. Why? Because he had to write the time of departure, the time of arrival, write down the tools he used, and the second morning when he went up, he had to re-enter the time of departure, how much he caught, and then of course there were Latin names and everything else in that book and they just didn't understand it. We now tell them in Article 24(4). "if the fishing authorisation officer does not deliver a catch report for more than six months, he will lose his privileges". Now how do you get a pensioner who barely knows how to write to do something like that? It's administration. And we need to find a good measure there. First, that book must be much simpler, that it has a name and name, the owner of the boat, the number of privileges, leaving, leaving, first, second day and number of pounds of fish because he does not know those Latin names. I don't know what you've been dislocated through your administrations in the centers as a return, but it certainly doesn't look like what bureaucracy might want it to look like. So one simple review for those who have small coastal fishing because I'm told by professionals that theirs is much simpler than these others. So through the rule book, let the minister really prescribe it very simply, it's a really big remark from people who have these little permits, i.e. Little coastal fishing that I just can't fill out. When he gets control, it's the inspector, the police or the captains they have a problem, they really have a problem. That's what I'm saying from experience, and I'm telling you guys as people who need to think about it further. As far as tools are concerned, the problem is of course their season, they want to have a double net of standers or so on. And we haven't eaten a lot of syrup in a long, long time because we can't catch this one time, so we've got to get by, and then it goes into a space that's not legal. And the third is surveillance. They are controlled by police and fishing inspectors and port captains and when they all arrive at a given moment these fishermen no longer respond to the purpose and he is no longer a fisherman and he is constantly complaining that he cannot live on his island or in his place because as soon as he gets out 200m away from the coast he enters a certain danger. And then he resorts to what is contrary to the law. You today have many networks that are not marked in the sea, have many situations that destroy tools and come into a situation where fishing itself in some way chokes. So here with this unfair competition means administration, tools and supervision I think this law is really good quality and it enables selection clear, allows control, allows clear and breaking part is quite extensive, it is visibly engrossed and I think that great progress with what we have so far had. But it's gonna take a lot of communication with these people again, they're hard to come by, they're still hard to get some information. Like, the story of sending every few days reports to the river, I don't know from my Rab is a story that costs either a trip or a post office. You don't get feedback. You don't know if you've broken anything or not. Filling in one of those books makes me feel like it was only designed to get someone in the administration to have a certain job and to teach someone to do it. But let's just do it simply and let everyone know what he's done, because people really don't know how to fulfill it and it's their biggest challenge. And in some ways they say we don't even want to go to sea anymore because I have to be a secretary, an accountant and everything else, and at least the fisherman himself. So the lawyer, and I don't think that should be the point of the law. He has to make it clear what you can't say. But since we're already giving you, given your age and everything you've been through to get that privilege, then at least let me just make sure that I can, that we can control you, and you know it as a normal formal act. Here's so much for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39480	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague, Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39481	I thank the chairman. I congratulate you on the Mayor of the Municipality of Lopar and I would like to ask you if you have been asked by the North Adriatic fishermen about the problem of the prohibition of fishing throughout the area. I'll just read one of the mass e-mails I got. The forbidden catch aquarium of small blue fish continues to increase in the area of the northern Adriatic, Kvarner, Istria and the northern Adriatic islands. Now it's closed and the Gulf of Rijeka to Rapco. There's no comment. The Central Jaran aquarium is still closed only in symbolic parts that no one in our part of Croatia obviously cares even at this election time. So, gentlemen, it's cheap food for broad masses, and the anger in history has been a foster mother in the coast. No comment is needed except for the night when we see swimmers shining on the high seas bringing fish to the river fish shops and to the rap fish shops, but taking them somewhere else. So we still have a big problem with fishermen in the northern Adriatic. I'm wondering if you're familiar with that, and I mean, and I expect you from the ministry and more actively to set yourself up with these quotas because 40 tons of what we're supposed to be doing, so it's too little for us if we're hunting 60 thousand tons with our fishermen right now. It's not just a fish that's going to be one part of it going to a tuna farm. It's fish that go to fish-processing companies that will have to be shut down for that. And I think we need an active approach here. So this is now a time when you have a simple period of moratorium in some way for you to pause to prepare our fishermen and citizens. Don't forget 200 ships currently hunting for blue fish, that's 4,000 about fishermen who potentially most of them can lose their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39482	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ines Strenja-Linić, on the replica. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39483	Thank you very much. My colleague Strenja, I didn't get that memo, but that's the story I say that's being dragged from year to year and, of course, the fishermen are never satisfied. They're not happy if we cut fishing zones, and they're not happy if we increase them. So some kind of norm to guess that they're all satisfied and that policy certainly won't do. But, of course, a lot of communication, good acts, good interpretation means a lot helping them to do the same. Because I know a lot about them. They often fail in good acts, in good rules because they are not educated. We don't have much communication with fishermen, they're mostly all self-taught, mostly on the market themselves, especially these little professional ones. They're trying to survive it, have normal economic opportunities for their families since they're dealing with it. They are simply not aware of what is available to them through the common fisheries policy offered by the EU through competitions for EU funds. They really invest everything themselves, try and very rarely come across understanding and banks and states in the sense that they have the resources of European funds available and then we come down to this story you're a small fisherman, I'm a professional, we're big fishermen, our zones are either small or too small or they're too big. So it also comes to, between them to one relationship that's not good. And then we have a story that we're allowed to tell and how much we're allowed to do. We know the odds clearly who determines and when they come true, we know what it looks like. We were all happy at last Christmas Eve to open for two, three days here's a chance now to hunt your heart to have it I don't know about Christmas. Everyone was happy because we had fresh ones. I mean, we're marine land and we're fishing land. So there's a ministry and I think they're doing well, but of course we're going to need a lot of education just for those who might be the weakest in this, these are little fishermen professionals. These bigger ones are getting along a little bit because they've been at it for a long time. I say a lot, a lot of new information for them and opportunities that, unfortunately, they don't use.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39484	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for his reply. Another replica of distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39485	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, you have said several times in your presentation that there should have been greater and better communication between lawmakers, fishermen themselves and their associations and that there would certainly be no new debates or many questions about where to hunt, when to hunt, with which tools, what quantities. And of course it's always the fishermen who are dissatisfied, the ones who want their voice heard here, and that we stand up for them to pass more quality laws than they will be able to live on. I have also received information that these fishing gears used are not well-communicated enough with them and that the amount of 5 kg itself is not enough, that not all families are equally large and that administration is too large. A similar problem occurred when adopting European rules on alcoholic beverages and where we have determined 50 liters per household that each household in Slavonia is not enough, and the excise duties are also large. And it only contributes to the fact that it is not well-communised and that we have not negotiated well enough with the EU, and you have also mentioned the quality of life on the islands. It should be said that there has been an increase in the quality of life on islands through the Island Act, through co-financing of transport. As a result, there is an increase in population by 7% on islands, while on the other hand in Slavonia and Baranja, Podravina we have youth departure, population reduction. You mentioned the Agricultural Land Act I look forward to. You haven't put it in the process yet and brought it here, and here comes the harvest of wheat and barley. They don't know who our producers will turn over to because of the crisis in Agrokor or the ransom prices. And I think we all have to go together to help both fishermen and farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39486	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39487	Thank you very much. My colleague Vlaovic, I don't know what your opinion is. I think our agriculture minister, Mr. Tolusic, is doing a very good job. I can see how hard he's trying. So first about Croatian products, about the Croatian food industry. Now I see also around the wood industry, I see now and in fishing that they have a clear strategy, a goal, and that in the term of office I hope that it will be four years to clearly show that we have achieved certain objectives. We also have the project Dalmatia and the project Slavonia as two important projects of this government. And these are parts of these projects. And I don't think we're gonna be able to look through how many people have gone or not gone from a certain area because there are various legal forms why there's something more or less. Of course Slavonia is really moving out and there is trying to do everything I think the government needs to do or can do with the help of local self-government to stop people and stay here. We now have a major labour problem in the season not only in the catering season. I guess we'll have some fishing, too, because it's not easy today to be a fisherman or have a fleet or have a full crew, i.e. filled crews and it'll show up. That's what's ahead of us. But what I'm just insisting on is okay. Good. Now let's just help these little fishermen find out the real, good information because they're really uninformed. They really sometimes know nothing in terms of what they can get, what the state offers them all through EU funds, and they are not aware, they do not know, there are not enough workshops. They may be gathered within the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or some of their associations, but their meetings are very alive for you when you come to their meetings. They know very well what's bothering them, what they want, and they don't know how to do it because simply even though the law is good, and if we have opportunities from the funds, they don't know how to get it. That's their problem. And their will to fish and fish is simply great. And of course I hope that, I say all together through and through this law, but through other activities we will contribute to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39488	I thank Mr. Boric for his reply to the replica. Endowment of the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture Mrs. Marija Vuckovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to thank all the representatives and representatives for the debate. I will try briefly to address specific issues raised by individual representatives on behalf of clubs or on their own behalf. In the beginning, as regards the term of privilege, it has been used since '94. And we haven't thought about his change in this law. However, if I can make a little joke about the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture has recently abolished all its special tariffs, and so it may be justified to leave this term for the moment. As for the same observations for sports and recreational licences and the term of sale, it is also also a matter of publishing and buying, or selling. That's what it costs. Someone buys and someone sells and collects the same thing. As for the information on closed and open channels, it is not true, it is not only the northern canals that are closed, and those medium Adriatic and southern Adriatic canals are closed. The same approach is true everywhere, and the Ministry of Agriculture is in the interest, and I think the Republic of Croatia does not hunt in the canals as little as possible, to hunt as possible. There is a small and young fish there, already to hunt in the open sea. It's a bigger fish. The sale and purchase of such fish ensures a better price and has a more positive impact on the maintenance... As far as the quota is concerned, the information issued by an organisation that an organisation relating to the quota for the Republic of Croatia and small blue fish is incorrect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've only got the quota for tuna for now. The quota for the needle is in preparation, and it is indeed waiting for us in the coming years a lot if it can be called fighting to keep the current way of managing small blue fish through limiting fishing effort and spatial time limits. But the quotas you mentioned aren't relevant. As for the use of traditional tools, unfortunately there is nothing we can do for double nets of stand. It was part of a regulation that existed before Croatia joined the EU. It is not only applicable to Croatia and I don't see it now, and I'm sorry, I can't say that we can apply it to double networks. As regards issues relating to types of training and qualifications, certain degrees were mentioned in the presentation of Mr Ante Sanader's parliamentary representative. It is about schools, high schools, higher or higher, and higher ones that replace the necessary training and as such it is good that they exist, because people who have completed those orientations do not need to be trained further. As far as the VMS is concerned, it was a question of the cost of the VMS. All VMSs, meaning the introduction of a payment control system by the Ministry of Agriculture to fishermen and they have no cost in this regard. We will, of course, try to simplify the reporting. That's a good suggestion. And for the adoption of this law, we have a change of twenty regulations and so on. We're also working on introducing some mobile applications, so I believe we'll be able to simplify the way we report to small fishermen, and they don't think we should use Latin terms. Then, as regards the island communities, they are someone and mentioned recognised where they could be recognised in the best possible way in the section relating to the criteria for obtaining small coastal fishing permits, the islands of the first and second groups, the index of development, social status, or income per household member and defence status. It's about good and fair criteria, and we intend to keep them in the new rulebook. Three-and-a-half thousand is a license, or privilege for small coastal fishing. This is negotiated, and this is a kind of fishing that is hardly even present in the EU. We think it's a good thing that we got 3 and a half thousand, and we asked for 5 and a half thousand, and as far as the amount of 5 kilograms is concerned, it was transferred, so in the negotiations, the amount that was worth the restriction was also in previous times, before this categorization. ZERP, an exclusive economic belt, as regards fishing, fishing opportunities, it will be the same, declared Croatia exclusively an economic belt or a ZERP. There's no difference, I'd like to point out to the MPs who put it as a difference, that there's no difference in fishing. As for co-operation with the sector, it is indeed on a daily basis, with swimmers, so with those dealing with small blue fish, which is a catch of 85 to 90% of Croatian catches, we have a meeting every month, we have this meeting today. We regularly report to them everything that's important and what's going on in Brussels, everything that we prepare through regulations, laws, procedures, through the suggestion of derogations, and they participate in it, I think they're satisfied, and it can always be better and more. Finally, I would like everyone who wants to participate in the next draft rules, and so it was possible as far as the law is concerned, because it was an observation that it was only the transfer of orders from the EU, which I disagree with, is not, other issues are being regulated, and not only the direct regulations and the EU directive, which we are now mandatory to transpose. So, the electronic debate, all those who think they can contribute to better lawmaking and regulations, are welcome and the ministry will carefully read, promote, discuss along with all sectors in fishing such remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39490	I would like to thank the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Ms. Marija Vukkovic, for this final word, the arguments, the questions of parliamentary deputies and MPs. We've concluded the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I thank my colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture, sector chiefs, Mr. Mario Rogosic and Josip Markovic and State Secretary Marija Vukkovic for their reasons. With this today, we have exhausted all the points of the agenda. We continue the plenary session tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m., with a agenda report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 16.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-08-0.u39491	Final draft law on marine fisheries, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 142. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the Committee's amendments, thus becoming an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act. Please vote. I find that with 116 votes for and 3 abstentions, a law on marine fisheries has been passed along with the amendment adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I warmly welcome you all. Do you have a replica? You picked up a stick with a sign of a replica.
