ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u24655	Dear President of the Parliament, on behalf of the representative of the club MOST Independent Lists, I request a 10-minute break regarding the situation at Crosco. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u24656	Unless there are others interested, I'm setting a 10-minute break. It's 9:35 p.m. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we continue our work. The Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists reported for the break. On their behalf, MP Tomislav Panenic will explain the reason for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u24658	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues of the troubled night was. It's been a long time, but I would still take advantage of this moment. Unfortunately, the end of the topics that sometimes seem to be the most important through our legs give us goals again. And the topic that should be for us, which are jobs, we're going through a visor. I warned of a situation that was difficult in Borov, I warned of a situation that was difficult in other companies. Now we have a new situation, and this is INA's daughter CROSCO's company, a company that needs to deal with research, hydrocarbon exploitation, actually by researching primarily, by finding new supplies that should be a measure of the value of INA is involved in a whole series of affairs. When you see, because here's yesterday the data came out if someone didn't notice that over certain off-shore accounts, some brokerage companies pulled out 40 million dollars. Doesn't INA CROSCO as a company look so dramatic because we always talk about INA? But back in 2007, the ninth, so at the time we're back again, the time of the people we all call together for a difficult situation in INA and through other companies was a crime. In these activities, the same names, former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's names, were re-indentated and mentioned, primarily the name Joza Petrovic. And this extraction actually we can say we still have another Croatian Panama papers. So, over the offshore companies that were pulled there are money, where CROSCO fictitiously bought an excessive value of two companies. And that difference ended up in someone's pockets, in the pockets of people who are systematically connected through various intermediaries, overseas Polands where taxes are hidden. Both these people and today are actually leading us politics, and we're dividing ourselves, and this morning I've heard of one who's a fraud, the other who's a thief, we're suing each other, we're playing and we're forgetting that we should actually protect the national Croatian interests. And we're going to have Panama as a noose around our necks. It will not be in favour of the Croatian state, but it will not be in favour of the Hungarian state either. It will benefit certain clicks that govern both us and there with all the good and that try to continue to rule in one way or another primarily in energy where there are the greatest interests. When we look at it, we go back to that time, one of the names of the company that is staring at all of us is Mossack Fonseca, a company that rarely anyone can remember by name, but with whom all the names connect. And these names I listed, and also the names and Sandor Chani, also our acquaintance, even through a warrant issued by Hernandy. And that's why I'm calling, and now let's not make a division between us today about topics that won't solve what's key, which is to put back into Croatian hands what's crucial to us. I am asking on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most urgently to take action to really discover all these actions so that in the end, not because of what happened, we will have a hard time returning it, but because it is not happening to us today in this division that we have and that it does not happen to us in future time. And I'm glad there's a jump on the trail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30985	We will now move on to that point which is next, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Procedure of the Appeals, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 77. Proposal for a Act of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received their reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy Ms Margareta Majeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30986	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Republic of Croatia signed a university protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the complaint proceedings in 2013, thus expressing its intention to take further steps to become its party. This Protocol is the third universative protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, with the college protocols on the inclusion of children in armed conflicts, and on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. The Protocol allows the appeal of individuals or groups of individuals or other persons on their behalf who claim that they are victims of violations by the State of the Protocol of any right under the Convention on the Rights of the Child and its first two university protocols. The purpose of the protocol is to ensure access of the child to international legal protection unless the national system has provided adequate protection. This protocol is actually an additional mechanism for protecting children's rights and freedoms. In particular, complaints under the optional protocol are permitted, however, when all available domestic legal protection funds are exhausted and when the application of domestic legal protection funds is without reason extended or is unlikely to achieve an effective solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30987	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. Then we move on to the debate, I open the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first member of the Croatian Parliament, Irena Petrijevcanin-Vukasnović, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30988	Dear Vice President, respected rapporteurs, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here we heard about this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Faculty Protocol discussed committees that unanimously supported it, the Committee on Family and the Committee on Legislatives, and there were no objections to the text of the law as far as I could see. The ratification of this university protocol is primarily a recommendation by the UN Charter for the Rights of the Child and the need is also being warned by the Office of Advocates for Children and Civil Organizations whose activities have been focused on the welfare of children for some time. First of all, it should be said that the legislation in Croatia has already reached one can say a satisfactory level of protection of children's rights and promotion of children's development, and by ratifying this university protocol, it is also achieved that Croatia will be joined by those countries that jointly strengthen this child protection system. Why is that good? Why should the university protocol be ratified, and why is that even positive? So because it is simply said it can solve those complaints when all available domestic remedies are exhausted. Otherwise, this university protocol was signed by Croatia in 2013 and since then it has been constantly talking about the need for its more rapid ratifications. The adoption of the university protocol on the 2011 appeal procedure is the so-called The third university protocol provides the possibility for children to also file complaints over violations of human rights to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. And now what is this committee? Well, the Committee on the Rights of the Child is simply composed of 18 international independent experts dealing with the area of human rights, and it does in some way constitute a supervisory body to implement the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the protocols related to that Convention, and these protocols are three, first, second, and this is the third. This third university protocol was signed by 50 countries, I will only mention some of the countries of Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Finland, France, Germany, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Serbia, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine, etc. 20 countries have ratified, including Germany, Ireland, Montenegro, and in the countries that ratified it, it came into force in 2014. What's the point of saying? Under the national legal systems of the countries which ratified it, it is considered to be the cornerstone of a system guaranteeing the protection of human rights to children while the complaint provided for by that third university protocol is another additional possibility in the event that the national system is temporarily scheduled. And a complaint other than violation of the rights guaranteed by that Convention on the Rights of the Child may also require protection in the event of infringement of the first two university protocols. And the first university protocol is actually protection, talking about children in armed conflicts, he's from 2002, and the second university protocol is already mentioned here, talking about selling children, child pornography and child prostitution, and he's also from 2002. Otherwise, in the Croatian legal system, we know that ratifications are mentioned in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and it is important to point out that it is directly applicable, and that convention is above the law by its power. Both children and their legal advocates shall be empowered to initiate proceedings in the event of a right guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child before the Court and an additional guarantee of the exercise of those rights in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child shall also constitute such a possibility as to initiate the constitutional action proceedings before the Constitutional Court. What is important to point out is that the third university protocol provides so-called "the third university protocol". 3 special procedures. The first procedure is an individual action by an individual or a group of individuals or other persons on their behalf who claim it and should prove that they are victims of infringements of certain rights guaranteed by a convention or protocol by a party State, by one of the rights provided for by the Convention on the Rights of the Child or its consultative protocols. The second is the case in the context of an interstate complaint, meaning the state party, can sue another state party and determine the procedure before the committee. And the third investigative procedure, in the case of serious or systematic infringements and of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, or the two university protocols mentioned in 2002, is also mentioned. Some legal experts have also asked an additional question here and that is a legitimate question. The issue concerns the absence of the possibility of filing a collective complaint which was provided for in the proposal of the Third Faculty Protocol. And in that sense, I say the question is legitimately analysed are the solutions of some of the Member States in whose national legal systems are in place and you are in order to achieve collective protection of children's rights. As for individual complaints to the Committee on the Rights of the Child of the UN, I said, it can be filed by an individual, a group of persons or on their behalf by someone third and against the State of the Party for violation of the right. What is important is to say that the third university protocol provides that, in the event of a need for haste, the Committee on the Rights of the Child at any time after receiving the complaint and before making a decision on the main matter, it may submit an urgent examination of the request to the State of the party to determine the temporary measures which would therefore, in these exceptional circumstances, prevent the occurrence of so on. irreparable consequences of a child or a group of children. It may also request the State Party to inform it of those actions which the State Party has filed on the complaint and on the views of the State of the Party. So if the agreement is concluded with the board and Croatia is involved. And before submitting a subsequent report, which is in accordance with that provision of Article 44 of the Convention on Convention, Conventions and Provisions of the Faculty Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Pornography, Child Prostitution related to the Third Faculty Protocol. What's more important to say is that the victims of individuals or groups when we talk about children, my personal opinion and the opinion of legal experts are definitely those individuals or those groups that abuse the Third Protocol in the domain of pathosihology. So the people who use children for child pornography, for sexual or any other abuse mentally or physically, so we all have to agree that they deserve the greatest conviction and proper punishment. And any form of abuse is absolutely unacceptable and child abuse as an powerless category of people is absolutely pure hell. In this context, any improvement in national legislation is more than commendable and also an invitation to international associations and international systems aimed at helping prevent and protect children as powerless from adults who are more than desirable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30989	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30990	Comrade Petrijevcanin, you mentioned that the Third Faculty Protocol was signed in 2013 and here we are now waiting for ratification and therefore I welcome the final draft of the law. So in September 2015. The Association of Juvenile Judges headed by Judge Lana Pete Kujundzic spoke and organised a professional thematic debate. And in fact, this Third Faculty Protocol allows the child to be entitled to appeal outside the national framework of the state, and according to this protocol it is necessary to enable children in Croatia. I would like to point out here that children are often victims of mental, physical, and sexual abuse. We in the city of Zagreb have a children's protection policy which is very well managed by Professor Gordana Buljan Flander. But what exists as a problem is the issue of the hospital treatment of adolescent children. So Croatia still has a bit of an appointment on the plan. In the Republic of Croatia we have only one hospital, it is a psychiatric hospital for children and youth in the city of Zagreb, it is insufficient, there are new initiatives now. So in Osijek and Split, docents Katarina Dodig Curković and Professor Tomislav Franić are making great efforts to develop this children's adolescent psychiatry. It's all kind of a path towards better and common with this legal, regulatory framework, I hope that children's rights will be as protected as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30991	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30992	Dear colleague Celic, anything that goes in favour of better safety and child protection as a category that is more powerless than adults is welcome. The Croatian legislative framework is already quite on the subject we would say at a satisfactory level. Of course, any next element that leads to improvement is more than welcome. The only thing that we can possibly say is that it would be even more desirable that, unfortunately, this university protocol does not provide for any sanctions for the state, the state of the party that does not act on its opinions and recommendations, so that it is a body that only makes recommendations to the Member State, and then is left to national legislation to actually do the job the way it should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30993	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Ljubice Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you colleagues mentioned in your presentation that, of course, children need to be protected from all kinds of violence and that this university protocol will certainly help. I hope that children with developmental difficulties will also be further protected because, unfortunately, here are the recent statistics on how violence is committed against children with developmental difficulties, which is certainly inadmissible. Of course, I also think about all children, but children with developmental difficulties are further exposed to violence, so I believe that improving legislation and this university protocol will certainly help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30995	Thank you. A respected representative, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30996	Dear colleagues, as you know, the Convention on the Rights of the Child makes no difference or exception when children with developmental difficulties are compared to children who do not have such difficulties, and to this all three protocols are attached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30997	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the next one will speak to the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30998	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Every convention provides a framework, some guidance. However, if it is not implemented through national legislation in principle, it does not solve a single problem. Then we have a second step when we pass a law if it doesn't apply again we have a problem. For example, much has been said about the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, about the fact that certain things are not working. So, they're beautifully written in law, there are certain measures. Often, however, they do not take part in the field. So, the hardest way is always the law itself, to get everyone to apply it neatly and to keep everyone working and doing things by the law. So for example, all police stations in major cities have video interview rooms, so for recording, child trials that are victims of violence. However, we still have a problem in practice, which is that a good part or part of the judges simply doesn't want to get out of their courtrooms, they don't want to go to or a police station or any other place where there's a possibility that through a video link a child can be examined and that it really isn't traumatized. What is important, therefore, and this university protocol reminds us once again, that we must build special mechanisms that will protect children because they are the most unprotected category when they are found as any, therefore, or as a victim of any crime or are found in some court proceedings. So I would like to say that it seems to me that it was important to step up the one that we did because we lost judgments at the European Court of Human Rights precisely because no child when they found themselves in a procedure concerning their rights no one asked for their opinion, and that according to the Convention on the Rights of the Child is necessary and necessary. So the establishment of the Centre for Special Care, so a certain number of lawyers who have passed a judicial exam, who go to court and who are completely free of charge to defend children the moment the children are found in the trial. I am pleased that this government, or ministry, has consistently increased funds for the Centre for Special Care in this budget, which means that it will continue to expand in this centre to say so and to provide enough people who will be able to continue to represent children in court disputes, because it is my best concern for children. It should be said that in 2016 alone, employees of the Centre for Special Care received 2200 items relating only to the protection of children's rights. More than 3100 children are involved in these cases, so it is a number of situations in which children are involved from conflicting divorces, from parental care decisions, measures to protect children's rights. Property procedures that also concern children, so all that affects children's rights. And what's more important to say, which is that these employees are educated, so in interdisciplinary, they perfect communication with the child in the judiciary, which is very important. So it's important that we have a certain contingent of people who can communicate with children the moment they're in court. There are other mechanisms that have proved to be good. So in the new Family Law compared to the old according to all the indicators that the courts gave compared to the year before, there was an increase in the drastic number of those who divorced in agreement. So before they were about 33%, it's now 67% of the people who get divorced in agreement, so thanks to the parents' plan, which I think is good. Children are most traumatized in the divorce, often subject to litigation, litigation, after which they would end up with psychologists, and this, as Colic unfortunately said, is the Poliklinic for the Protection of Children of the City of Zagreb with the highest number of dealings with children who were traumatized in the conflicting divorce. Therefore, this is a mechanism that has shown that parents are still around 70% responsible for their children, and that they will agree on a common care for the child, and then that 30% that are conflicting can be solved through mediation, so a much smaller percentage remains for us to even expose children to any judicial process and further trauma. There are new forms of child abuse on the Internet, identity theft, children showing in various situations, so on the Internet, stealing pictures, all sorts of simply those who are prone to any criminal acts and harmful actions at the heart of a child are very imaginative, and every day unfortunately we discover some new methods of child abuse. And I think it's very important to work on prevention, so on the education of children to recognize it all, to know on the Internet when someone is in inappropriate communication with them, not to put photos on the Internet, so on their facebook profile or any other person who can be abused, which someone can put in another context tomorrow that can ruin life. So, I think education and prevention at this point is extremely important and should work on it. So, once again, I would just like to say that no convention in itself solves the problem, every convention should be implemented through national legislation and that step further should be done, and that is that everyone in the system really gets to do the job and do the way we should in the law because if that remains a dead letter on paper, then we are talking about these cases that the last few discussions you have been talking about here. In fact, everything is well set up in law, but unfortunately, in practice, people who should do so are not keeping what is written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u30999	Thank you. And on your exhibit, we have two replicas. The first one is Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u31000	Well, dear fellow Opačić, I agree with you that it's not good to keep a dead letter on paper, but we already see from several bill proposals or laws that have arrived here in the parliamentary procedure that this resolute ministry is doing quite affirmatively. And with regard to domestic violence and the Istanbul Convention, which, according to the Prime Minister's announcements, will be ratified this year, and not since 2013, we also see that it is a sign of good work of the ministry and I commend it and I am glad that you objectively established it and it is a fact. And so the fact is that this ministry, apart from the Istanbul Convention, and here we see today this emergency of the Third Faculty Protocol Act and some other laws that I know reliably know are in preparation for aphimative purposes, it works well and it shows a very good trend. So I have to objectively claim that they're doing a solid job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u31001	Thank you. The Vice-President of this High House will respond to the distinguished Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u31002	So I absolutely agree with you, but if we talk more widely about protecting children's rights, then it's not just on one ministry, it's a few ministries and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, but it should be said that we've made some progress with years. The MUP has done a lot of work over the past few years on the education of special teams dealing with children when they are found as victims of a certain crime. I think we're still the tiniest kind of justice, and there's still a good part of the people in the judiciary that resists using this kind of interrogation, which is that everyone who needs testimony on one side, and a child with a psychologist on the other side, and that they have no contact with people who don't often know how to ask a child a question or know how to access a child from four years of age, 6 so a very small child. This is a matter of co-operation of several ministries because if one ministry schedules in its implementation, what it does unfortunately also falls into the water.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u31003	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u31004	Dear MPs, Opačić. I agree with what you said about these differences that exist from individual units of local self-government, and I also agree that you said that this is an inter-resort area and it is important to engage both the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and other ministries. You mentioned that divorces are one of the most common reasons why a child needs professional help. There should certainly be mentioned addictions, other than these older addictions, the problem is also with these new non-substantial addictions. So on February 7th, a more secure Internet day was marked on the subject “Be Change, Unite for Better Internet” where both children and parents are informed, educates on the importance of Internet security. And I would briefly mention that you also referred to the Poliklinic for the Protection of Children of the City of Zagreb, I think it is something to highlight and praise during such discussions. Unfortunately, there is an increasing number of psychiatric skills in the facility, an increasing number of diagnostics of therapeutic procedures, which on the one hand can say that improved health care is related to children but also gives some indication that violence against children is on the rise.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u31005	Thank you. Answer to the distinguished Croatian Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u31006	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yes, absolutely education for me is the most important of both parents and children, so they can very quickly recognize these new dangers that come to us, of course, there's what you've said to some new kind of addiction, some imagination again, so in some laboratories where there are a lot of mixes that can pretty much destroy young generations and children who don't have enough knowledge and then reach for something. But at this point, you might also refer to what you said earlier, which is health care, so children who have certain psychiatric diagnosis. Yeah, there's only one hospital, but it's been a problem for years. I remember while the minister was Darko Milinovic, at the moment we were talking about the need for more child psychiatrists, however, each of the designated specializations remained unfulfilled. There is no interest in it and obviously it is a very difficult part in medicine or it is simply not as interesting or as not popular, I really don't know why people are so few showing up to specialize in child psychiatry, but yes, you are right, we don't have enough child psychiatrists who are specialized enough, there's only a hospital in Kukuljevica in Zagreb, I hope that things may change a little bit, that people may be more specialized in this and that maybe in some hospitals we'll open it up to others, just as I would like to, not perhaps as a polyclinic but as some other maybe smaller units open up in Split and Osijek, the Rivers work through a well-developed and large association Tic because it's hard for people to travel from Dubrovnik to Zagreb when they have to take therapy with a child in Poliklinic, so it still requires certain costs. Well, if you can, unfortunately we also have a problem of a lot of dispersion and experts, so I don't even know if there are enough in some parts of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u31007	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met, 12 o'clock. Now we're gonna take a break by 12:00 and I'm asking you all to be here to vote on the points that have been discussed so far. ANNIGHT IN 11.25 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-10-0.u31008	The next item is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Procedure of Appeals, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 77. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the Appeal Procedure. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, unanimously 135 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against, have passed the Law confirming the university protocol under the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the appeal procedure. The next item is the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a request for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of Peđa Grbin. Does the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System want to further explain the opinion? No, I don't. I thank the president of the Committee. In accordance with Article 236. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system shall be decided without discussion. I am voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of requests for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of Peđa Grbin. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, most of the votes 88 for, 2 abstentions and 44 votes against, we have adopted the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
