ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25069	Dear MPs, we are continuing to hold a plenary session. For the rest of the time, as far as I can see, Agent Lovrinović called.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25070	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. I'm looking for a ten-minute break to warn the public about the harmfulness of the activation of real estate taxes to all citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25071	Representative Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25072	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club to warn of the threat of the spread of genetically modified organisms in Europe and Croatia and the disastrous abstention of Croatia on this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25073	Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25074	I'm using the break to talk about the Agrokora situation or the news of unworthy financial books.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25075	Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25076	I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP club due to the current political situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25077	Agent Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25078	Mr. President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the club to talk about producing mistrust in the state and state institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25079	Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25080	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ club, I am looking for a break to discuss the current political situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25081	If there are no other interested, I'll set a ten-minute break for the press conference. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] A couple of clubs called and asked for a break. The first club that requested a break is the club Let's change Croatia. Representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak on their behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25083	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. I asked for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia to warn the public about what is wrong with the idea of introducing a tax on real estate in early 2018. And immediately to express the view that our party is to change Croatia against the introduction of real estate tax because it will not solve the problem of fair distribution of tax burden and this should be the goal under the law. In layman's words, Croatia needs a law to regulate the issue but to have the effect that richer people still pay more than citizens who don't have enough to live and that doesn't mean now on stage. It also seems that the government has succumbed to some kind of lobby that has again decided to protect their interests over the backs of the poorest. But I didn't come out for this pay phone to just criticize, but to offer arguments and solutions. Instead of real estate taxes, we propose better preparation of the entire tax reform. I remind you, at the end of last year, a package of tax changes was adopted in this House, then a decision was made, most of which is now in the power of HDZ and MOST, they adopted it and they said here we are introducing and a simple sales tax, in fact a property tax will no longer be a real estate tax and a communal fee, we will now call it real estate tax. However, we see that this procedure means changing, the tax system and it is not liked by investors and it is detimulative. However, respected gentlemen and citizens who follow us through the media the transition from one type of tax system to another is very complicated and difficult, our tax system has been based for years on taxes and excise duties, taxes. Two-thirds of the state budget fills up like that, about. We would now like overnight to introduce a property tax, land books are not solved, property legal relations and neither is the system ready for that. Switching from a tax system based on taxes and excise duties, according to the tax system that will be based on taxation of assets is a complicated process and it requires good preparation. Well, aren't we already paying taxes on properties where we don't have a place to stay but also a utility fee? Why is this system even better than the one you're looking for? So by paying real estate taxes in places where we don't have residences and utility fees, we when we pay communal fees we know exactly what purpose that money goes for. If we pay everything in one real estate tax now, we don't have a checkup, it can be spent on maltenes, for anything. We want to protect citizens who have invested hard money in the construction of real estate, paid taxes on the transport of materials, labour, and now wants to tax them again. In that sense, we should therefore say that we do not want further destabilising the tax system. Imagine, for example. how much will it have to pay if this property tax is activated, how much would it have to pay for a family living in Slavonia, living hard and hard on agriculture, and now they're going to have to pay real estate tax on the house and all the facilities they have to have to deal with agriculture. The other thing, everything they inherited, has almost no value because no one wants to buy. And if you'd like to give that property because the real estate, the good part of the people has already gone from there, they don't even have to give it to anyone and they're bound to pay real estate tax. Where do you gentlemen come from, I'm asking you? Our village just can't stand this tax press anymore, and we just have to say that's the way it is. If it were to be spent, I would now say one common thing not to tell the mantra but it is true, it would be the last nail in the coffin of Croatian villages and that is the basis for maintaining and preserving demographics, it is the Croatian village. I must remind myself that by now as many as a fifth of the family's farms have been permanently blocked in Croatia, they are burdened with debts they cannot pay. And to finish, new gas, electricity, etc. comes soon, and we don't want the tax reform that was carried out, so it didn't show the expected results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25084	The HSS representative club also requested a break. On their behalf, MP Davor Vlaovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25085	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break on behalf of the HSS Club because we want to send a clear message that we at HSS do not support genetically modified organisms and polluted food and that we primarily advocate the health of our citizens, our health but also our village and our peasants whose fruits and vegetables, I am convinced is not genetically modified. Are these strawberries genetically modified, imported from Spain, we don't know. The problem is that there are fewer and fewer of our products, which we don't give our products enough protection, we don't give enough advertising and the fact is that we don't even know what we're eating and many unfortunately try not to find out. We had the opportunity to hear that Croatian representatives in Brussels were at the beginning of this week, that they were abstentioned to the European Commission's proposal on the authorisation of two new GMO varieties of corn and reauthorisation of existing Monsanto GMO seeds in the EU area, and to authorise imports of a series of genetically modified varieties of corn for use in food and feed. I would remind you that last year we had a debate on the Law on genetically modified organisms, that it should have been our tool to protect Croatia from genetically modified food and organisms, that all clubs were for that. Unfortunately, there has been no second reading in the adoption of this law, that 20 counties in the Republic of Croatia have made a decision in their congregations that GMOs are free. And what do our representatives in Brussels do? They're restrained. Who are they representing? Whose interests are the dams? Denmark, Ireland, France, Luxembourg, Hungary, Austria, Poland, Slovenia and Sweden, and Italy are just some of those who voted against. We're not. Why did two more votes for this decision need to be rejected, and ours were restrained? Could we be against and still lobbying with our friends and partners and thus reject this possibility of not going further into debate with the European Commission? Did she schedule our foreign policy? Who do we even represent in Brussels? Interests in certain lobbies. In this case, the GMO industry. Then why don't we say it more clearly in Brussels, and here in Croatia we are for GMOs, let's buy GMO tomatoes, strawberries. They don't fail for months, they're standing in the fridge like they were picked yesterday. Why haven't we done more control and inspection to better mark food in which GMO content exists? Did we not send a message to these restraints on the European Commission's proposal that we do not need our village, our production, to boast in vain of our biodiversity, our indigenous varieties, indigenous animal species, black Slavonic pig, bacon, tower and other products if we allow imports, transport, cultivation of GMO products. We also protect our consumers, because I have already said that there is too little inspection, that fine letters are written from what is produced, where it is produced, and that our customers do not recognize enough and that there is evidence through the health ministry inspections that products are present on the Croatian market with food shares. So GMO's coming through the little door whether we want to admit it or not. In 2014 alone, we imported 43,000 tonnes of corn, imported 1630 tonnes of soy. There's no real data on soy shotgun. And we know that soybeans and soybeans and corn imported from South America, from the United States, where 90% of this production is genetically modified. There are also research by the U.S. Department of Health as to how this affects citizens' health, so we have a large number of overweight citizens, cardiovascular problems, asthma problems, allergy problems. Is that what we want in Croatia? Who protect our domestic customers and manufacturers? Who protects consumers and people in Croatia from such products? On the other side of the Slavonic field, we stand empty as we import livestock food full of GMOs, shame. And what else can we do? I don't think the Department of Agriculture has done their job either, that it had to protect domestic production and it will happen to us now and that state agricultural land owned in the use of Agrokor [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Goes to foreign companies, and our production will fail. [[President: Time's up. Thank you.]] I think Minister Maric has that responsibility, too. [[/Adversity President: Representative Vlaovic is out of time. Thank you.]] Excuse me. Here's this GMO apple.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25086	Thank you very much. Here you go. Please don't do the show at the assembly. The "Live Wall" representative club also called for a break. In their name will be spoken by Agent Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25087	Good afternoon. Dear ladies and gentlemen, today or yesterday we learn new details about Agrokor, i.e. boss Ivica Todorovic. Namely, the latest information says that the debt of Agrokor before tax and get it they say EBITDA was half a year ago, means 6 times bigger, and now they report that the debt of Agrokora is 13 times the profit before paying interest and taxation. What does that mean? It means that it would be a debt, i.e. that, with the profits actually paid by the firm at the annual level, the company should earlier mean that the company will make 6 years of profits to cover one year's liabilities. That means that debt is bigger than EBITDA. And now they say that 13 times as long as EBITDA would be translated into Agrokor 13 years would have to make that cumulative gain of 13 years spent to settle the debt, or debt of one year. Which will say that the financial situation in Agrokor is unsustainable and therefore the Russian investors said essentially that it is not possible in the half of the year to double the debt from 6 times to 13 times and that it is very obvious, or likely that the financial reports were falsified, or haired that they did not show the real situation. In a newspaper owned by Mason Marijan Hanžekovic, he writes: “One other government spokeswoman told us that it was clear that there were possible abuses in the business of Agrokor, and Božo Petrov, the head of the Most, and the head of the Parliament at a meeting in the government with Ivica Todorovic asked the head of the management of the concert whether they faked business reports on what Todorov had reacted sharply, convinced participants of the meeting.” And why am I telling you this? Because current Finance Minister Zdravko Maric was the executive director in Agrokor before he came to the government, which he will say and was still in charge of investment or financing, which will say he was actually referred to the situation he is in Agrokor. And despite his knowledge of the situation in Agrokor, he allowed the HBOR loan of 283 million kuna in December last year, suggesting that he had nothing to do with it, as an exception to himself from the decision, and knew that Agrokor was in front of bankruptcy, which damaged HBOR for 283 million kunas that would never be returned. And so when they asked him at the end of January if Agrokor was in front of bankruptcy, he replied as he probably didn't, which means he can't say for sure that he didn't, and that could say for sure that everything was right, so he didn't mess around. Now, if Zdravko Maric knew the reports were faked, why did he give credit to Agrokor through HBOR, why did he allow it to be given? On the other hand, if he didn't know the reports were faked, the question is, how are his competences as a minister if he doesn't know how he operates in his own company? Now we come up with one fundamental question, which is what DORH deals with, what does the IRS deal with, what does the Ministry of Finance and the State Audit do? So the DORH is doing this moment by taking pictures of me with students in schools, going after Međimurje even pilgrimages from students to students, asking him what I told him, whether I made him take pictures, etc. But for this great masculine that will lead to bankruptcy, collapse and disaster, the DORH is not interested. So the DORH doesn't care if they forged business books in Agrokor, as it is possible to double the debt within six months, i.e. debt-based liabilities, etc., which will say that state institutions are covering up the crime that's going on in Agrokor, and they're actually just throwing things under the carpet, and things are basically not going to be able to, everything's going to come out. And I call on the Ministry of Finance to take control of the boss, or Ivica Todorovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25088	The SDP advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will be the representative of Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25089	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, MPs. I asked for a break on behalf of the SDP club to warn of the more difficult positions of workers who were being bankrupted by the company they worked in without a job. Here's the Association Međimurski brand is up here today at the gallery so everyone who after my break will want to get a little more familiar with this problem can get a flyer like this, can talk to people. The Association of Međimurje Brands asked me to read to you their letter so that you could get closer to getting to know what kind of problems the workers face when they're out of business for years. "Respected, the Association of Međimurje Brands gathers over a thousand members. For many years, we have been the victim of a legally inefficient system for the protection of workers as bankrupt creditors. The damage is caused by unimaginable regulations that allow the irresponsible conduct of management and supervisory boards of commercial companies and individuals in the judicial system to remain unpunished. None of these actors are responsible for the damage caused by the excessive initiation of the bankruptcy proceedings. There is no interest in effectively carrying out criminal proceedings. As a result, the bankruptcy mass is never nearly enough to pay off the creditors of all the enquiries they have been granted. As creditors, we are burdened with taxpayers who, among other things, have to finance the activities of the Agency for the Protection of Workers' Claims, payments by the agency are generally the only income that the former insolvencyary workers receive in the bankruptcy process. After the cancellation of the labour contract due to the launch of the bankruptcy process, workers become and remain a social problem permanently. examples of work, women who at the time of bankruptcy in the company of the MTC system had conditions for the recognition of pension rights, made pensions of about 1500 kuna for 30 years of employment, which is undeniable, insufficient for the lives of individuals, and even less for the decent lives of a multi-member family. New employment cannot be found, employers are blackmailing the exclusive offer of black labour, which, despite the efforts of the labour inspectors, continues to have alarming proportions. We suggest that you request information from the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Čakovec, in particular information on how many workers or trade union criminal applications have been rejected. The purpose of these applications was to suspend, in a timely manner, economic crime which unquestionably leads companies into bankruptcy and protect all creditors. However, management and supervisory boards remained unpunished, and bankruptcy proceedings were denied only when only crumbs from the table remained in the bankruptcy table. Peacefully and unpunishedly they destroyed everything, and some of the prosecutions uninterruptedly secured their escape abroad. The legal inefficiencies that we point to are the consequences of a poor state, a government or a system that the government maintains permanently, rather than changing it urgently and thoroughly. In these circumstances, we formerly have no power to protect our rights. Please, by giving up the state of bankruptcy or in some other way that you find gossiping, correct the gaps we point to, and ensure that our former workers are properly paid out of the bankruptcy claims we are granted. In the absence of these funds and the possibility of relegal employment, we are condemned to be debtors who cannot pay basic living expenses, save for age, educate children, start their own business or otherwise contribute to the quality of life. We are intended exclusively for survival and for the very likely effective application of the rules on personal bankruptcy, unlike the ultimate inefficient application of the rules on the bankruptcy of companies." With respect, the president of the Association Mr. Antun Mikec who is currently here at the gallery, just for example, to read you some of these companies, MTH factory rubles d.d. Čakovec, 425 workers, the search of former employees is 19.8 million kuna, so far received 7 million, Međimurje Beton d.d. Čakovec 135 employees of the search for former employees is 5.8 million and have not received anything, Međimurje High building 973 workers search for former employees 45.5 million kuna, all workers received only 4000 kuna. Dear colleagues, is it okay that workers who have believed mostly until the last day stories about the existence of a solution who were the companies where they worked, and they felt like their own, the only money. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] I call upon you all together Find a solution to this problem, thank you because I believe it's our job. [[Adversity President: Representative Stjepan Kovac timed out.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25090	MPs' club HSLS, HDS, HDSSB also requested a break. In their name will be the representative of Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25091	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I also considered it necessary for me to speak on behalf of the club, say a few sentences as to how time allows me about a phenomenon that is present in Croatia and this is a phenomenon of mistrust with the government, according to the institutions of the state and according to what is currently happening on this plan, believing that it is disastrous for society as a whole. The theme of all topics today is Agrokor and rightly, rightly because Agrokor means too much to the total economy in Croatia. The government’s own announcement that it would be included in this story has become almost appealing to some people that what the government has to do with it. I think it's an extremely responsible government move how and in what way they're going to deal with it, we're just going to see it, but that it stands by and lets everything happen without any responsibility for it, would be inadmissible. So the moment she showed interest she was already being attacked. I'll just tell you that he's been in the biggest American crisis since '29. Until '33. when he was President Herbert Hoover, who was the most popular president of the United States, after which, who advocated only the market as the regulator of all relations in society, that after his term he became the most unpopular statesman and the most popular statesman and the American president and was the most educated he and his wife to come behind him to include the state in solving these crises and become one of the most popular. So the government and the state get involved in such big problems, it's just their job. You remember when Angela Merkel taught Croatia how to treat their companies, Telekom, when we were buying the Airbuss, how the French pressures were on President Tudjman, etc., and we're under the influence of news and I mean destructive policies that are terrible. In this context, I will give just one example of what this has led to. Japan has the largest external debt of around 235% of GDP, Croatia has 84%. But international institutions give Japan much better ratings because they say they can repay the debt. Why? The Japanese are in debt and buying Japanese products, in debt to the Japanese banks. And I'll only tell you what's going on, what's led to this mistrust. We issue bonds, the Croatian state and on the London Stock Exchange are bought by Americans, Danish, German, English and Croatian citizens have savings, Croatian citizens have a huge savings of approximately 15 billion kunas say they save in foreign banks as well. So what's interesting now? In these banks where Croatian citizens save interest is 0.5%, in bonds it is 3.75%, they can get. And we believe more the failed Unicredit group in which a Croatian bank, where Croatian citizens save, is facing bankruptcy. We trust a foreign bank that's in front of bankruptcy rather than our own state. It's something inadmissible. And gentlemen, I will only end up with the fact that when we buy a refrigerator in Gorenje, there is nothing against the competition model, but we must be aware that at that moment we have financed emergency assistance and firemen in Maribor. So it is important to take care of where we buy and who we trust and whose Parliament we are. And the third thing, there's an Arab bass that talks about a giraffe and a scorpion crossing the river, asking a scorpion giraffe to let her, to let her climb on her coat of arms, to cross the river, she lets him, where it was deepest, the scorpion stabs and dies both, both sinks and giraffes and scorpions. And he asks him a giraffe, so why? He says that's who I am. Let's not be scorpions, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25092	The HDZ advocates' club also called for a break. Representative Branko Bacic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25093	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As counterpart Dodig said earlier, the club's position is already in this morning and the Croatian public is very much about the problems of Agrokor. Agrokor as one of the largest Croatian companies and certainly the largest private Croatian company has a significant, major impact on the national economy on the one hand and on the other hand on the financial system in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is perfectly legitimate, justifiable, I would also say that in this case, I would like to ask the Croatian Government to react and how? In line with the law that can enable the government to react in these situations when it comes to the functioning of such a large system that binds us around it. In Croatia alone, about 40,000 employees all together may well be over 150 thousand Croatian citizens who are actively connected to Agrokor. Therefore, the government has decided to make a law which I hope will be able to discuss very quickly in the Parliament and as it is the Prime Minister himself and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister said that this law will be fully in accordance with the Constitution and its purpose will be to protect the national economy and the financial system of the Republic of Croatia. And that, we've heard already, is not some novelty in the European area, but also in the EU space. Similar models, laws, interventions in a legislative sense have also been reacted by a number of European countries. Therefore, the aim of the law and the government's intention is to preserve, stabilise the Croatian national economic system on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it is very important to stabilise the financial system that could be disturbed by these problems that are now around Agrokor. And what is very important to say is neither Croatia nor to defend nor to protect Ivica Todorovic, or the Todoric family, nor to take over the state's obligations, nor will this law transfer part of those obligations to the burden of taxpayers. However, the goal is to find ways to overcome this situation through creditors, creditors, suppliers along with the owner and management of the company. So that's what I'm going to end this part with. I would say that the aim is to protect Croatia's economic system, and in order to clear and protect jobs. What is also particularly pointed out is the statement by the first vice-president of the Russian state bank, Mr. Solovev, who, thus conveyed the media, said there was fakery in the financial results of Agrokor. And clearly, it is a very serious accusation and that this accusation should also be shown by the management, i.e. management, i.e. the owner of the company in order to hear and what they have to say about it. But what is particularly important here, given that the companies from Agrokor concert are listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, it then implies that such companies must carry out very serious, professional, systematic controls, supervision and audit. And since these companies, which are one of the strongest, are the most famous companies in Croatia, as I said, listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, are absolutely certain that their audit is carried out by renowned audit agencies, so it would be good and it would be desirable to hear what these renowned agencies have to say about this kind of serious statement made by the vice president of the Russian state bank. In that sense, we heard about this morning and the charges against the Minister of Finance. I can only say what he said, which is that while he was working in Agrokor that in his area of responsibility were not the finances of Agrokor. Therefore, I would stand there and put an end to the statement by the Minister of Finance and the charges that go to his expense. So let me get this straight. It is perfectly legitimate to expect the government to make a law that will create a legislative and institutional framework in order to enable the solution of the problems in Agrokor company. Not only in Agrokor, but in all system companies that have significant influence and significantly participate in the national economy and financial system of the Republic, the state. However, it would be irresponsible if the government had not tried to react with the law and do everything to preserve the entire Croatian financial system. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25094	Thank you. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25117	Mr. President, I know it's not common, and we're going to try to make a very, very big exception, the SDP club is asking a 10-minute break to discuss the problem of non-payment of salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25118	No payouts? I'm setting a break. Any other interested in taking a break? There isn't. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. It's 10.55 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.55 HOURS]] The SDP advocates' club had requested a break. Representative Miranda Mrsic will explain the reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today as the government deals with Agrokor and lex Agrokor forgot about the workers in Croatia, she forgot about the Borov workers. I note that Borovo's company, which celebrated 85 years ago, is one of the largest employees in the county. It is a company that is important for the Vukovar-Srijem County economy where the HDZ has been in power since the very beginning, which apparently systematically destroyed Borovo. Because how it could have happened that Borovo, who was following a peaceful reintegration, was in difficulty, and in 2012, came into a dubiosis of over 180 million kuna. Apparently, HDZ in that county doesn't want or won't let that company get on its feet. But by changing power in 2012, by changing management in the company, I note that the former director of Borova you have and an article in the paper was building a boat for himself in Borov while workers were starving and had nothing to pay for. A pre-profit settlement took place, Borovo ended in 2013 with a minus of 47 million kuna. 2014 5 million, and in 2015 it worked with a positive zero. There was a payout problem. The then government knew how to react and enable workers to get what they had earned. Because we have to admit it's low wages. These are minimum wage and workers were getting paid. What happened in 2016? What happens now in 2017 that Borovo has lost funds again, that workers in Borov can't even get that minimumer? The culprit is obviously the HDZ who today is in power who obviously doesn't know what to do with Borovo, because Borovo is small. 700 workers but 700 workers depended on the fates of many families and this minimumer who receive is what these people earn and that is income in individual families, the only income they have. The government forgets about Borovo, or maybe it wants to deliberately make things difficult, because it does not like the management of Borov that pulled Borovo out of the flu and made it possible for Borovo to move forward. Our president of the state is advocating beginners, so the borosana is coming back. This is all we know about these Borova and Borovo products has a perspective, it has a perspective that on the market in Croatia it earns, exports and that these people get even more pay than minimum wage. But here, for a month and a half, the workers in Borov didn't get paid. And yesterday at the workers' assembly, the director says there's nothing I can do about it, because the government doesn't want to stand behind Borov. I note that Borovo is 100 percent state-owned. How will those workers who travel every day come to pay for a bus ticket when they don't have one? They're funding the state because the state is a 100% owner. So, people, where's your heart? Borovo is Croatia's pride and Borovo should survive. Gentlemen of the county, gentlemen of the government, don't just deal with Agrokor you're working for the workers, you're also dealing with Borov, so bring Lex Borovo if we bring Lex Agrokor because that's what these workers deserve. It's not good that a state that owns 100% of Borov doesn't pay his salary. These are minimum salaries, which is a disgrace to the government of Mr Plenkovic, Mayor Galic and The mayor of Penave. [[The President's incursion: time. Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u25121	Thank you very much. We're going back to work. What we're going to discuss today is: The Final Bill on Confirmation of the Nairobi International Convention on the Elimination of Juveniles from 2007, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 113., Proposal for a decision on the selection of the deputy attorney general and the proposal for a minimum wage law, first reading, is proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. The first item is - The Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Nairobi International Convention on the Elimination of Juveniles from 2007, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 113., The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that this legislative proposal should also be discussed by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea and Transport, Mr Tomislav Mihotić's infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35287	Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, parliamentary representatives in Nairobi took place from 14 May to 18 May 2007, under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation, an international conference on the removal of the undermines resulting in the adoption of the International Convention on the Elimination of the Juveniles from 2007. The Convention entered into force on 14 April 2015. Since the Convention has entered into force and the Republic of Croatia has joined this international treaty to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Convention is namely an international instrument that prescribes uniform rules on the location, labelling and removal of undermines that may pose an exceptional risk to the safety of navigation and the marine environment and whose recovery often requires a large financial cost. In order to cover such costs, the Convention provides for compulsory insurance or other financial guarantee, such as the guarantee of a bank or other relevant institutions for all registered owners of a vessel of a gross tonage 300 and more. Since States Parties are authorised to issue certificates of the existence of such insurance pursuant to this Convention. The Croatian authorities could also issue such certificates after the entry into force of the Convention for the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has already taken over some of the fundamental provisions of this Convention. In particular, the provisions of Chapter 6 of the Maritime Code regulate the issue of the extraction and removal of submersibles and submersibles, as well as the rules applicable to the submersibles located in the territorial sea, inland seawaters protected by the ecological and fishing belt or in the continental belt of the Republic of Croatia. Those provisions of the Maritime Code are, in large part, already as previously stated in accordance with the Convention. This law therefore confirms the Convention with the aim of making it part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia so that, among other things, the Croatian competent authorities may issue evidence of the existence of insurance in accordance with the Convention, which is important for the operation of Croatian shipowners in international navigation. In addition, this law extends the application of the Convention beyond the Convention Area to the territorial sea and inland seawaters of the Republic of Croatia, which the Republic of Croatia will make a statement concerning Article 3(2) of the Convention when laying down its procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35288	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The first club to report for participation in the debate is the HDZ Representatives Club, the next club to report for participation in the debate. In their name will be the representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35289	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the 2007 proposal for a law on the approval of the Nairobi International Convention on the Elimination of Deforestations. As the Secretary of State said in his opening address and said, the purpose and task of this law is to ensure the rapid and effective removal of the undermines located outside the external borders of the territorial sea, with the possibility of extending the application in accordance with the Convention and to the territory of the parties involved in the territorial sea. Therefore, this law, or the Convention itself, allows for the extension of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to define, locate and remove the undermines located outside the borders of the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia to the economic zone or in the case of the Republic of Croatia to a protected eco-fishing band. It is good that, apart from the space other than the scope relating to the protected ecological fishing zone, Article 3 of this Act when the declaration of acceptance of this Convention is passed by the Republic of Croatia to the Secretary-General of the International Maritime Organisation and the fact that we will define with a special statement that Croatia extends the scope, not only of the ZEP provided for by the International Convention itself, but that this area and the scope of application will refer to the Croatian territorial sea, which is very good. It is certainly necessary to note and stress that the basis of the Maritime Code, which is not covered by this Convention, will also apply to internal seawater, which is very significant because the area between the Croatian islands, so the coast and Croatian islands is internal seawater, not territorial sea. And these are exactly the areas of navigation where, as a rule, there are such seagoing seabeds, so it is good that, because of the safety of the marine environment, the safety of the Adriatic Seas, I generally say internal seawaters, which is the area between the island and... especially along the coast, can also be protected by the Republic of Croatia, or protect and preserve the marine environment. This Convention, of course, also allows for the protection of shipowners. In fact, it has already been shown several times that the insurance policy provided by shipowners, a regular insurance policy when there is a harbinger, when there is a sinking of a boat, is not sufficient to cover all the costs incurred by shipowners who have to remove such a subsidisation, such a ship that is stranded and then problems arise for a coastal country that wants and wants to remove such a one-hole, and on the other hand, because the financial situation or insurance policy is not sufficient to cover all costs, problems arise in removing such subsidisations. It is this convention that now creates a commitment for shipowners to be able to classify and imply and remove the crashes through their insurance policy. This obligation arises for all ships over 300 tonnes of load capacity, so it will clearly cover a very large number of ships that sail under the Croatian flag. What is also well mentioned because it raises the question of costs, whether the implementation of this Convention will generate additional costs in the first row to Croatian shipmen. From our talks with Croatian shipowners, already their insurance policies are such as to enable them to cover these new obligations so that it will not additionally burden the financial operations of the shipowners, and clearly that this is one of the most important segments is the financial business of the shipowners themselves. Although the safety of navigation is today given the sophistication and equipment, navigation equipment is very rare, yet at this point, according to the International Maritime Organisation, it is said that this Convention will cover about 13,000 submersibles across the world by saying enough about potential environmental problems that may arise in the event that part of the fuel, marine fuel, part of the cargo from these ships is poured into one of the seas where such ships are located. What is very important is that this Convention implies that all the groundbreakings in the area and area of application of this Convention are also identified, so we expect that the Croatian maritime administration will react in the same way, although already already in many maritime maps there are groundbreakings that can lead to the threat of safety of navigation so that now, because this is the way that the legislative framework is created so as to get rid of that part of mine. So all in all, we at the HDZ Club support the adoption of this Convention, or the adoption and ratification of this Convention, which will clearly enable further protection of the Adriatic Sea, which will therefore protect the marine environment and, on the other hand, will oblige all shipowners, both our national shipmen and all other shipmen, to have with them an appropriate document that will enable the provision of all those costs necessary to remove such underminings. It is also necessary for the Croatian Maritime Administration to prepare for the issue of all those certificates which will clearly guarantee our shipowners that the obligations arising from this Convention have been met so that it is clearly possible to operate clearly on the world shipping market. In this respect, the HDZ Club will support this bill for all these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35290	HNS's club, HSU, also reported for participation in the debate. On their behalf will be the representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35291	Thank you, well-respected President of the Assembly, dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. So today we're talking about signing the Nairobi Convention on Subversives. The submersibles, if they are not removed, pose a major threat to navigation but, of course, to the environment, primarily to the sea. When it comes to territorial waters, every coastal country in whose territory, or in whose waters the submerged waters, tried as quickly and safely as possible to remove these ruins. However, they were very high costs and there was always a problem who would bear these costs. The insurance policy that the shipowners had often was not enough and sometimes it happened and that it was not known or could not be determined for a very long time about whose crash, or whose owner it was working under and whose flag it was, because we know what the situation was all about. The countries had different laws, and according to these laws, there was then no uniform, uniform rule of harmonisation on the location, marking and removal of the undermines. And that's why there's been a lot of discussion about it, and that's why in 2015, this Convention on the Elimination of Depth where it is now proposed that we sign it and apply it to us. What is still very important in this, on the day of signature, that is, after the adoption of this law, the Republic of Croatia will be able to issue evidence of the existence of insurance. Namely, all shipowners, or shipowners, must weigh more than 300 tonnes gross, tonage, in a way ensure complete and that part of the risk of removing the groundwater. Whether it will be a insurance policy only or any other guarantee issued by a bank or another credit institution is important that it covers this risk as well. We at the HNS and HSU club will, of course, support this part, because it certainly contributes to the fact that these ruins can be removed as easily as possible, as quickly as possible, especially for this reason, because it will no longer be as important to which state has the money, or which shipowner and what kind of insurance there is and whether it is covered. How important environmental protection is to us all. And some times just because there wasn't enough resources, it wasn't going to solve those problems. In this law, it is precisely defined and all of these, i.e. translated from English by articles, which means, it is really detailedly elaborated otherwise and in ours we have had the Law of the Sea and so far some parts already respected from that part. And here we have more in Article 3. The area and application where the Convention applies to the sub-region located in the Convention Area shall therefore be extended to the State Party applying the Convention and to the area within its territory including the territorial sea. including the territorial sea. So we believe that this good law, that is, that this International Convention from Nairobi on the Elimination of Depths from 2007 is what should be applied in Croatian legislation as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35292	The SDP advocates' club withdrew its participation in the debate. Individual participation in the debate, which was first reported by MP Josip Boris, follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35293	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I think we all need to accept together this proposal for a bill on the confirmation of this Nairobi International Convention on the Elimination of Depravation. I think that both the convention and the law that confirms it really has an importance for every state that calls itself a maritime state, and being a maritime state means that we are able to build our ships, that we have the necessary infrastructure to do so, that we have the necessary infrastructure to take care of the built ships means shipyards, the areas where we can maintain them, that we have our shipmen that are in their fleet, of course, have a certain number of ships. And certainly we have schools that teach sailors, which are trained by captains, sailors and certainly what is important to be a maritime state is also a rich tradition, a history that Croatia certainly as a state, a maritime state, the right maritime state has. I think everyone is always happy when the maritime transport system works and what might be most important is avoided, and what no one wants, and these are marine harassies, shipwrecks, everything that can happen in maritime transport, transport and what can cause regrets and human accidents. And, of course, not just accidents, but numerous victims. Although this system of maritime transport in the world is quite well-defined, we are aware that there are countries that do not have that standard of maritime transport. The Republic of Croatia certainly has its roof constitution – the Maritime Code, as well as many sublaws, as well as numerous laws governing the maritime transport system. In countries that do not have it, there are many accidents and accidents. Unfortunately, I also say with a number of victims. They're fresh memories of 2014, South Korea. One ferry carrying 470 passengers with a wave of high school students who turned over on a tourist trip where, say, 304 people died. These days we're witnessing the extraction of that ferry from the water. All we can think of is Costa Concordie, who crashed near here in the neighbouring country, a shipwreck of 13.1.2012, where 32 people were killed and 3229 passengers and 1023 crew members were killed at the time. The extraction of it from the sea was one of the most demanding maritime operations in history. Of course, we all remember and know the most sounding sea hararium of the Titanic ship, which was filmed by a number of movies where thousands of people were killed. We, in the Adriatic Sea to which this Convention applies, also remember some hawari and tragedies of merchant ships. Fortunately, to the satisfaction of all our boatman Jadrolini, the state shipman of his history notes that he never had a single victim, and that is something that every shipman can raise himself with, and so does Jadrolini. We remember in 1999 and the Borak ship that sank near Obunjan. He was carrying a cement back then, unfortunately, and two people were killed at the time. There are also cases of sound cases such as the 1984 Brigita Montanari ship carrying dangerous loads. Let us remember and say in the state in our inner part, the inner sea of numerous harariums such as the ships Marko Polo Seline, but also the recent case that took place on the island of Ciovo which was very interested in the Croatian public. These were three ships that were tied up in Kaštel. After a big storm, they were all over the banks of Ciova three ships Vranjic, Krka and Orebic. Their extraction and all the work took a really long time. This Convention is currently helping in such situations and clearly clarifies the dangers that are threatened by and for navigation, but also for the marine environment. I think that's why it is necessary to adopt, because it offers us uniform rules and procedures for removing and what is important and paying the costs themselves, which are often the reason why the ruins remain in the places of the hawari. This Convention defines undermining as a consequence of a maritime accident. That means a submerged ship or part of a ship or just one object from that ship and a ship that is obviously going to sink or fall. We in Croatia have a number of those or such ships that could enter this definition and expect something of this to happen in the future. There are related interests spoken of by this Convention, which are primarily listed in the maritime activities of the State. These ruins can often be used in part of tourism as certain tourist attractions. There are interests in offshore and underwater infrastructure. First of all, the interest applies to the health of the population, but also to the protection of the environment where I again cite an example from Ciova where it was important to remove those ships, so that it would not be created by conditions for people to function there normally. In its content, it determines the scope, which is something the colleague Bačić said and means more to the state area including the territorial sea, and very important to us are the internal seas which I have cited several examples of which have just happened in the area of navigation between the Croatian islands that we have indeed in large numbers. This Convention defines exceptions, reporting of the crashes themselves, their location and designation of the owners, and certainly what is the most important insurance and guarantee for ships that are heavier or above 300 bt. I think it's something that we really need to accept as well as this provision that speaks of limitations, which is that the right to compensation can be requested within three years of reporting itself or determining dangers. I think this convention is helping us as a maritime state, and I expect us to accept it in this House because we have indeed examples that exist today and that will happen in the future, and which will then possibly make it easier for our shipmen, but also for the state to be able to respond in the area that defines this very law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35294	Representative Branko Bačić reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35295	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Boris, you have rightly mentioned and commended me to a national shipman who sails mainly in the national navigation along the Croatian coast which is one of the most divorced coasts and despite the fact that the daily ships of Jadrolinia have over a thousand and a half, two thousand commitment operations and rebates that would tell me about me, it is not until now in the history of Jadrolinija, which is larger and longer than 60 years there have been such one hasaria that would cause the death of its passengers or crew members, it should certainly be commended. You also mentioned this section that refers to a number of handicrafts, sea accidents that occurred in the Adriatic Sea, and the fact is that, I should say something in the beginning on behalf of the club, should create one list of catalogues, all of these disasters that are a danger to the safety of navigation, and on the other hand are a potential danger to the protection of the environment. It is likely that the ministry is working on this, but I think that, in addition to a record that is mostly made in maritime maps and official records of ministries or port captains, it would be good to create a sort of action plan in which at least those ruins that are truly unacceptable in the ecological sense, because those that are a danger to the safety of navigation are largely removed, but those that pose a threat to the preservation of the diversity of the Adriatic Sea should be removed as soon as possible. I know it costs money, it's significant expenses, but it's one way to further protect and make the Adriatic Sea a better environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35296	Reply to the replica, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35297	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, I agree, although I say this convention in one section predicts that exactly the area to which it applies and which speaks about the ruins may well be very easily valorised by tourism. Use it. And I think that the Ministry of the Sea together and with the Ministry of Tourism can make one such catalogue that we really know what happened in our sea and what else we can offer to those who want to come to our country, and these are certainly tourists, while taking care of what is most important, about protecting the environment, human health and what this Convention solves, and certainly acceptable costs for sailors, but also for all those involved in maritime traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35298	A representative, Goran Maras, also called for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we talk about the Nairobi International Convention on the Elimination of Subversives, I must point out that what is important for the Republic of Croatia is to accept such conventions because of the exposure and risks our coast faces for certain potential and environmental problems. We have seen on several occasions a situation where for months and even months several of them have been happening that certain ruins are not moving, they become and become a tourist attraction at some time and may be interesting for a month, two days, but of course they should be able to recover in the long term, especially if they are perhaps also having some kind of having some kind of having some kind of potential behind it and an ecological disaster. On the other hand, the question is, why is it that ten years from this Nairobi International Convention comes up with a bill? It would be good if we had reacted before, but it is important to say that Croatia, with its coast, islands and developed fleet, whether tourist ships or commercial or commercial ships carrying certain goods around the world, must have such a document developed at the highest standard possible. And definitely as an agent and as chairman of the Environmental Protection Committee, I support it and will support it, of course, when it comes to adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35300	A representative of Siniša Hajdas Doncic will also apply for the final word in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35301	Vice President of the Parliament. Good afternoon, everyone! The SDP will, of course, support the Law on Confirmation of the Nairobi International Convention on the Elimination of Juveniles from 2007. I'll say a few reasons. So, except that the Convention itself is an instrument that prescribes uniform rules on locating but also removing undermines that can pose an exceptional danger to the safety of navigation and to the protection of the environment, i.e. the marine environment and where the recovery is, in fact, looking for or demanding a large financial cost. E right through the testimony, right through ratification of the Convention, flag countries, so which ships are obliged to have secured and resecured ships. So the same thing happened to us two, three years ago, a similar system, here's Mr. Luksha, sitting right from the secretary of state, and it's a very big problem to coordinate insurance companies from the Netherlands most often, especially if there are 1st and 2nd mortgages on business banks on board ships and then what happened to us in the Republic of Croatia on Ciovo happens to us. So it's been 6, 7 months that you could actually legally, legally, the ruins that are... At one point even became tourist attractions or attractions because tourists of course used them to jump into the sea and even the locals at one point complained that one part of the tourist season would fail because they became so said I would be regionally recognizable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But of course that didn't solve the problem. The problem has been solved by the fact that, at that moment, there was happiness, so the sailing of which the ships crashed, means that she had insurance and reassurance, and that in this particular struggle, which will continue was a very important and dominant role of the Ministry of the Sea Ministry, which in fact then co-ordinates the impact with the insurance and resecuritizers. And here I'd just like to end up perhaps pointing out an even more important topic where I don't know how we're going to find a common answer to that, and that's actually your problem with little bumps in the tiny little lights, so where, unfortunately, so far, there's no financial instrument to get rid of them. So, unfortunately, and most often, they fall under the burden of local administration and self-government, especially in a maritious area that doesn't have much resources to remove these ships. So this may be a new challenge for the ministry or a new-old challenge for the ministry to solve the problem of smaller ships that actually remain immersed in the Adriatic ports. Here is the conclusion, so the SDP Representatives' Club will support ratification of the 2007 Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35302	On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Tomislav Mihotic will also give the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35303	Thank you. The Convention was implemented through the Maritime Code in 2013 into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. It has therefore begun to act on it and has entered into force on 14.4.2015. I can say some of the results and some of the activities carried out by port captains from 2013 to 2017. They located a total of 41 sub-bases of which j6 was completely abandoned by the owners. They successfully carried out and monitored the implementation of 5 submersible removal activities while the 3 submersibles were managed to prevent sea pollution. Currently, surveillance measures are in place to remove or remove 10 undermines. Of these 3 wandering through Castle Bay 2 ended up in Marjan Park, so they became a special danger and my predecessors brought out the way they were solved and recovered. That's it, that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35304	Representative Branko Bačić reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35305	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I have also said in the opening statement and you have now confirmed that the maritime code as an area of application of this Convention has already been defined inland water. I emphasized that because I didn't say this intro and it's very important for the prominent. According to the European Aviation Safety Agency, it has been established by observation and analysis over the last 3 years that 3 times as many maritime accidents have been in internal sea waters than on the high seas and as prescribed by this Convention as even in the territorial sea. So somewhere around a thousand and a hundred, which isn't small, there's a lot of maritime accidents that happen on the open sea, somewhere so much is about a thousand and a hundred in the territorial sea. But what to mention is that the inner seawaters that are closest to the coast, where such pollutions are the most endangered by the coast and the maritime environment 3030. So in 3 years, most of these seagulls, the accident occurred in the inner seawaters. Therefore, it is very important that the Maritime Code in that part prescribes the treatment of shipowners whose ships are experiencing haparia in those areas, in those sea areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35306	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35307	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Nairobi International Convention on the Elimination of Depths from 2007, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 113. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is over. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Nairobi International Convention on the Elimination of Juveniles from 2007. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. 112 votes for, one abstention and no one against. I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35308	We're going back to work. The next item is - Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Deputy Advocate General is the Proposer of the Advocate General on the basis of Article 12. The law of the Attorney General. The material was delivered to the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Laura Vidovic, attorney general. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35309	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. A public call for the selection of one of the deputy attorney generals was published in the National No. 7/17 of 25 January 2017. The procedure was carried out in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman, which was prescribed that the Advocate General proposes to the Croatian Assembly of Deputy Advocates-Generals within 30 days of the expiry of the deadline for the application of a public call. Nine candidates came to the public call, and after the procedure I propose to the Croatian Assembly to elect Maja Kevic as deputy attorney general. Mrs. Kevic is a graduate lawyer who meets all the conditions prescribed by the Law on the Ombudsman. It is really highly motivated and shows a marked sensitivity for the field of human rights and I am sure that it will be a great reinforcement in the work of the office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35310	Do the reports of the board want to take a word? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first responders' club called for the Living Wall and the SNAGA, since they are not there, they lose their right. The next club of MPs who called for the debate is the HDZ Representatives' Club, representative Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35311	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The committee in charge supported the election of the Deputy Attorney's Office so that the HDZ Club would support it. We know that the Attorney General's Office acts within the framework of its competences prescribed by the Constitution, the Law on the Ombudsman, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism. There have been some complaints about the office's work lately, but it's not a topic right now, I'm just saying. In this regard, I would like to say that as far as general work is concerned, as for each office and for the Office of the Attorney General, it is legitimate to review the effectiveness of the system, but we see that this appointment is completely transparent and in accordance with the procedure. One of the important issues is when we talk about the Attorney General's Office is how many of these bodies, and we know that we have four lawyers' offices in Croatia and three government offices responsible for human rights, and human rights and anti-discrimination deals with the Attorney General, so it's legitimate to ask the question, how much do these bodies cooperate? What is still important here to say because the topic of the Ombudsman is that at EU level there is a tendency to combine human rights and anti-discrimination bodies, however, there is no obligation to do so. And in my view, more important than formal body mergers is practically co-operation and common functionality because these are fundamental human rights that are indivisible. So in any case this is a broader topic, the HDZ Club accepts the appointment proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35312	On behalf of the SDP club, the representative of Gordan Maras will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about this proposal, it is safe and teaming up the staff of the Ombudsman, or whatever they do, that our citizens have a greater opportunity to protect certain rights which, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, have, or to improve the work of the Ombudsman, which we in the SDP Representatives Club are estimating is excellent and we are satisfied with how the Ombudsman works. But given the completion of the place or departure of a colleague, the new colleague we have here as a proposal by Mrs Maja Kevic will surely allow this work to be completed and further improved compared to what has been so far. The SDP advocates' club will support the decision to elect the deputy attorney general, and on this side we want to give full support to the entire team's work. And we believe that Croatian citizens still have a lot of things that the state does not comply with, or a lot of, laws which unfortunately apply positively to the Republic of Croatia but do not apply in practice. So we also have a job situation, we have an environmental situation or environmental protection situation, we see that many people are looking for their rights or protection from the attorney general. We have a classic situation with people deprived of freedom, so that's where we should also work to advance certain things. So our people have to have a high-quality occupier and his team that can respond to all the needs they have. We are quite often in a position to, unfortunately, not react quickly enough to some of the things we should react to. Here is, for example, the employment of the state service on the rights that our citizens have, which unfortunately is not respected. When we look at environmental or environmental protection, a situation that is still not enough in the minds of people has reached the laws that we have applied, and then sometimes some parties look at everything through the prism of the current cost. It means when we talk about renewable energy sources or what is being spent at this point, and what will bring benefits to our citizens in the long run already than what the current cost is and on this side I think that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially with regard to environmental protection, still have major objections to the work of state bodies and institutions and inspections. I'm going to say another example of what the citizens are constantly calling me, and I believe the attorney general, it's about air pollution in Slavonski Brod, where here we're still waiting for the government's opinion as if it's some last hole in the play, the last topic citizens have a right to, which is that they have clean air and that the state provides them with it in their city and that people don't get sick. So there is no understanding of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it is an emergency, although this House, the House of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament, or the Croatian Parliament, has decided that the law will take place in an emergency procedure in the first and second readings. The Croatian Government simply still ignores this law and does not send an opinion and I, on this side, see the Ombudsman, please and the citizens ask her to hire our citizens in Slavonski Brod to finally deserve to live in a city where there is clean air, where people do not get sick due to pollution that unfortunately happens because of the refinery in Slavonski Brod. And that when MPs in the Croatian Parliament in this case SDP's Club of Representatives proposed a law that would allow it to happen that everything does not move to political outsmart, we accepted the accelerated procedure but here we will not give an opinion, we have accepted the accelerated procedure but the law will come into debate in half a year, so simply things don't happen. And ecology and environmental protection is, in my opinion, an area that may be one of the most powerful in terms of protecting our citizens' rights to a quality and healthy life, I am talking about Slavonski Brod, I am talking about many other situations that are happening in the Republic of Croatia, and I am convinced that the attorney general will also react more with his team and perhaps with this lady who will be the deputy attorney general. I invite all citizens and citizens of Slavonski Brod to write to the attorney general, to write to the government, to write to the Croatian Parliament. Because if they don't do it before the local elections now, believe me, as the president walked with Mr. Lavrov at a meeting in Germany, things will be forgotten very quickly and now it's time to show their voice and support those who want to solve the problem in Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County. So right now, at this point, it's time to react. If you are writing to the occupier, if you are writing, if you are writing to the Croatian Assembly, representatives, now respond, get on the roads, tell your opinion and try to make sure you have the right to clean air. We did what we could, we proposed a law but ignored us by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I hope that we will not be ignored by the President of the Parliament and that we will have that law in the debate before the local elections. Because the signal that the law goes into debate after the local elections is a signal that they are essentially pulling the nose of Croatian citizens and that they have not put public interest ahead of private interest. And that's what I'm trying to say here, and that's what's important is that people know, that they can address the occupier, her deputy to Mrs. Maja Kevic, who will probably be elected on Friday, and that's where they can file their legitimate claim to live in a city with no fear of their children getting sick, that their children have problems because the data we hear every day in the media is exactly the data that they have to worry about and the occupier and future her deputy. And politicians shouldn't be around to the occasion, so I said, adopt the law into an accelerated procedure and then never, almost never put it on the agenda. And that is why in the future I will support more and more, and it is important here to say that some in the Croatian Assembly are large clubs and do not support the Ombudsman, although the lady is doing an excellent job because she does not take selective things and not look at selective things but solves things in a way that is expected by the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and these things are unfortunately in our country every day more and more. Both air and environmental pollution and unfortunately people who cannot achieve the right to live in Croatia, work here, earn their salary. I can't realize my perspective here, so they're going to the Republic of Croatia, and I've gotten along quite often with my colleague Bulja when he talked about these things. Unfortunately, little is now talking about it and the problem is getting bigger and bigger, regardless of your position and what you have more responsibility for now, it still needs to be talked about, especially changing things so that our people in the Republic stay here and start their lives and families and that eventually Croatia's perspective would be better and not just sometimes someone remembers the Ministry of Demography and then thinks they've solved the problem. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't solved anything, unfortunately nothing is solved, there are over 300 thousand blocked in the Republic of Croatia, and there's nothing to do here, HDZ has made an announcement in the election campaign that it will make certain laws and changes in relation to what was before, nothing has been done. People call, write, Madam Attorney, and tomorrow they'll write to the Deputy Attorney General to try to protect them so they can do anything to have certain rights that unfortunately they don't have in the Republic of Croatia today. And on the other hand, the stronger the team was, the better and better the team that would help the occupier do his job, the more and more he would get our support. Thank you very much, and we support, the SDP Representatives' Club supports the proposal to appoint Mrs. Maja Kevic as Deputy Assistant Attorney General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35314	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35315	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you've warned of a very important matter and that's ecology. And when you say and you had the opportunity to take a number of measures, so I can tell you a detail, not long ago when you were a minister. Along the Cetina River, a waste disposal was planned in one mining mine from the Long War, an industrial one... that would poison the entire Cetino area, i.e. The whole stream of drinking water where half a million people use that water drink, and in the tourist season even more. Then your minister, Mr. Zmajlović, basically said that this... carcinogen, that's healthy and that's basically well he was connected to then... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The mob, while the people were protesting for 7, 8 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We barely fought it. I led the protests, and I'm proud of it. We wouldn't have drinking water today. So when you warn this government you must know that the waste management plan was passed in the Government of the Republic on the proposal of Minister Dobrović very good law and acceptable law where what was to be passed is ten years old. It's from decommissioning, from preserving the environment. So, the attorney general's here. We need to give her support to protect the citizens and that the reactions of the citizens to address the citizens should be strengthened. I don't know the structure right now, I didn't look at it. You should know better. But attacking only someone who's been here since recently, and you're justifying yourself with everything they've done in the previous period, and the Agrokor case has been happening during you. Todoric's loss didn't grow yesterday since we did, but during you he grew. You've done nothing, so don't blame others. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Let's get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35316	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35317	Well, Mr. Bull is basically a democracy that the opposition requires a position to settle the matter. You've now made one logical inversion. So you're asking the opposition not to ask the position to do something. And who should we ask? I mean, it's the logic of things since yesterday. You haven't been around since yesterday, have you, Mr. Bull? So you came to power last year, so a year and two months. Only if you give up Oreshkovic's government and say no, you have nothing to do with us. And I see you're an honest man and you don't give up. So for a year and two months, you're already in position, so tell me when that moment is when we should start asking me a question. Say when? In two years? For three? When do we meet on an alka? When? Well, you have a responsibility. It's logical that we're going to ask the government to do something, although it's illogical for you to always justify yourself in one way and the same way that you were in power. We were in power. Yes, we were four years old and the situation in Croatia was much better than it was in 2011. And as for privatisation here you have colleagues from HDZ who were very active in the 1990s when Croatian privatisation was emerging. Look at the pictures of the free train, you have, you've been to the promotion of this movie around Agrokor. Look at the pictures, and you'll see the members that the parties were most excited about and printed and collected in the money hat, and then you'll see that you're talking to the wrong person again and you're talking to the wrong party. They're your pals, so I'm asking you, Mr. Bull, we're going to criticise the government because it's normal, and your pals don't give us anything but you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35318	Thank you. The next is the replica of distinguished representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35319	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you have also used this debate on the deputy attorney general to open and extend the topic to what you think is important and it is quite permitted in the debates, although it is purely about the appointment of Ms. Kevic as the deputy attorney general. And then you invited the citizens of Slavonski Brod to write to the government because the government is doing nothing about pollution in Slavonski Brod and the work of Rafineria Brod. The fact is, the government is working. We have a representative question from Mr Tomislav Panenic of 23.3rd response from the government that has clearly counted all government activities over the past 6.7 months and what the government has done to resolve this issue in 8 activities. I'd really like you to tell me now what you did during that period because it's not a problem since yesterday. As Government and your Environment Minister Mr. Zmajlović did as well as you as Minister, you supported the government that these people today have better or better quality air. Just so you can answer us and it won't be in that famous sentence holding the water until the masters leave. Now, you answer me what you've been doing, no matter what our responsibility is to make improvements there for all the people of that city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35320	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35321	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric, for letting me score. As if we had agreed before you would tell me to point, while my colleague Panenic wrote letters and questions to the government, and she answered him, I wrote the law and referred him to the procedure and asked for your support to solve the problem of Slavonski Brod. He was in the procedure and the SDP Representatives' Club proposed a law allowing JANAF to prove the adverse effect on the health of people in Slavonski Brod not to distribute that oil that goes to the Bosnian Ship. Here's very specific. Thank you very much for asking. The answer I've given you is probably satisfying and you'll support it, because I'm not satisfied with writing questions and comforting and patting on the shoulder. So I specifically want to do things and I want people to feel it on their skin. So on the other hand, what Mr. Panenic asked Mr. Dobrovic and someone there agreed to the answer that they were meeting. There are probably 5.6 coordination meetings between partners, and then the idea of gasification that will happen by 2020. So this is the message of Minister Dobrovic, Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ to the citizens of Slavonski Brod. Be patient by 2020. Well, I don't want to! I want to figure this out right now. And so as you write questions and enquiries and comfort one another as here you see we're doing something here, there's been a lot of meetings, you're expressing solidarity, etc. I specifically wrote the law, referred it to the procedure, thank you for supporting the accelerated procedure to go first and second reading unitedly. But now I warn that the government has not been responding to that law for the third week. I want this discussed in the Croatian Parliament and adopted before the local elections and to allow people to solve the problem. That's what I want. I don't want to text, I want to solve problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35322	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, listening to your presentation, which was not in connection with the appointment of the deputy attorney general, I have obtained the impression, and I believe the entire Croatian public that the problem with the Brod Refinery started five months ago because you are talking about it in the name of the club how you passed the law, with the right that the air in Slavonski Brod and Slavonski-ship County has been polluted, but you have confused with the mind that this problem with the Brod Refinery has been for many years. It would be correct, although I do not expect from the SDP club correctness, if we were to say, former Minister Zmajlovic, who for four years knew about the problem and me as president of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature which you are now, has not delivered reports for four years. And I, as chairman of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, waited four years for Minister Zmajlović and the government to have mercy and to deliver not only that report but also the report on waste management and management in the Republic of Croatia. And I did not welcome not a plenary session, but I did not welcome Mr. Zmajlovic, a worthy Minister of Environmental and Nature Protection whose jurisdiction had just been dealing with environmental and air conservation measures in Slavonski Brod. And when you talk about your law that you have proposed and you submit to the President of the Parliament that this law has not yet come to order, I will remind you after we finish this debate we will discuss a law proposed by the SDP club. And then I return to my position as former probationary, that I personally wrote a few laws at the time of your government and did not wait to discuss them in office. And here we are after a month of discussing the law that the SDP Club has proposed right now when this point is over. So, a little bit of correctness, let's step away, I know it's a pre-election campaign for all of us to have this stage for our own promotion, but let's be a little bit more correct when we talk then let's watch how you did when you were in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35324	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35325	Mr. Bacic, I'm not going to go into the facts you put out and the things you put out in your replica because I don't want to talk about who's to blame. Let's not talk about who's guilty in Croatia anymore, let's let whoever's to blame. Someone could make a mistake, so we made a mistake. Here, if that pleases you now, let Maras blame everything in Croatia, only if we solve the problem. Here's my fault because the boat hasn't solved the problem for five years, it's Maras' fault we didn't do anything, Maras didn't do what he could, but let's do what we can now. Do you accept my sacrifice and that I accept it's my fault? But just let us help people. Here, I'm asking you to do it. Please, I'm looking you in the eye and I'm asking you to do everything you can to make that law, and I accept that you didn't get an answer to your questions, and three years ago, whoever you wrote to, I'm going to take that blame. But what I want is for us to agree here today to help people in Slavonski Brod and not talk about who's to blame anymore. And I don't want to be in your situation in four years, and then you get up and I say look, Mr. Branko Bacic, I wrote the laws, and you didn't put them on. I don't want to. Let's change this Croatia Mr. Branko, let's help discuss this and help people in Slavonski Brod to keep their air clean. Let's put that law on the table to argue and to do more finally because people don't have any of it. So the people in Slavonski Brod don't have any of this replica of yours who's to blame. Let's discuss who's responsible. And I'm going to give up my credit for this law again to you and I'm going to tell everyone Mr. Branko Bačić is credited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35326	Thank you. When I took this place now, what, half an hour ago from the President of the Parliament, I thought I was in another movie because I knew that now it was up to me to propose a decision to elect the deputy attorney general. And as far as I can tell, everyone's talking about everything else except that. Please, let's concentrate on the subject, unfortunately this applies only to the last speaker and the replicas that will likely be on him. So I'm going to give my word in an individual debate to Honorary Representative Mira Buljo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed Attorney General. We're talking about the appointment of a deputy, and the very word of the attorney general means defending the regiment. Today, in legal uncertainty and mistrust in the judiciary and other institutions, of course, citizens will have a number of reactions and enquiries to the attorney general. And I am personally interested in the capacity of human resources and others to respond to all the demands of our citizens as the potential of the attorney general? Is the fact that there are colleagues before they say that people have numerous reactions, numerous injustices, many rights that can't simply be delivered to the attorney general. And, of course, we as Parliament, and most of all, the Government should all see together whether it is able to solve all of this at all or to look at the attorney general, we are now talking about the deputy, the deputy, but it is very important that capacity in the insecurity of people because we see what is happening on all matters. Here's a colleague earlier on, talking about the environment itself, people are, of course, disappointed, if by Law 2015, at the very end of the government of Zoran Milanovic, a law was passed where wind power plants were granted, renewable energy sources what our citizens would pay a lot more than that the right of our many citizens on their houses or buildings to make solar plants and that they were within those quotas, that solarists meant in their personal houses and buildings. However, they did not enter that quota, which is otherwise prescribed 31. 12 in the middle of the night, but of course, it suits foreign investors. And of course, lobbys in both energy and other issues have a much greater impact than our citizens would, for example, have. wanted to have a solar on his roof and thus function. So I have such an example that three years ago about its cost without any incentive, a solar power plant on its roof, and it just can't get in with all the demands it can't get into that quota, but that's why it got in, the wind power plants got in neatly and to care for 31. 12 in the middle of the night. So one big injustice towards people who should be encouraged by the state to have everyone on the roofs of the solar system by fulfilling that quota and our citizens would be much more relieved in this difficult situation because it certainly would be much cheaper for them, however, as it is visible in this case to foreign investors. Of course, I recently mentioned a number of injustices within trade relations, within and all of these relationships, because people complain daily about courts, me as a representative, and most likely colleagues, a mere advocate of slow justice, the exercise of labour rights, property rights, various other rights. Of course, there is also the key to achieving, the capacity of the attorney general. Do you even have a chance to deal with these problems? Do you have the possibility to read all these requirements in Croatia today? Because injustices are huge. Here is only this law passed by the Government of Zoran Milanovic, at the last session through social measures that should have been appropriated by foreign investors, i.e. The wind, wind power plants that the Croatian state must pay from the budget this year, next year a billion and a half kuna and in 2019 billion and 600. So 5 billion kunas if it had been invested, that every house, every household could have a solar power plant small, could have its own energy source, a much richer family, would have met the quota of renewable energy. It's just one example of how he behaves. And let's see here in the case of what's happening around Agrokor now, we see that our planting grandmothers, I said recently, people who deal with agriculture if they get caught in the market to sell their onions, chapels, beans or other, their domestic products to end up in jail while these tycoons, whose politics have made it easy to bring the state into collapse but the system is ultimately looking for a solution to save them. They need not be saved, they need to be put where they belong, they need to be taken away from everything and then they will feel the legal certainty of all our citizens and that is the foundation and investment and production because we see that everything has been destroyed just because of the convenience and legal uncertainty. Another example of agriculture, for example, our numerous OPGs reported to the EU funds and these were funds for the OPGs to survive our people in Slavonia. However, similar to Mr. Todorovic and similar to him opened up the sister's numerous OPGs, and then Minister Jakovina naturally allocated those funds to these large concerts, and therefore 50,000 people closed their farms and went with the entire families to other countries. So there was a violation of the law and, of course, the Minister of Agriculture when it was signed in the end sought immunity from Mr Romic here to remove his immunity because he refused to allow the previous minister to destroy Slavonia. We've got a situation like that. And of course the farmer, the worker, doesn't exercise his rights. The general question is whether we have workers and workers as workers today. And who's fighting? Do we have unions and do they fight enough for union rights or are there a number of unions that are inside, essentially more fighting for employers? It means one chaos. And of course it's very difficult for you to even answer your daily questions. So can you tell us here how many daily complaints you have? You're the attorney general, you have all this information. And how much state should provide you with people, potentials and resources both in the central and the entire region of the regional Republic of Croatia. Because I know personally where I come from how many injustices there are against many... The companies of Dalmatia, Auto Transport, Cetinka and many other companies where people have failed to exercise their rights where their processes last for 10 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's an example of Split... Some have earned the right to their wages and some have not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's how we have countless companies and, of course, who they're going to go to, the occupier, and they're all like my colleague Maras said, they're looking for the injustice of people, but they're the injustices of all governments and things that aren't solved. Even today. If today we don't resolve your demands for you so that you can even do it by the constitutional law your role, so this debate is pointless. The key problem is whether you can even take it on a daily basis and read it, let alone solve it and analyze the case by case. And the public expects of you of course what a more frequent reaction to the media, the public to see problems that cannot be solved by the injustices and insecuritys they feel in this society where you can do a lot, a lot of influence on positive processes as well as on this legislative body and on executive authorities at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35328	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35329	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. In your presentation, you mentioned some things that I thought might be used for political reasons, and now I see that you are more and more convinced of them and I don't know if it's because of the feeling of someone subjective or because of the lack of information. Because I have a feeling that you are one of the biggest opponents of renewable energy sources in the Republic of Croatia. So our citizens have the right to live in a sustainable society that will take care of the beauty of the country in the future, the quality of air, the environment etc. And in every debate, you face renewable energy sources. So you're talking about legal certainty, and then your minister is preparing excise duties on renewable energy sources. Imagine this variant and legal certainty for investors in the Republic of Croatia and not just around wind power plants. He intends to cover the bio-mass and to tax everything more lively with excise duties and to collect the production of people, or not to be at the level at which they planned and how they owed. And those aren't margins I don't know what kind. But I want to tell you, so try to understand that it's not just the current cost. So the cost can also be in the future for 10, 15, 20 years of pollution when we buy quotas and pay quotas that we must as a country related to air pollution. So it's all to be calculated. It's not just the cost of that second. And on the other hand, I would also like the Ministry of Environment and Energy to do a little better with mathematics, because then they probably wouldn't say they wouldn't collect electricity and gas, and then the gas and the electricity are expensive and our Prime Minister Plenkovic relativeises it as though it doesn't matter. It's only 230 kuna a year. These are the things you should be dealing with, and less about fighting renewable energy sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35330	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35331	Well, sustainable development and renewable energy sources are something that is most important and that Croatia has potential and resources. So, since I come from the very area where the potentials of renewables are very large and both the Cetina rivers and other rivers and other renewable sources. However, I am now speaking legal uncertainty, so I cited an example of how a man four years ago put a solar charger on his roof 30 kW and asked for it to be within that quota. Man couldn't get in. But very quickly, it is suitable for huge corporations working for the wind, at least to reach that quota. And now we're going to have to get out of the budget, i.e. The government of the Republic of Croatia, citizens this year, will pay one billion kuna, and in three years, 5 billion kuna. So throughout the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian state could put on roofs, i.e. allow people to have a renewable energy source on their roofs, private houses or buildings, to have solar. And we have, therefore, favored foreign investors and in this way that on the roofs people are allowed quota, and they are not allowed, in fact, to benefit large investors. And this way every family, every household would have less costs and would be an independent population. The independent population, the higher the energy and energy costs in this situation, and they would meet the quotas, rather than favour foreign investors what the Croatian state must pay. And that an ordinary man who throws at his house can't get into the quota, because it opens at 31.12th quota and is divided by those who have more money, those who have left out the ministries, and that's how it worked, and you can check it out. I'm quoting this example here from my neighborhood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35332	Thank you very much. I especially thank you for keeping my colleagues strictly on the subject of the election of the deputy attorney general. And now I'm going to ask the esteemed attorney general, Mrs. Laura Vidovic, who will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the support and trust in the decision to elect Mrs. Kevic as deputy attorney of the staff. As for your question about the possibilities, or the capacity to work the office, I absolutely thank you for that question. This is very important and important to me, and this opportunity is also important to me that I can answer it. Although the deadline for handing over my annual report to the Croatian Parliament for 2016 is tomorrow, it mentions all the topics that have been mentioned here today and much more including environmental and air protection and the problem in Slavonski Brod and the issue of waste and agriculture and justice. And indeed many, many other topics, especially as regards the availability of human rights in rural areas in Croatia, where we see great disproportionate and unequal development. And it's certainly part of the report and the question of office capacity, so I wouldn't be getting very detailed into that answer right now. But I can tell you that back in the four years since I was appointed to the Attorney General the number of cases we're working on in the office compared to 2012 was over 85% higher in 2016. Our capacities have been steadily growing all these years, but not by 85%. So, do we need more capacity, more resources, more people absolutely and certainly yes. This large number of increases in complaints is the result of surely our proactive work. The fact that the area offices are open, that we work more actively with the media, making careful efforts not to be sensational but meaningful, and when there really is a need for this, field tours, conversations with people who come, write, call everyone we are trying to help as much as we can when there is an area where there is help, when not immediately referring to the competent body that is best positioned for it. I must then take immediate advantage of the opportunity to thank the team in the office and in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split who are really trying very hard. Extremely strong forces are investing in adequately responding to citizens in such an increased number of complaints. And here I hope that the capacity in terms of decommissioning from the state budget and the approvals we need in order to hire additional employees will follow the need which through an increased number of complaints comes. And as I said much more details about all these topics will be in the annual report. The only thing I might be able to add and thank myself and invite citizens to this opportunity to report as much as possible when they need my office and that we will really do everything we can to help because the fact that there aren't a lot of people doesn't mean that human rights violations are little, just means we don't know enough about it. So it is in our best interest to have as much work as possible because this means that we can best give suggestions and recommendations or warnings and help people achieve their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35334	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. It is now up to the motion for a decision on the election of the deputy attorney general. He's the lawyer's mother-in-law's mother-in-law. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of the deputy attorney general. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. 107 votes for, 3 abstentions, none against. I find that most of the votes have been made a decision to elect the deputy attorney general. Article 13 The Law on the Ombudsman is laid down to be an attorney general, i.e. the Ombudsman and her deputies, before taking office, to swear before the Croatian Parliament. After reading the text of the oath, the deputy attorney general says the word, "I swear." The text of the oath reads: “I swear that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will exercise my duty in the justice, honor and conscience of the best interests of the citizens.” Dear Maja Kevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35336	I swear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35337	I congratulate the new deputy attorney general and wish her success in performing this honorable and responsible duty. We will continue with the session on Wednesday 5 April at 9.30 p.m. with the addition of the agenda and after that discussion on the point of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency and the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend. The session was interrupted at 12.45 hours. Now we'll move on to the agenda at the next point, which is: - Proposed minimum wage law, first reading, P.Z. Number 57. The SDP representative club shall be proposed on the basis of Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The debate on this legislative proposal will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading, since a proposal for a proposal to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure is not accepted when setting out the agenda. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go. I also welcome the Minister of Labour and Pension System.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35339	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us and who share the fate of those people in Croatia, which is a fifth of our citizens living below the poverty line. We must be aware of that in Croatia today. Over half a million people live below the poverty line, 40,000 children in Croatia go to bed hungry for at least one week. Their parents cannot provide them with adequate education, and people who work for minimum wage cannot afford to give their children an equal education and not to enroll, let alone graduate colleges, much of them. And such a picture of Croatia must be changed. If we really want to be a country of equal opportunities, then the opportunities in Croatia should be equal for everyone, no matter how deep their parents' pockets are and no matter how much growth benefits are shared in Croatia. And that's why we have referred to the Parliament's minimum wage law procedure that we want to finally systemically in the Republic of Croatia that when we grow, we share benefits of growth benefits from Croatia growing through what we've been providing since 1.1.2018. 50% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia for people who now work for a minimum of human dignity. And that is why we have sent a law that will allow us to agree in these very labour-intensive industries and offer additional opportunities for negotiations, for those employers who want to sign a collective agreement with workers. And this is the answer to the question that because of the increase in the minimum wage and systematic solution, the minimum wage in Croatia will drop our competitiveness. It won't fail to compete. Many malls, many factories, would already raise the minimum wage if they had that legal option. Because when it's not prescribed by law, then if one lifts, the other is less competitive. So if we don't raise the minimum wage, we'll be in a position to be like a state, as a society less competitive. And our goal is to be successful and our goal is to make people who work pay. Today we have seen that workers in Borov have not received salary and such human fates are in Croatia 10 thousand. Ten thousand people at this point with about three thousand employers working and not getting paid. Imagine what it's like for these people? Can you put yourself in their skin? It's like living in two worlds. In a world where everything is normal in which everything works, where people receive high wages and other worlds where people combine end-to-end, where electricity is accumulated, where gas is accumulated, where tax reform already affects price hikes in the Republic of Croatia, what it feels. Therefore, the only way to systematically resolve poverty and fight for a society of equal opportunities is to enable people who work for a minimum of human dignity to increase minimum wages, as of 1.1.2018. And I appeal to you for sure many things in the past weren't great, there were certainly mistakes on both sides, there were mistakes whoever did them, but it's important that we do things for people that since 1.1.2018 we have at least this little bit of hope, that they can live better, that I can hope for something, that I can tell the children some things have started to change in Croatia. My salary is growing and you may not have to work outside the borders of our country because I can't give you any perspective here. That is why I call upon you all MPs, especially ruling that we do not share in this law, that you accept the minimum wage bill, show solidarity and show your heart, and if you do not already have a heart to show common sense to all people living in Croatia and to share success when we grow and share failure when we fall. In the end, I would like this law to be widely supported and that, regardless of political differences together, we send an important message that some things can be changed in Croatia. Because if we don't allow those people who work for minimum wage and the minimum of human dignity to see the light, I won't say at the end of the tunnel, but at the beginning of the tunnel, we'll be in a position that from Croatia more than last year during this government, it means evicting people, and there were 50,000 people who left the borders of our homeland, there are now 270 thousand people at the Employment Office. At this point, 76,000 people are working for minimum wage. And what's worse and the worst people move out and a lot of kids go hungry to sleep. Don't let that happen, please have reason or have heart and support the Minimum Salary Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35340	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. First, he's the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35341	Representative Bernardić, you spoke of minimum wage, among other things you mentioned 10 thousand people, i.e. workers who are not paid by employers, which is not only a crime, it is both God and man's punishment. And the fact is that not only do many people not only pay but the many who have done their jobs have lost their jobs while individuals have created their empires from cards, card towers at the expense of cashiers who were not allowed to use toilets, which were marked in cases of some other needs because they were not allowed to literally get out of their jobs by working on Sundays and Mondays and on Mondays and on Wednesdays and on Wednesdays and Fridays. But the fact is, if we're going to look through history, can you tell the public here during your government how much the minimum wage has been raised? I'm personally... Ten thousand kuna, minimum wage, however, of legal uncertainty and what your government has led to and the previous, what legal uncertainty is that many employers do not pay at all, first the legal system does not work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That employer should be shut down immediately, not crying over him. And mostly they close the grandmothers who sell onions on the market. If you have any information I see that in 2017 5% of the minimum wage has now been increased since 1.1. and here you are making the public know what it is, you have increased the minimum wage in the last term because if every year it was 5, now it would be about 4.5%. All I know is 2013 was 0%. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35342	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35343	The minimum salary in the last term grew at least 10%, that's it and that's not enough. That's not enough. But what concerns me as a man who lives in Croatia, while I am concerned about the situation around Agrokor where long-term success is not possible through other people's sweats and other people's work, I am concerned that healthcare debts exploded during the 15 months of your government, the HDZ Government and the Most, which jumped from 2.4 billion to 7.7 billion kuna. So the health system is becoming unsustainable right now, I don't know if you're aware of that. So every thing in Croatia unfortunately becomes and becomes financially unsustainable. Yes, we have unblocked many citizens, that we have solved the problem of Swiss, yes, the minimum wage has grown but has not grown enough. And that is why we are asking today for the minimum wage to be increased in Croatia and to be at least 50% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. That no one in Croatia works for less than 3,000 and some kunas, that's small but for some people that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35344	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Bernardić, of course, is a commendable initiative that goes to increase the minimum wage, which would certainly contribute to a better, better life for Croatian citizens. And there's no one I trust in this assembly who wouldn't support a minimum wage increase. But it doesn't seem too convincing on your part when you propose a law that increases the minimum wage, you watch out for 20%, the current minimum wage is about 3,000 and 200 and some kuna and you plan to increase it by 20%. At the same time, in the replica of your colleague Bulju, you're saying that your government has raised 10% of the salary. When that is not true, when everything is together in that mandate, there was no increase in salaries of more than 4%. Therefore, I think it is necessary to be realistic when this bill is proposed in the first place, to consider whether what we are proposing is possible, to look at the overall state of the economy. You're talking about an increase in the price of electricity and gas, I don't know if you remember and you must remember, you were a parliamentary representative, you sat here in this assembly, that in 2012, we witnessed an increase in electricity prices of 25%, watch out for 25% increase in electricity prices, 30% increase in gas prices, 2 kuna increases in the price of one meter of water in the Republic happened all within a few months. And now you're talking about an increase in the price of gas that according to the data we heard from the government, the ministry is talking about one lime per metre, one lime per metre of spatial gas and 7 limes an increase in electricity price based on your government's decision to use renewable energy sources. I don't think there's anyone who wouldn't support the initiative to raise the minimum wage, but there needs to be reasonable, it needs to be measured, it needs to look at all the possibilities of repercussion that such a proposal itself brings, not solely in the function of pre-election activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35346	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35347	Well, you can't convince me that 3,000 kunas, just over 3,000 kunas, is a big salary that the economy can't handle. You can't convince me it's a big increase. You can't convince me that the salary in Croatia is 3000 and something small kuna is large and unsustainable. You can't convince me. You're in your government until 2011, and I don't want to go back in time, but I have to say it's a frozen minimum wage. In times of crisis, we defrosted it and allowed a minimum wage increase of over 10%, by more than 300 kuna. And now we want to make an extra step, an extra step with a few hundred kunas for those people who have absolutely nothing. They don't have a decent life, they have nothing to look forward to, they can't pay their children for schooling unless they're studying and they're schooling in a city that has a high school or college. They have no conditions for that. Their message to their children may be watching maybe it's just somewhere else better. Therefore, you can't convince me that 3,000 kunas, 3000 kunas and something small kuna is a large salary that Croatia and the Croatian economy cannot withstand. You can't convince me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35348	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35349	Thank you very much. Comrade Bernardic, I don't know if your colleagues are setting you up today or if you didn't make a very good deal, but you were looking as a two-stop club today. One was for non-payment of salaries in MTC, so in the textile industry. The second break was for Borovo and no pay in that industry. And now we see that we have a problem with that minimum wage, and the management of these factories can't simply pay off that salary, and now you're asking us to even raise it for even more. It means we probably destroy those industries in those cities. We know about how many people work in these low-profit industries, and now the question is whether we are going to bring your proposal to the edge of sustainability, destroy or try wisely, smartly to talk to both the social partners and the people who are the bearers of these industries, to find solutions from year to year in which to save them to work, produce and pay their wages, or to settle it with one law, so whoever survives let them survive and thus have no place to come but to Mark's square. Because I'm surprised why you in the opposition didn't then, except for this 50%, given your responsibility, suggest that this minimum wage is, say, 70% of gross wages in Croatia, so you'd be even bigger guys like that. Because those workers will certainly not come to Ibler at that moment, but will come here in front of the government and ask where my job is and where my pay is. So decide what you want to represent, because it's nice to listen to this. But let's face it, and let's see what really low-profit industries can offer to the workers, and this is what you've been talking about here twice on behalf of the club today, and it seems to me that you're not exactly in line with the law you're proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35350	Thank you very much. The honourable MP Bernardic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35351	Well, nobody happier than me that the salary in Croatia is 70% of the average salary and should be at least 60%. But we're real, we're not unreasonable. That's why we've suggested 50% or 3000 and some change in kuna for people who now work for a minimum of dignity and didn't receive salaries in Borov, they didn't. First we rescheduled, the state is the majority owner. As soon as you're into Bor's people, they don't get paid. So don't tell stories about the economy. The board of Borova is political, that's what I'm trying to tell you about. As soon as you got in there, late wages were made, people couldn't afford bread. So how is that possible? That's what I'm asking you. So where's he gonna come from? Well, they'll come to Mark's square. I appeal to common sense. So in Croatia we have to fight that people who work for a minimum of dignity, at least have that minimum of dignity. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35352	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35353	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bernardic, you are today calling for some kind of unity with HDZ and MOST. I see you're offering them a coalition in some counties, inviting the president to take over certain ministries. But I don't understand how you don't realize that HDZ will never agree to those laws that you're proposing now, and you only suggest them while you're in opposition. I didn't notice that at a time when the SDP was in power, you were running some other politics than HDZ. There's no deal with these people. They represent the interests of large capital, narrow elites of 0.5% of Croatian citizens and foreign interests. To think that they will support the rights of workers, that they will support the rights of peasants, students and students, I really wonder if in these 27 years you've figured out where HDZ's policy is going? You just can't expect that kind of thing from them. And I think if you really do, and you rarely say that SDP is the leader of the opposition, you should set things differently. With these people there is no agreement, they are who they are, they run that kind of water policy, and that policy just has to change. I'm very sorry while the SDP was in power that you were implementing the Executive Act, that you proposed a property tax, that this minimum wage issue was not resolved then, and then really a man has to ask himself, really what is the difference between the SPD and HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35354	Thank you very much. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35355	Well, first of all, we defrosted the minimum wage and made it possible to raise the minimum wage for over 300 kuna in Croatia, that's what we did. They solved the Swiss problem, tried to solve the blocked, removed Croatia from the fungi, so these are all results that are not visible. So I am not calling for unity here, I call for common sense to solve the minimum wage problem in Croatia systematically. It's not funny, fellow Boric, it's not funny that people in Croatia work for 2500 kuna, how can that be funny to you? That's sad, that's sad. Mothers cry, children go to sleep hungry, sometimes their parents are unhappy. So how can that be funny to someone? Therefore, now we want to legally arrange exactly so that we would never come to a situation in Croatia again that when it is difficult everything goes over the back of the poor and everything goes over the back of those who do not. It's to tie the minimum wage to the average salary and make it possible for people to share when we grow, and when we're not able to share it. Therefore, in Croatia, we must share fate with each other, otherwise we have no chance... unless we understand it, if people behave in the way the current government behaves, I look, I don't see, I hear, I don't hear, I don't talk, I don't work that way Croatia can't go forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35356	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35357	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bernardic. At one point you said, I will quote "I call you to share success when we grow and share responsibility when we fall". I know you'd like to share the success of this government, but in democracy you understand who is responsible for success as well as it is responsible for failure. It will be assessed by citizens as it has been in the elections so far. It was past when we were all responsible for the successes and no one was responsible for the failures. Of course, it is constructively realistic and objective cooperation is possible but in the way your predecessor, us or them propagates, and not as this proposal of yours. Here is an example, in local elections many candidates who do not belong to your party will be bold to help you like in Vukovar-Srijem County, Sibenik, in the city of Zagreb to show you a part of your responsibility to citizens at least locally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35358	Thank you very much. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35359	Well, that's true, because we see the wider and we want more for Croatia, because we don't care what might be important to you, that someone should exclusively be a member of your party, because our national interest is Croatian interests, the interest of the people of this country in front of the party interest is that. We share success, these governments, so that you deserve success. You managed to collect gas in Croatia, you managed to collect electricity in Croatia, you managed to triple your debt in health in just a year, you managed to stop education reform, you managed to disable those most pro-pulsory hosts by tax reform, you did it all. Therefore, if it is the success of your government, she has nothing to be proud of.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35360	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the government's opinion? Dear Minister of Labour and Pensions Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35361	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored MPs and MPs, Honored Proposers. I'd like to look back on some of the thesis that has been presented today first and foremost try to give the government of the Republic of Croatia a view of this bill. So, first of all one important note, the applicable minimum wage law was passed in 2013, it is very important to know Mr Bernardic. Based on this applicable minimum wage law, and also on the basis of the law in question, the minimum wage for each subsequent calendar year is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Labour. The applicable Minimum Payment Act stipulates that the minimum wage cannot be determined in the amount less than the amount foreseen for the previous year. Furthermore, it is also prescribed that the minister in charge of work will propose to the government the level of minimum wage to increase the share of minimum wages in the average salary after consulting with the social partners and we have done so for 2017. At the same time, the Minimum Payment Act provides for an exception which can be agreed by a collective agreement on a minimum wage of less than the regulation adopted under this law and not less than 95% of the amount prescribed by this Regulation, we will particularly problemise this in our response to your proposal for a law. Thus, in the proposed proposal in question, the Social Democratic Party's Club Law defines a harmonisation of minimum gross wages with an average gross salary over 2 years. So he's fully deregating the current legal basis. In such a way as to establish a minimum salary for 2017 of 45% of the average gross salary per legal person employed in the Republic of Croatia and for 2018 of 50%. Indeed, the question arises why it was not 60 and 90% given the logic of this bill. Furthermore, a minimum salary for 2019 and each subsequent calendar year of a minimum of 50% of the average gross salary per legal person employed in the Republic of Croatia shall be established. It is also proposed to amend the exception which exists which can be agreed by a collective agreement with a minimum wage of less than the prescribed regulation in such a way as to lower it to 90% of the amount prescribed by the government regulation. We don't know why if we're going with the idea of increasing our citizens' standard of living. In the procedure laid down in the law during December 2016, the minimum wage Regulation for 2017 has already entered into force, in which the share of minimum wages in the average gross salary of the increase compared to the previous 2016 has been raised to 42.9% from the existing 38.8% share. The last increase in the minimum wage for 2016 was 90,45 kuna, or 90 kuna, 45 June, compared to 2015, while the increase for 2017 compared to 2016 was 156 kuna. What I would certainly like to remind is this, since the adoption of the Minimum Salary Act, it has been raised several times, the Social-Democratic Party government has raised the salary for 2014 by a 1,1% point. Pay for 2015 for 0.4% points, pay for 2016 for 2.9% points. The government of the Croatian Democratic Community and the Most paid 5% of points for 2017 compared to earlier ones. Also, what should be pointed out is that the government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the adoption of the draft law in question because the proposed way of increasing wages is unacceptable since it foresees a long-term way of determining its relationship, which simply does not comply with the law or with sound economic logic is not possible, Mr Bernardic. Namely, the uncertainty of the future macroeconomic circumstances and the general circumstances and the general circumstances of projected economic growth in the Republic of Croatia which are currently not fully known to me, for example for 2019, and to which minimum wages should be paid by the proposed growth dynamics do not provide the basis for the proposed legal solution in question. It is also controversial to propose that an exception to the collective agreement may establish a minimum wage of 10% less than the fixed amount because this constitutes a reduction in the lower limit of the minimum wage. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has expressed concern about this bill, which provides for a long-term and factually unconfirmed way of determining the minimum wage amount in the Republic of Croatia. Also, we cannot support narrowing down the space for the government of the Republic of Croatia and our social partners' dialogue. At the very end, I would also refer to some of the thesis that has been presented during your elaborated proposal for this law. You at one point elaborate that shopping centres and factories to raise minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia or themselves that they can do so. So they can raise the minimum wage, or they can raise the salary, it has nothing to do with the minimum wage, it has to do with the salary, Mr Bernardic. So we're saying that every factory, every entrepreneur can raise their salary in their company, but we're wondering where we're going at that moment. So at this point, there are branches, or sectors in the Republic of Croatia, that account for their cost, 80% of the costs are borne through salaries. It is primarily that sector of textile industry in the Republic of Croatia. Which gives you economic logic in the context of raising their minimum salaries, i.e. their salaries with 20 and more percentage points. What I would certainly like to appeal to, in a specific case, in the case of other proposals, to those who know something more on this subject, they exist in the Social Democratic Party. And in that context, these proposals have, above all, economic meaning and logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35362	Thank you very much. We have a truly impressive series of replicas on your exhibit so we'll start from the first and that's the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35363	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is simply amazing with what ease and supremacy the government's representative here explains to us and indirectly through television and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the salary we are proposing here is unfounded by economic logic, that it is too much. 3800 kuna gross too? That's what Mr. Andrej Plenkovic's top team member said today. Let everyone hear, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the HDZ government is 3800 kuna gross or 3,000 and something kuna net too much. And there is no economic logic that Croatia pays for it or that Croatia has such a law and employers pay for it in the Republic of Croatia. As if it were a world miracle in other European Union countries. So look across the street, here, in Slovenia, look at the minimum wage there. Look at the amount there that's minimum wage. Well, I simply can't be surprised here by the insolence of the HDZ government, Mr. Plenkovic, who is so able to say something here. And as if nothing had happened and said don't even propose anymore, it doesn't make sense, we won't accept anything. So we want to propose, because then people will at least know the next time they vote that HDZ is too gross, 3050 net, excuse me. So on that side, I'd ask you not to make people sheep, people aren't so naive and people know that they have more rights than you give them and that they can have more rights than you give them. And therefore we ask here that we all agree on the elemental logic that 3050 kuna net in the Republic of Croatia is not a high salary of what HDZ and Minister Ćorić claim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35364	Thank you. The reply of Honorable Minister Tomislav Ćorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35365	Mr Maras, with all due respect for your modesty as you express in the debates over our generosity, I would ask you first of all to understand that at this point you yourself have listed 70,000 workers in the Republic of Croatia receive minimum wage. Most of the sectors mentioned here. Their employers have been on the verge of the existence and rentability of business for years. This is the famous person who is sitting behind you, former Minister Mr. Mrsic, and that is why there were no such proposals at the time of last government. So keep that in mind, please, when you step up like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35366	Here will be the replicated representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35367	Dear Minister, you are an economist, so I'm surprised to say that this is economically unsustainable to suddenly raise a minimum wage by 50% at a time when Croatia's economy is recovering, when jobs are opening up. And as this was possible in Slovenia in 2010 by law that came into force in Slovenia, so 11.2.20, where the minimum wage is fixed to 50% at once and is adjusted each year to pay increases. So, obviously, it's economically possible. And there's an industry that's an industry with a very small margin that has the lowest wages. On the other hand, I'm surprised that, as an economist, you don't handle all the facts about the minimum wage, so it's forgotten that at the time of HDZ and that minimum wage that was defined by that law where the vice president of the government somehow cheated on the unions was dumped at 38% and over 3 years did not move at all. That in 2011, we unblocked that minimum wage and that the gross minimum salary from 2800 kuna, which was very little in 2011 and 2012 respectively, jumped to 3100. That's 10%, so much for these, sir. I'll fight around that 10%. She's up 10%. It's still too small. And thirdly, you as minister should advocate social dialogue and it would be best in Croatia if we had what we have in Scandinavian countries, that minimum wage is agreed between employers and workers. But you're here saying that what's put into the law that the union and the employer agree that because the margin is small that you can't handle such a minimum wage, that then you can by collective bargaining is something that I don't understand and not a single labour minister should say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35368	Thank you. The reply of Honorable Minister Tomislav Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35369	Dear Representative Mrsic, therefore none of this Government of the Republic of Croatia will agree again on the need for minimum wage growth during its term of office. So, after a month and a half of its term of office, this government of the Republic of Croatia has increased the minimum wage more than your government has done in three years. Please be aware of this debate. None of us will agree anymore that this increase in minimum wage needs to continue and in the next period and we will do so. However, it should also be borne in mind that economic circumstances at the moment in the Republic of Croatia still do not allow significant increases. I'll just, I'll just remind you of some figures since you usually mention the Republic of Slovenia. So at this point, Bulgaria's minimum wage is 214 euros at the end of 2016. In the Czech Republic, 364 euros, Estonia 430, Latvia 370, Lithuania 380, Hungary 350, Portugal 417, Romania 276, Slovakia 405. I'm not talking about countries in the region. At this point, the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia is 440 euros and this is not little compared to these countries. Why am I telling you this? Why am I telling you this? Gross. Why am I telling you this? I am telling you this because at this point the gross domestic product of Croatia per capital is the last in the EU. So we have to do everything we can to make further growth of the economy and we announced it in our term of office and we will do everything we can to ensure that, with this growth in the economy, the same amount of minimum wage increases. Of course, we need to seek to raise minimum wage and of course we will. However, we can do so within the limits of economic logic and our capabilities and we did so at the very beginning of our mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35370	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35371	... This is all you said doesn't give me reason to be optimistic. [[Specially enabled.]] It's like you don't believe in success yourself. The instability of economic indicators, the instability of economic growth, instability, uncertainty, and you said it yourself several times. In 2019, there is no room this year. I'm worried. Instead of spreading optimism, you're spreading defetism here, spreading panic, and you can't convince us that 3000 kuna, slightly more than 3000 kuna, is a huge and impossible salary in the Republic of Croatia. You won't get away with it. Well, you can't convince us of that. So you assure us that the salary of three thousand and something small kuna for people in Croatia is large and impossible. Well, you can't, and then you're counting the countries in a row from the Eastern bloc that used to be in the Soviet Union. So who do you want to compare us to? So what kind of data are these? So give Croatia a comparison with those countries we want to compare to whose society we have come. Don't take out any oatmeal grades and shine defetism and panic. It can't, we won't make it, 2019 is unstable, the pay is big. The only thing I can understand from this is the great or unknown of what you're talking about or the great uncertainty. I'd like to succeed as a country and as a society, but I'm worried, deeply concerned about your words right now. Sad and worried.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35372	Thank you very much. Here's a response from the Honorable Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35373	Mr. Bernardich, I'm just going to rephrase it for you for a second. The only thing I can be worried about is actually the level of pulsism and demagogy, the phraseology that you present in the proposal of the main opposition party on a very important legislative proposal. That's actually amazing. The GDP growth rate in 2017 should be between 3.1% and 3.3%, Croatian public finances are stable. We are chasing towards economic growth this year, by increasing the standard of living of our citizens, the minimum wage we should discuss here is somewhere behind you and they can explain it to you in rows behind you, it has been growing 5% points since 1.1, 2018 it will grow again, and in 2018 you will probably go with some new initiative that you are trying to enter into political space and in Hrt Dnevnik or some other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35374	Thank you. Now here's the replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So when you talk about the growth of minimum wages, about growth, I mention the minimum wage in our government's mandate, then it's obvious, and of course you compare it to this proposal of yours, then you start from that or you don't start from that it was an important different period, during which our government was struggling with the crisis, very hard, very painfully and succeeded in the second half of its mandate to get the country out of the crisis and to achieve and establish this trend that is now giving results. Unfortunately, I don't find much argument that this new government in these four months would do anything for these three, three, two percent of what you're talking about. So that's the legacy, that's the legacy of that trend that we've established, that every economist knows that such things in the macroeconomic sector are taking place in this way, especially if we don't see any reason why your government would further encourage that growth. What I want to say and to be quite clear, the minimum wage must grow more than the average wage growth in Croatia that is now happening. If that growth is between 3.5, 4, 4.5% in general, then the minimum wage to get that trunk that occurred in the meantime has to grow significantly higher, that's what we're talking about. So that 5% for such a low wage isn't enough. 5% on three thousand kuna is 150 kuna true, but 5% on ten thousand kuna is 500 kuna, the new 350 kuna trunk between this one with ten and this one with three thousand kuna. This is what the principle of social democracy is to fight the inequality that is growing and greater in Croatia. And that's what the union studies showed the other day very clearly, and we have to understand that. That is why we are asking for stronger and greater growth in these salaries, and of course within the framework of retaining the competitiveness of these companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35376	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35377	Dear Representative Greece, therefore, we will fully agree with the the thesis that the share of minimum salaries in the average salary in the Republic of Croatia should grow. Well, that's exactly what happened. At the very beginning of my presentation, I stated that during 2016 the share of minimum wages in average salary was 38.8%. At this point, it's over 42%, and that's the way we're going to go, we can definitely agree on that. However, I hope that you as an economist, as a kind of economist, will also agree with the the the thesis that such an increase in the minimum wage first and foremost strikes the competitiveness of the most vulnerable sector, the sectors with which you, at the end of your term of office, have fought, with their survival in the economy at all. The textile industry, the leather, the wood industry, you know very well what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35378	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. I'd like it if you were to quote the average salary in our neighbouring countries to indicate and how much cubic meter of gas or how much water it costs or how much garbage transportation. I, for example, know very well about Hungary and prices, and they are not quite comparable, Mr. Minister. If I were like you from the Democratic Community, I might now be questioning your CV, your resume as some of you were throwing us out of here when you were working in the real sector, and I'm not doing it. I greatly appreciate that you're a doctor of science, especially economic communities, but this is not an academic debate of respected ministers. While we were discussing here, while you're trying to get us from the cathedral to document it, a colleague of mine, one of my citizens from Baranja sent me a text message as to what his net salary was in February 2,339,04 kuna. I call you ministers and everyone here, you survive with that amount. Well, my gas bill during the winter is more than half this amount. And then we're talking about a salary that's enough for a decent, decent, carefree life. Well, the men are leaving us ministers, so Slavonia is empty. In Osijek, every third house is empty because of such wages and such a decent life, dear minister. I appreciate what you're doing, not what you're saying. And what you're doing we're already seeing with tax reform, richer, poorer, "Superhik" reform. Who wants respected ministers to find ways and who doesn't want to find an excuse? How would the Shocks call me "sapients watch" or'smart enough'?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35380	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35381	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you've heard, here's the first man of the opposition is now almost emotionally destroyed, dissatisfied, unhappy, sad and defending the law he's been preparing for months, and for months they've been thinking about never having a discussion, but here's a different government, a different Parliament, a different president, we're discussing the laws of opposition. Unfortunately for their term of office, we have failed to do anything and we are trying to determine with our arguments what is truly possible here. However, you saw and you clearly tried to show them through and through the government's opinion and your own that their law is inconsistencies, that in one provision it practically invalidates some of their intentions that they call good. It means that they can't even write what they imagined and that for months in public they've been trying to side with the workers as a social democracy that in their term of office when workers had the highest confidence in them they let them down. These workers punished them twice in the elections precisely because they almost destroyed them, destroyed them with the policies they had implemented. And today we're listening to stories that we can't, which we can't, and why minimum wage should be 50 or 70% of gross wages in the Republic of Croatia. Those who raised the price of gas by 25% as soon as they came to power, the price of electricity by 20% as soon as they came to power immediately after 2 months, water 15%, tolls that are constantly spoken of by 15%. It wasn't what they didn't collect. And of course today they're trying to bring back some of their own people, voters, workers, and they're talking to them. And all the time they're saying everything they did right, and they don't mention, say, 80 billion public debt and the answer to where they spent that money, there's no answer. In the Croatian people, there is a beautiful proverb or sentence for such behaviour "the real English", today in opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35382	The reply of the Honorable Minister Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35383	Thank you, Mr. Representative, for your positive criticism, actually. What I would really like to point out is the need to, and I will refer to this academic moment to discuss in the Parliament and in those situations where they should be constructive in fact. I believed that the opposition, or the largest opposition party, would respond positively to our raise of a minimum wage of 5% points and probably like you. And we have put ourselves in a position to bid as much amounts as possible after this government regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35384	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35385	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So here's listening to your debate and discussion from my colleagues from the SDP, I'm really disappointed in this kind of populist way that people from the SDP are doing right now. They had the opportunity to raise their salary as much as they wanted, but for their term as you know they did nothing. Since I come from Požega-Slavon County, I'll just say a few words. So that's where the textile industry works, the wood industry. And what's important is that this government has raised a minimum wage in this year by 5% when we talk about a gross amount and only in one company that employs 500 people it's an extra cost of 200 thousand kuna per month, which means it's at an annual level of 2.5 million kuna. In the textile industry, we have about 500 people in Požega-Slavon County. If you're only up for 5% now and not for 30 colleagues Bernardic and you who have commented, you've raised the net, the minimum salary of that company tomorrow puts the key in the lock. Listen to me. They're putting the key in the lock. So give the men and Mr. Ministers to explain to them that this is impossible at this point until the Republic of Croatia raises its economic level to another level. The eastern countries that cut us into economic development are both the Czech Republic and Poland and other countries far more developed at the moment than the Republic of Croatia and have lower incomes and minimum salaries than the Republic of Croatia. So I think it's enough of this people's populism than this people expect us to have a quality debate here, a debate where we're going to help them, and not with this pulsism, we're simply destroying this really poor and poor people who have to run to other countries because we can't provide them right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35386	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35387	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you have read this very well to MP Bernardic, I do not know when you were able to write it before and print it since he only said his opinion today. You said entrepreneurs were on the verge of existence. And I have to admit, I'm really amazed by that statement of yours. Have you thought about Mr. Todorovic? Well, since he's on the verge of existence, there's not a few million kunas to direct the castle, then perhaps overnight you decided to draw up a law that would take from the Croatian citizens a billion kuna to give him. Is this the entrepreneur whose existence is threatened? Now you can find a billion kuna overnight. And while citizens can't pay a tax of 20 June and 30 kuna, then you send them errands, you send them the police, you do their real estate, and now you're telling them that Ivica Todorovic is on the verge of existence. And you say you're an economist and we don't know how to argue. Have you seen the results of research from the Economic Institute a few days ago that 70% of people in Croatia must borrow money to survive the month. 70% of people can't pay for the directorship, they can't take their children on vacation and you say that Ivica Todorovic is on the verge of existence. And you call that a serious academic debate? I don't know, I'm really here. I was astounded with your prime minister as he spoke here about the EU report, but you obviously managed to top it in a public argument. And I really have to wonder how it's possible for someone with a 6 billion tax debt to amnesty and help him and not want to help Croatian workers who suffer And they shall cover the end with the end, and of whose work ye shall live. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35388	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35389	Dear Representative Bunjac, I'm not sure that we were in the same place while I presented the government's response to the Social Democratic Party's bill. First of all, I'd like to introduce you to the fact that my written material is a written material that responds to the SDP Club's initiative. I'm sorry I had it. And as for Mr. Todorovic, that is, my thesis on entrepreneurs, you've made a mistake. It's not part of that debate. That's probably what you had a chance to discuss this morning as part of your break. I was talking about business-run entrepreneurs, at this point the most vulnerable sectors in the Republic of Croatia. I've also listed who these are, Mr. Bunzac. You probably tried to overlook that in the face of your response. So it's about the textile industry, it's about the leather, the shoe industry, it's about the wood industry, Mr. Bunjac. These are the industries in which at this point and for a long time, unfortunately, they have been on the verge of existence. I wasn't talking about the other things. The other thing is, you heard me say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35390	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35391	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you say in 2017. 5% is just over 3,000 kuna. However, any proposal, including an opposition proposal, is good, we can discuss what is current. The fact is that the minimum wage is low, the fact is that 5% of the salary was raised in 2017, but the key problem is still those workers who do not make their income based on the fact that entrepreneurs are breaking their own, violate the law prescribed the right to, on workers' salary. The fact that in three years, 2% of the salary has increased. Last 2016, two dots something, this year 5%. However, this proposal for opposition is good, and it is good that this proposal is in Parliament to talk about minimum wage. It's just that we don't have any more, that's all. We're losing workers, and that's the product of both the former government and all the previous governments. This is the side effect, i.e. That's the reason. Because those cashiers they created, I repeat the empires again during the SDP of the government and the former HDZ, the cards towers today questioned these 60,000 people and Croatian potentials. So the point is, this is what needs to be discussed, and I agree. The law of opposition is good that it is here, as far as... The amendment to make 80% of the salary minimum and that's legitimately discussed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the key problem is that many of our citizens do not exercise their rights. It's legal uncertainty, which is why people are leaving, which means the cause, it's the result of the poor governance of the current governments. And this must also be aware of the applicant, the opposition that they mismanaged the Croatian state as well as the previous governments headed by the HDZ. And this proposal is really positive. I'll give the amendment to be 80%, 95,000 kuna, I think it's a real salary. But what is the fact today? The fact is that a large number of workers do not receive wages and that labor is destroyed And now he's on his way to Ireland. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] It's a key problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35392	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35393	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. According to recent surveys in Croatia, there are a large number of our citizens in front of poverty, over 80% of the risk of poverty is precisely in Slavonia and Baranja, the risk of poverty and precisely because there are no jobs and the new ones that are being opened are mostly working contracts for a certain time large part of these contracts and for this minimum wage that is not enough for a quality of life and therefore we have a young emigration and therefore young people do not see the perspective in the Republic of Croatia. And what message are we sending through your debate today? You're contradictory. On the one hand, you boast about economic growth, GDP growth, and on the other hand you say that growth cannot guarantee a minimum wage growth in 2019 as proposed by this law. So what way can young people plan their future? Whether they will stay in Croatia or will leave if they cannot be guaranteed growth and minimum wage, if new jobs cannot be guaranteed. You say employers can raise their own wages. Yes, they can, but they're always looking at profits and they're self-initiatively hard to raise wages. And sensitive sectors of the type of textile and wood industry, so there are other models and there are experiences of other countries to help them, and that the minimum wage and in these restaurants are such that workers can live on their wages. So please answer how do you intend to help these sectors and how do you plan to continue to raise minimum wage?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35394	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister of Labour and the pension system of Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35395	Dear Representative Vlaovic, I will look back on your thesis of contradiction. I wouldn't say I'm contradictory, I'd say I'm objective and realistic. We probably have different perspectives. I will state once again the course of the October 19th event last year the government of Mr Plenkovic took responsibility for the Republic of Croatia at the end of December, so not two months after that we increased the minimum wage by 5% points more than several years cumulatively. On the other hand, in a conversation with our social partners where someone was calling here at this point, we agreed to raise salaries in state services more than 6% of points this year. With the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision, we've increased public service wages by 2%, so these are the things that have already happened. We are talking about five or six months of the government's term of office of Mr. Plenkovic. The optimism that we all share in the government, I believe more and more the Croatian public about the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia and economic indicators at this and irregular age, is something that encourages us to re-emerge and increase the standard of living for these most vulnerable citizens during and by the end of 2017. We do it realistically and in accordance with the possibilities of the Republic of Croatia at the moment. The opportunities of social partners, therefore, in this particular case of employers in the most vulnerable sectors, sectors that have been plagued by many of them for years since the 1990s with their incompetence and problems. I'm sorry to hear that to all the MPs, and first and foremost to the legislators of this law, it's not clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35396	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35397	Thank you. Mr Minister, I agree with your conclusion that the growth of minimum wage will be monitored by GDP growth in Croatia and how a better quality situation in the economy will allow for an increase, I hope, at the end of this year to increase the minimum wage. In particular, this refers to how you yourself said to the most vulnerable sectors such as the wood industry, textile and leather industry where this salary increase certainly made it difficult, about which, just before, Lucic told employers about the possibility of normal business and then the payment and the minimum salaries of 3.120 kuna. I find it very strange that the SDP proposes to raise minimum wages, when at the same time where he is an employer reduces wages for his employees. And therefore, within the SDP, a union was established to preserve the level of wages achieved in the SDP. So it's easy to look over the board into someone else's yard, ask other employers to raise their salaries, and you're when you're an employer, you're practically not doing what you're proposing with a law like this. From this data that you have listed, which we are witnessing about GDP growth in the last year of 2.9 or 3%, we will have the final amount and the planned GDP growth in 2017 of 3.2% in any case will allow wage growth in Croatia and then certainly be an incentive for the government to increase the wages now as I said it would be 3.120 kuna with a minimum wage decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35398	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35399	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, we heard a lot here today. There was a stylish impression, onamatopeys, displays, acting, doctoring, objectivity, calling for reason, but the only thing you haven't been able to explain to us is that three thousand and something kuna is a big salary and there's an impossible salary in the Republic. Yes, we have proposed a law to finally systematically edit this area, to bind the minimum wage to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, to share the fate of growth, but also the fate of trouble, so that people in Croatia work for each other in a solid way when we're doing well and share the fate of each other when we're not doing well. And that's the basic idea of the proposal. If you think you need to fix the proposal, fix it, make amendments, propose your law, suggest a second percentage. In line with your uncertainty about economic growth and fear and concern for economic growth, suggest another model, but let us bring it in. Let the people who work in Croatia for the minimum of human dignity have something to hope for. Well, some people don't watch us on TV today because electricity's off. Tens of thousands of people can't track us today, 65% of the poor population according to data from the Economic Institute. Look what your colleagues wrote once during this year... off the clock. Are you aware of that? With what ease I hear it's the cost, the textile industry, so Mr. Lucic, I didn't expect it from you. How can people be a expense? Požeško-Slavon County, you've been the boss there for many years, so it's the poorest county in Croatia, so you heard Slavonca, every third house is empty, people are moving out. You heard Mr. Vlaovic, so you know how people live there. I call you to raise, to suggest, to fix what you think you should but don't people for 3,000 kunas that it is impossible or unrealistic, that it is impossible to achieve in Croatia, when it is necessary to raise minimum wage, then it is populism. But you have no problem raising electricity, gas, prices, health debts. You don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35400	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35401	Dear Representative Bernardic, I have listened with the interest of your presentation and, in essence, to everything you have said, I agree. The situation is truly catastrophic. Under this HDZ rule, things are not good, negative trends continue, the number of young people fleeing from the country is growing, the number of blocked is increasing. There's a break in large legal entities, obviously the government's policy is that it's actually acting like a Titanic, playing in an orchestra, saying it's all good and we're having economic growth and everything's collapsing. However, we must not interfere with the mind that when the SDP was in power, all the measures it now proposes to place, let's say that hemp farming is allowed for medical purposes to increase the minimum wage. He could have done it when he was in power. You could, ladies and gentlemen of the SDP, introduce vinjets instead of toll, you could have led us to pay an annual toll of 500 kuna in Croatia instead of 200 kuna from Zagreb to Dubrovnik, and we can drive as much as we want but you're not. And there's actually the key to the whole problem. Which although the SDP is able to perceive problems is not able to solve them. And now that he's not in power as he proposes some of his measures, etc. So that sounds a little unconvincing to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35402	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35403	Your Honor, counsel, far from all things being great, but it's started, it's still moving. Minimum wage increases have begun, the minimum wage that was frozen for the former governments has been defrosted. The economic growth started, the proposal to enable people to use hemp itself for medical purposes, the debate on the recovery model, i.e. the restructuring of the Croatian highways, which we met with great resistance. So things started. And now this is how you practically deny the problem. Well said, Titanic orchestra. The conductor plays, the ship sinks, nothing happens and nothing is done. They look and they don't see, they listen and they don't hear, they don't talk and they don't work. That's the situation we're in right now. Well, I don't know, so I don't know any more ministers who aren't under any kind of an affair. My men, how will they solve the problem? Minister Coric came here, well, now he's gone, but the minimum wage and the minimum wage problem remains. You can't convince us that 3,000 kunas are a lot for people living in Croatia. You cannot convince us that 3,000 kunas are impossible for people living in Croatia. You can't convince us that 3,000 kunas are a lot for people who can't send their children to school but are going to do different crafts work abroad. It's in Slavonia, it's in the north, it's in Dalmatia, it's everywhere. So, let's pass this law, let's let go of partying, and let people have at least a little bit of hope, butcher the law, change it, change the percentages, but show that you care, show good will.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35404	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35405	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bernardic, you said well here that we heard everything today, but most importantly what we heard, we heard, we heard the difference between SDP and HDZ. And the difference is that our salary increases, minimum wages, enabling citizens of a decent man to live at least in a small part of the HDZ is the cost. The scandalous thing is what counterpart Lucic said that 5% of the minimum wage increase caused the cost to entrepreneurs, that it was the cost. And even those entrepreneurs wouldn't be without workers. Why do we only favour entrepreneurs here and talk like they're some supernatural beings without them? I mean, workers should still be happy to work for a minimum wage and thank those entrepreneurs who earn money on their work. But you well told my colleague Bernardic, this government refuses to raise the minimum wage we have proposed this bill but raises taxes, taxes rise, first real estate taxes rise, taxes rise on catering, taxes rise, taxes rise, taxes rise on property, electricity rises, gas rises, basic living costs rises, tolls rise, salaries rise to the richest but they refuse to raise salaries to the poorest people in this society. And that's the difference between us and HDZ. We care about the man, we care about the worker, and they care about the capital, they care about the entrepreneurs. And they're good colleagues from the Living Wall here said Todoric is important to them. We'll talk about it tomorrow, maybe it's not a topic today, but it's their view, the view of Croatian citizens, the workers are the cost and the necessary evil and the entrepreneurs are the bosses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35406	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35407	So I think you've touched an important aspect called that, when it comes to entrepreneurs in Croatia, we're not a society of equal opportunities. Those big ones can fight better conditions for themselves, better conditions with the state, open doors with ministers, better negotiations, no payments, pay difficulties, and those small ones can't even get a deadline for adjustment when it comes to tax reform as caterers. Those kids have to pay for everything in time. They don't have a chance to negotiate. So Croatia must also become good to entrepreneurs, according to those who have made their families available, that is to say, go into business with them because they give up. Croatia must become good to small entrepreneurs and cannot push its head into the sand. Croatia today is not a good society, it is not a society of equal opportunities. What is allowed is large, powerful with political backgrounds not allowed by others. What is possible for those who have grown 5,000 kuna by tax reform is not possible for people who work in the textile wood industry, who work for minimum wage. They didn't get paid. Well, that's what we're talking about here. Should we deny the problem, stick our head in the sand or agree that the problem exists and solve it? So I suggest you, give the amendments, make proposals, cut the law, make a hundred amendments. Make your law, push it into procedure. But let's tie the average salary to the minimum wage. We share fate when it's good and we share fate when we're not doing well. So let's be solid in Croatia. We can't make it as a country or as a society while it's bad in our neighborhood. It's never gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35408	Thank you. Next is the replica of Mira Bulja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35409	My colleague Bernardić, as far as I know, this is your 4th term in the Assembly and it's really nice to hear when we call for solidarity. But I am sorry that the mandate did not call for labour rights, to the solidarity in which you were the ruling majority. I will personally vote for every labour law,... I think 50% of the pay average is very low, I'm going to give 80% somewhere... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that while you were in power, you didn't have the courage to do it because it was decided in Peppermint or Tach with the tycoons you're going to spend politics with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this law is positive. But you've been here for three terms. You kept your mouth shut during your government about everything that was going on, from the workers of the Shkver who now have no pay, the workers of the Dalmatian woman, the workers of the Auto Transport. The entire Cetin province has run out of workers, they've failed to exercise their rights. It's a key problem. Today they're workers... Some have earned rights, some have not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, they have expenses in court of £200,000 for seeking their rights. A loud silence killed this people and political arguments on the click when you are in opposition telling one story, when you come to power another story and vice versa. And also, I see that the Greek former Minister whispers to you, you have destroyed my Cetina province, the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika and Gorski Kotar, the new Regional Development Act. They're empty areas. There are no jobs there because of the policies you and those before you, either HDZ, or the SDP government. And solidarity is the key to everything and the debate. And now I'm telling you that I'm personally going to give the amendment to 80% of the average salary, which means about 5,000, I'm going to calculate, so we're going to see if it backs up. Of course you will because you're an opposition. I personally did not vote in favour of the budget for these reasons, and I am not in favour of tax reform either. And I'm saying this with the right that I'm sorry you didn't say this while you were in power. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35410	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35411	So that's why I'm a little surprised to you, because you know what happened in the Cetitian province with conversion and privatisation and you know when it happened. And now you Miro Bulj are HDZ's chief attorney. A miracle! ... Why? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I mean, okay. If you're a HDZ lawyer, it's not a problem, but I don't see any reason exactly why you know. So what did we do? Well, look, I know what I supported. What we did – raised the number of scholarships, raised scholarships, raised minimum wage, raised GDP, raised exports, raised industrial production. We picked that up and I supported it. Yeah, and that's what I fought for. Of course, I'll always defend that. Well, I'd support any good proposal that comes from you and we'll support it, there's no reason. But give me support for this and be aware of the facts of what happened in conversion and privatisation. Now you're saying that in the Cetitian province, the SDP is in power. Well, we've never been there, so that's the problem, that's why you have problems. That SDP is where SDP people live better. Well, 25 years is one political option there and nothing's going on. And look at the problems and you address me now. So give it to the election so you can see how the story changes. It doesn't go easy, it doesn't go overnight, but it will change. I therefore call on the citizens of the Cetina region to choose change.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35412	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35413	My colleague Bernardiæ, as you today have shown in this House, is likely to feel eerie because he is aware that what you are proposing today is not possible. Every worker in Slavonia in my Požega-Slavon County would like to have 5,000 kuna net wages which I would also agree with. But also as I have already said, that one director and one textile - dealing Orjava, who barely survives, and with this minimum income, everyone would like to have a higher salary. But obviously you were never in the economy, so you don't understand, and you didn't pay anyone other than what you were getting here. Don't measure up to this salary of $15,000 in the economy it's not possible to pay off. And if you have a formula for a solution, I invite you to Požega-Slavon County to be my guest, to those people who run the companies, and I told three companies to have 1,500 people, come and show them how and how you would increase your personal income if you knew it so. And at the same time, your government is not under your guidance, but you were a member of that same government, and you didn't show and convince people that you had a lifesaving solution, how and how to raise a minimum wage to people in this difficult economic situation, I'm really surprised what you've done in the past time, and that until today, the SDP hasn't done it. This populist measure indeed and this bickering us and convincing you that at this point is not possible, we are all not for three but for five thousand kuna we are to be the lowest wage, but all of this here in this assembly in this House knows that it is not possible. However, you want to convince not us but the public in very different ways that they certainly understand that it will not and cannot happen at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35414	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35415	Well, first of all, I wasn't a member of the government, so you must have confused me with someone else. We've increased the minimum wage to this next step. You have to choose,... you think everything is satisfied and that we should be satisfied with the situation in Croatia, that we must move on. You think we should be satisfied with 76,000 people who work for a minimum wage with 50,000 people who last year, by some statistics, have left our country, with 10,000 people who work, and don't get paid, with 300 thousand blocked, should be satisfied with that? With a fifth of the population below the poverty line that some can't pay for directing, whose children rarely go hungry to sleep. Well, we can't be satisfied with that, so we need to take a step forward. So you see what you said in Slavonia, no one is hungry, so say it. ... Say it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're the one who said it's embarrassing, so I feel like it too when someone from the cannon fires something that doesn't stand. Well, your words are believed to be a melem, and you're as a Parliamentarian certainly wanted to help that end, and then why are these people still working below the limits of human dignity, so that's my question. A populist measure, so it is not a populist measure that people in Croatia have three thousand and a small kuna for life. Is that a populist measure? It's not a populist measure, so it's common sense. If you can't decide with your heart to support it then give it reason or you'll act like someone on Plato's side, instead of poverty you better have money because it's better on the financial side. So how can I tell you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35416	Thank you very much. That's what we'd do with this part, now we're gonna take a break by 3:00, and then we're gonna move on with the representatives' clubs. Thank you. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35417	It's 13:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The first is the Live Wall club, representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35418	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to express my compassion and solidarity with all Croatian employees, especially those who work for the minimumer. And just as I want to express my compassion and solidarity with all those employers who work legally fighting daily in the forest of Croatian bureaucracy. This minimum wage law that we have before us today is a very important law, one of the key laws I believe can be passed in the mandate of any government, especially after such a long-term crisis as Croatia has experienced. But we can see that he's coming up against the resistance. The very fact that it took several months before the first reading of this law, that we will probably wait until the second reading in the autumn and that it is already announced in advance from the government that the law will be rejected there somewhere around Christmas shows what the current government's relationship to this issue is. On the other hand, in partnership with this case, we can observe the government's relationship to large capital. So at a time when an entrepreneur, a tycoon who had absolutely all the powers and all the support of the state he could have had, who had secreted billions and billions of taxes, when it comes to his head, then the law is written overnight and then a billion kunas are found overnight, euros, pardons in the budget, then it's a matter of priority. And he shows us how nothing more beautiful than that, plastic doesn't show how this government thinks. If it's tycoons we react immediately and if it's a minimum wage, wait until Judgment Day and then you won't be waiting for anything anyway. But to go back to the very problem of this law that the SDP has proposed, which also had the opportunity to propose the law before, but okay, he's in front of us now. This law should be explained from a number of angles because it represents, essentially, if accepted, one step forward but would not solve these problems that Croatian citizens or employees currently have. The SDP suggests that the minimum wage is 50% of the average wage and this is a relatively good proposal because Croatia is among the lower ones, among those countries in Europe that have the lowest percentage of the minimum wage and currently accounts for around 36% of the average salary. Here, even in Serbia, that percentage is 43%. So it's significantly higher than in Croatia. It's 52% in Slovenia, so it's even bigger. But the question is, how much is the minimum wage, which means how much is quantitatively, so let's say in euros because I think that data is also very important for comparison when we talk about a minimum wage increase. So the minimum wage in euro is higher even in Estonia and Poland and Turkey and Portugal, and even in Hungary and Greece, which they describe as the EU's worst member, by 60% than in Croatia, by 60% in the euro. And now they're telling us, make sure the Croats don't experience the Greek script and the Greeks have 60% more minimum than Croatia. So God forbid we experience a Greek scenario that our citizens have 750 euros minimum wage. And then the government here heard the minister who normally escaped as soon as he had to start having a more serious debate without reading, then he likes to convince us with his Eurostat statistics, you know, we have 58% of the EU purchasing power. However, it is a beautiful statistic, but when you look at the minimum wage in EU countries, the minimum wage is 4 times higher than in Croatia. So we don't know 400 euros in Belgium is 1600. What kind of 58% are we talking about? It means that 58% of the minimum wage should be I don't know in Germany 700 euros and we know it's not. Next, it's nice to get a minimumer who can get it. 9% of Croatian citizens work and do not receive minimum wage, so they receive less than minimum wage. Who's going to make those 9% of employers make that guaranteed minimum income in the first place? In Greece, which is therefore in a disaster, only 2% of workers do not receive minimum wage. So they're much better than Croatia again. With us, employees are also wrong in every way possible, e.g. No overtime, no travel expenses, no severance fees, no norms. So he's got to do not eight hours on shift but 9 and 10 hours and 12 hours to get that minimumer at all. So we're talking about being realistically looking at a man earning far less than a minimum. For what? Because legislation doesn't protect workers, because we don't have a whistle-whispers law, because inspections don't do their job. And this one, in fact, is the Whistle Act because inspections don't do their job. And in fact, this Minimal Act, I'm even saying, and it wouldn't be so bad if the whole, so the working atmosphere, if the legislation, the judiciary, were to do its job. Then let's do it some more and it'll look like it. But we can see that the problems are much deeper. How many fake payrolls are there in Croatia? You yourself know that there are dams where, in almost 100% of the cases, the payroll has nothing to do with what a man earns. Ask pyrotechnicians, ask security guards, ask builders, merchants, etc. He says that compared to me, says our minister in relation to a country in Hungary or I don't know Slovakia, we're good. But what is our standard? So we may have the same salary, but the question is, what can I do with my minimum wage I don't know 400, 450 euros buy in Croatia, and what can I buy with that same salary in another country? Here are 1189 kunas, 1048 or 12% lower in Greece, in Milan 928 kuna or 20% lower than in Zagreb. In Russia, which is under sanctions, is that with the terrible sanctions imposed by Croatia, the directors are 755 kuna per month or 37% lower in Zagreb. Public transport is 64% lower. Food's down 40% on average. How can we talk about the cost, as Minister Coric says, of the government's cost and of some normal conditions in which Croatian employees work when 10% of families freeze, it freezes. One simple heating season, one heating season costs six, seven thousand kuna. So let's say two and a half to three minimum wages just to keep people warm. In neighbouring Slovenia, countries mentioned in the Czech Republic, Slovakia's people save, save every month. It is shown that in Slovenia the family saves 300 euros per month, and in Croatia 300 euros of the family is missing to pay for basic existential needs. So when the family gets that, a family that works at a factory or a private one, two minimals pay the directors, and after 3, 4 days, they're completely broke. They haven't got any money for five days after they pay. They have to borrow. Read those results from the Economic Institute. It's not the same situation. Statistics in this case cheat, she was set up to refuse this law. And we just have to think for ourselves, turn around, see how people live. Here's a comparison and some of the prices we have in London. If you didn't know in London the salaries were 200% higher than in Croatia, the directors are here somewhere. Here's the bill from the London Lidl I have it original, a bag of 40 limes, bread 4 kuna, a liter of organic milk 5 kuna, 2 liters of bottled water 1.40, 1 kg banana 6 kuna, 1 can of tuna in oil 5 kn, 1 egg 1 kuna. Try to go to the Croatian Lidl now and buy the same goods, and you will see how smart it is for someone to combine Croatian salaries, our standard with other EU members. How much is VAT on food? Well, Croatia has the highest VAT on food in the EU. Romania has VAT 9%, Slovenia 9 and a half percent. In the UK, most of the food has zero VAT. Well, come on if we can't get that minimumer up, so at least let's cut food costs, direct costs. There's room. Where do we get the right to save a tycoon who's failed as soon as possible, and this kind of problem that we haven't solved in years, so I'd dare say for decades? The minimum wage should be raised anyway, but even with these measures proposed by the SDP to make minimum wage 3800 kuna will not solve the problems of Croatian citizens. Very serious calculations of quite serious experts, economists show that in the environment in which we now live, in order for a family to survive one employee must have a salary of 5000 kuna. It's a minimum. It would be a fair minimum wage that would finally solve this poverty that we witness every day. If we can't repeat it again, cut into the gray economy, protect the workers by working legislation, let's give them real wages for what they've done, and make contributions, and not to threaten pregnant women, and not to listen to all the sad stories that give us day-to-day messages here in the Parliament. Let's put the energy sector back in our hands. In 2000, a liter of gasoline cost 3.80 kuna, the price of barrels of oil about the same as it is now. We can't take any more of this pressure from our government, here's the toll and gas and electricity and real estate tax, what's that going to pay for? Of 2,400 kuna minimum wage. Honorable MPs, reject party discipline in this case vote according to your own conscience. This law is not bad regardless of which party it was filed, it should be supported. It represents a step forward, does not solve the problem entirely but in any case if there is a political will, if there is a good will, there is no reason why this House unanimously does not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35419	Thank you for your presentation. We have three replicas. The first replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35420	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. So I would like to say that it is interesting to listen to the exposure of my colleagues to Bunjca because it points to the unsustainability of the current social situation in the country, but what shocks the most is that the state has the most impact on the weakest citizens and has the least mercy on them. However, our Tax Administration refuses to provide information on whether Ivica Todorovic was exempt from tax debt. And why does it matter? It is important because the Tax Administration says that Ivica Todoric, or Agrokor, does not have a tax debt, and is indebted to all sides. And the logical question has been asked as far as possible and then they asked whether perhaps, the Indxa journalist, there might have been a settlement in which a large part or part of the debt was written off. The Ministry of Finance refused to give that information under false reasoning, be careful which one, that it is not a matter of public interest and that the public is not interested. And I'm livingly wondering because I know when I was in debt to the IRS, that the IRS wouldn't forgive me for that debt, that they asked me to pay up to the last June. Still asked me if you'd like to pay today or tomorrow because tomorrow is the second amount to be paid. So the citizens are loaned, the people are robbed, the companies in debt, I remember when Todorovic Belje bought, he bought for the kuna firm because it was in debt and then when he bought it for the kuna then it was in a miraculous way that the debts were written off. So this is all one failed policy of favoring tycoons and trampling ordinary people, working people, poverty, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35421	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35422	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Agent Pernar. So we hear that in Croatia there are people who can tax evasion as they like, who can be in debt to the state of billions of kuna taxes, who can live at the same time in castles, who can ride yachts and fly in the Caribbean, and ordinary citizens are allowed to live with 2,400 kuna. And I believe that you have spoken, I believe that all MPs have spoken to people who live on a minimal, how do mothers who have to choose between directors and food and what to choose, will you freeze yourself, sit in the dark, be without water, or will you buy food for your children? How do parents who can't pay for it? I don't know how to take trips to my kids, who can't go to the park to buy ice cream because they just don't have, don't have. But if they're due, but only three days before that payment deadline goes by, they'll get a warning right away, they'll get a threat right away, they'll be ringing their doorbells, they'll get the hang of it right away, capitals will be harassing them from morning to night with 36 calls, killing them mentally, and the state will tell them, you're the cost, you've got enough of what you want. Such a state is the mother to our workers, we could tell the stepmother, and it's really not fair that now that all our citizens have survived they still have to testify to this unremembered scandal to save a multibillionaire, and there's no increase in minimumers for them even for these humble 300 kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35423	Thank you. Second replica representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35424	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Bunjac, you said well and pointed out that in the EU countries where we are ruling perhaps some other laws than in Croatia, which is not quite likely to be so, but the thing is that these countries are a system of collective bargaining is far more developed than in Croatia. and in these countries, labour prices or minimum wages have been arranged by the only system that has been in Croatia for almost 20 years and has not yet developed to the level in which it should, which is collective bargaining. Without trade unions and employers, this system will not be arranged so that it will also be to the satisfaction of employers and workers. The government can always influence this and this government has done it as well as the SDP government but what the goal is to leave the minimum wage system to those on the labour market, which is employers and trade unions. And that's what I expected from the minister who ran away as a coward not to hear that debate, because I think he might have learned something from this debate today that might have helped him when he talks about minimum wage for 2018. It is absolutely certain that at a time when the state is recovering it is possible that these systems that are burdened with a low labour price can also bear an increase in wages but on the other hand we must also be aware that among these 76 thousand at least 50% receive a fictitious minimum wage, what you have stated and that the rest is received by hand and thus the state is deceived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35425	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35426	Thank you very much. The thing is, dear representative Mrsic, that the political elite has separated from the people and that they simply don't want to talk anymore, they don't want to negotiate, they don't even want to think. Because if they thought about it, they would realize that the minimum wage increase measure would contribute to GDP growth, to contribute to personal consumption, to contribute to the demographic recovery that everyone has been talking about in the last few days. Here we see, and the biggest executives have round tables on demographics, and they don't understand that if people didn't have debts and if they survived a little easier, they could at least borrow from pay to pay and not have to be in debt and be extremely modest. These same elites, they'd even have a much stronger political rating. They would end up personally profiting themselves in some way but they simply can't understand it anymore, they feel themselves like they're living on a separate planet and they'll never have anything to do with us again, that their conscience will never catch up to them, that they'll never agree on anything. But we see, these are the very days that even the most arrogant among them come to order. And everything that's done in life has to be paid. I believe that you, like all those who support today, will sleep peacefully and those who vote against him will not know for sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35427	Thank you. And another last line, MP Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35428	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, I would agree completely that a minimum wage of Croatian workers and Croatian workers should be raised. Employers can easily withstand the failures this country has made over the past 25 years. It is known that some 40,000 craftsmen are closed or are under wraps. Why? How can these people raise that? I'm both a craftsman and a businessman, and my employees have much bigger than this minimumer, and I can say it freely and openly, but I know that some people can't and that they can't do it. So I ask you a question, is it possible that we have an average salary of about 6 thousand kuna in the Croatian state? No one said whether the minimumer was paid in the counties, municipalities, ministries, parliament. No, it's not a minimumer. The minimal is with that employer who can't stand the poor one here today, and there's talk about Todorovic who came to the crash, and he's paid 2.5 thousand kuna in stores. Why? Well, because they've been boasting for 25 years, gentlemen. We boast today, we throw money at things we shouldn't say to miss, from highways, bridges and everything else that's in this country... Who needs that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Employers and people should normally bear that responsibility. Everyone's gonna say they're employers, they're not good people, they're not good people, they're good people, they are, they're sure they are, but they know who these people are who take the yachts that you mentioned that have everything that they shouldn't have and have and an honest employer barely survives hard. Therefore, a minimum wage should be raised but it should be understood by certain employers who cannot even pay their wages unfortunately to their workers. We'd all like our workers to have as much pay as possible, to have as good a standard as possible. How? So people cut costs in this country, those who sit and spend, not those who work and cannot earn their wages. Let's cut costs on some other things where the state made big mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35429	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35430	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Misic, you are right that because of the government's negligence today, a situation has been created in part of the public that employers are against employees, that they are on opposite sides, they are in fact a large majority of them are on the same side and that is that they are both fighting to survive, to survive. The problem is, as I mentioned, that in this country, my work is not inspection, which in this country does not do its job in the judiciary and therefore there is a spread of politics and certain economics, so unfair competition that one can therefore earn billions while keeping workers on the minimum while some of them are making extreme efforts, giving the state all taxes and paying all the taxes and all possible regulations, I don't know about HRT fees, for ZAMPs, I don't know what's not made up. The VAT has now increased since 1.1 and, in fact, as I have said, this whole problem requires a wide range of reforms, but in my opinion, it should first start from the most vulnerable, the most sensitive groups that can in no way be protected except to protect them from their own state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35431	Thank you. We move to the next debate on behalf of SDSS Representative Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35432	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleagues and my colleagues. Before I start discussing this proposal, I'd just like to say something. So, I'd like to see if we had at least one plan in the future, such a plan of schedules, or a plan of debate, that we could prepare ourselves. I respect the secretariat's argument that the bodies have not prepared these next points which were the topics envisaged. But we've actually skipped 9 topics today, and then we expect to have a quality debate about what we expected next week to be on the agenda. Maybe big clubs can do it so you can set it up on sets, but we little ones who do all the jobs find ourselves in a situation where we're discussing this interesting and very important topic today and we're getting ready on our necks, on our noses, and we're expecting it on some agenda that we adopted ourselves and set ourselves some sort of rhythm that's going to be in about 7.8 days. I would pray that this water be taken care of, that the debates should not be baffled because this is how the debates are bagathellised because the debate cannot be prepared. We can talk about everything and in all kinds of ways, but if we're going to discuss these topics in a competent and quality way, we're also looking for time for quality preparation. The proposal for a minimum wage law is as acceptable for us as it is for the reason that the topic itself is acceptable and we think that it needs to be discussed, about minimum wage, about the standard of workers, about the standard of citizens needs to be discussed more and more frequently. In the end, it is the role of politics, concern about the standard of citizens and workers, in the end and the logic of the state and the obligations of the state. It should be debated because the fact is that we spend hours and hours of these discussions on benign topics, and on these topics that are life-saving we spend very little time and very little interest in showing whether SDP promoters or HDZ promoters are looking for equal attention. And besides, the mechanism of working relationship is a very complicated mechanism, as science is a very complex science and should talk about things and I will try to point out some things that go under our radar of interest when we talk about working relationships and behaviours in the field of working relationships. So, the SDSS club supports this initiative, we think it's good, we think it's useful for a particular category of people, but also because of the seriousness of the debate it should answer a few key questions, which is whether this proposal is systematic, whether it's real in some financial sense, a framework. It should be answered through an analysis of the effect that the domino effect will cause in the economy, since the growth in minimum wage means approximately the growth of the average wage by some logic. In addition, as my colleague Misic said before me, what about that category of honest people, honest businessmen, craftsmen who are blocked, what about the mass category of blocked OPGs that can't function at this time, and they have met, largely can't function because of the blockade by banks and according to the state and according to the obligations they had as employers to their employees. So these are assumptions that need to be answered that this legal text could then be applied quality and applied. I'll just say a couple of data just because of the situation that we know what we're talking about. According to data in Croatia, 2 million 700,000 people receive either salaries or pensions, so some sort of material compensation. From that to a thousand kuna fees is paid to 260,000 people. Up to 2 and a half thousand kunas considered to be some kind of existential minimum receive a million people in Croatia, two and a half thousand kunas. Up to five-and-a-half thousand kunas pay and compensation is paid to 104 thousand residents. The salary of 10 thousand kuna receives 16 thousand inhabitants, ranging from 50 to 100 thousand kuna, is received by the statistics by 550 citizens of the Republic of Croatia and more than 100,000 kunas are paid or received by 160 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's a blood count of receiving in the Republic of Croatia and then we see that, so a million and 260 thousand citizens receive a salary below 2 and a half thousand kuna or receiving below 2 and a half thousand kuna. So he lives below the existential minimum. Then we wonder why 300,000 of them were blocked for various purposes, for HRT, for parking, etc. etc. Because they receive only 2 and a half thousand kuna a month. The colleagues have already said what the situation is in the EU, so when it is combined this way, it can be concluded that there are 3 zones in the EU and by financial elements defined, so on average up to 500 euros, there are certain countries, including Croatia, that I am not counting now. In the zone of up to 1,000 euros are countries such as Portugal, Greece, Malta, Spain, Slovenia. And then those third zones, the area over 1,000 euros in receipts are England, France, Ireland, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg. So this is the EU's narrow zone. So this is how the EU profile is defined and announced with the exception that there will be concentration circles in the functioning of the EU. We wonder why young people leave? Because in Germany, a minimum wage of 8.84 euros per hour is guaranteed, so 8 and a half euros are granted to a young man in Germany guaranteed hourly income. He's sitting in... And 50 euros flies to Dublin and Monday has a job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why they're leaving, so the math and the reasons are very simple and let's not run away from our reality. We in the SDSS think there are certain deviations in the labour market, deviations in the behaviour of employers that create certain chaos in the field of work. First of all, we think there's a certain area of working on black, and that's especially done in black, which is why society doesn't control in a quality way, and that's especially about the seasonal jobs in agriculture that are done in black. This is about jobs in tourism, so our youth from the east goes to Dalmatia in Istria to work at cafes and then they're happy to get paid and some accommodation and don't ask if they work registered or working on black. It's important for them to get some money for those three months. So it's some kind of gray economy zone in that summer period. What's especially black is paying off part of the salary and the way the wages are paid. Just because the employer avoids paying full contributions, it has become a common phenomenon, at least in my midst, that the payout is paid by the minimumer is paid by the account, and all the rest is paid by hand. So part pays off on the hands, and... trade chains like the Konzum mentioned and some others do it in bonuses and then commit those women who do poor work for some minimumer there on Saturdays and Sundays to spend half of those bons in their store, so the goods we return to the system of the original trade, and this is also guaranteed traffic to the employer who thus collects part of the wages from his employees. With me you have a company that has 30 employees, has millions of traffic, has a fine profit, a couple of million profits shows, but all 30 workers receive a catcher, all receive a minimumer officially, and there remains pay gaps who know how they receive or know how much they receive. Therefore, it is one behaviour that has become a minor form of behavior in our country, that it is not said that overtime is not paid to also be negotiated beyond legal forms, past legal rules, past collective agreements, etc., etc. We particularly think that this kind of chaos in the labour market is the cause of a certain time that we promoted a few years ago as significant progress in the sphere of labour relations. I say it's not good because over 80% of the forms of working relationships are in the form of work for a certain time. Perhaps the idea was good, perhaps an idea in agreement with some principles of the European directive, but in practice it seems quite different. That's what employers abuse. The worker works for a certain time, the working relationship is interrupted, sent to the bureau, taken again by another man. You have a situation with me that in Belje in viticulture a man for 16 years works for a certain time. So is that legal? A man who's been working for 16 years isn't in a permanent working relationship, he can't take credit, he's not sure if he's going to be at that firm tomorrow or not, etc., etc. So are we with a legal solution like this where employers behave in various ways, someone doesn't abuse it, but a large number... abuses the institute of work at a certain time and we need something urgent to change it. Now, of course, if I step out of the sphere of this topic, and it touches the interests of the citizens, we absolutely need to think about reaching out to the amendments to the factoring law that will ruin our people. So we've given private agencies the opportunity to charge their debts, and they're doing it in a way that I don't characterise it with some kind of difficult qualification. Let's also get into the executive law, let's free the people of these great performances, and then we can talk about a normal market for market redundancy. Let's give the people, let's let the common people breathe a little bit and see. As far as the law itself is concerned, if we agree, and we think we need to get into an increase in this minimum, if we agree that this is realistic, then the analysis of the bill itself is purely nomotechnical. I can now analyse three, four members and what's good and what's not good, I'll leave it for a second reading to the Proposer let the Proposer use it himself with his professional services. I would just like to refer to Article 10, and these are transitional and final provisions, or criminal provisions, where sanctions are imposed on the offenders of this law, and it is said that the fine will be fined from 60 to 100 thousand kuna for the offence of the employer legal person, if he does not pay minimum wage in the prescribed time limits, etc., I think he should be a little more flexible. Perhaps there are sometimes reasonable reasons why the employer has exceeded the pay-out deadline. If we leave this possibility on the second day, this kind of disposition to this law, then we give room to sue, so every worker who has been paid no salary behind the prescribed deadline is looking for a private lawsuit, he's pressing a private suit, and the inspection has to punish the employer for 100 thousand kuna. So let's just be a little bit more life-tight and find a more suitable model. Clearly, it is necessary to remain an obstacle to discipline, but it should not be as strictly defined as it is now. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. And this isn't the happiest solution because someone who employs 400 workers, if they're 10 days late with pay and they multiply times 400, these are some things that I don't find too logical or stimulating for the economy or for that individual. Therefore, this part of Article 10 would suggest that the applicant do a little combing. And in the end, we will accept this legal proposal to go to another reading. The very idea of raising minimum wages we absolutely welcome, we think that it is in line with the times and needs of people and markets and the moment of today but I must conclude that we, in the end, realize one of my personal impressions is that we have become a society of mega-markets and show businesses, that we have stopped working, that we do not know what real work is anymore, that this cult of work we have lost and that we have to return it. We haven't had any more in the Baranja master since the Whites closed the meat industry, and we had 1200 just in the meat industry. We're out of butchers, and there's no one of interest in being a butcher, so he's going to high school professional, so there's no more of that. By what we as a society were known in Europe for the good masters of this in the east no longer exists. The question is, where did it get lost, where did we lose our reality in this whole mega-market policy, show of business and that consumerism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35433	Thank you. We have a few replicas on your exhibit, so if you haven't got anything to say in the debate on behalf of the club, you'll have space through the replicas. First replica representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35434	Dear Representative Horvat, I am pleased that you accept the bill because it is going towards a minimum wage system in Croatia and that all the negativity seen by the implementation of the existing law to be resolved through this law means that workers who work for minimum wage are not included in their minimum wage both overtime and night work, shift work, that is all that employers have done so far. So I'm sorry that here there is no Minister Ćorić, and he's probably afraid to be here with us, to hear our remarks that we might be a good incentive for the government to come out with a proposal for a minimum wage law because Croatian citizens deserve it. What's the problem with the minimum labour price in Croatia is that you can give the building engineer a minimum wager, regardless of what the company does well, is not lost and it is legal and legal. Although we know that's not true, it's likely that with that minimumer, this building engineer gets some extra money under the table or some other way. And that's what's the problem in Croatia that these 76,000 people who are on the minimum are a large number and are not on the real minimal. And what we have to worry about is really those people who are on that minimum salary of those cashiers that are in the shops. And what the government has now done has made it even worse for these cashiers because it has made it possible to amend the law, to adopt the Employment Encouragement Act so that these cashiers who work for a certain period of time are fired and to replace them with finished merchants for 2600 kuna as much as that professional training is, therefore, absolutely free of charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35435	The answer to the replica you won't. Thank you very much. Next replica, Agent Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35436	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Horvat, here I would like to replicate with you a few details from your debate, firstly you said this importance of the topic, about the importance of the topic, it would be possible to discuss something that doesn't matter to me and so, every topic that comes here to the Assembly is important and we can't underestimate a single topic, maybe it's the last report that one of us considers to be of no importance to anyone and it's vital to someone. But that's not why I answered. In your debate, you've talked quite realistically, you haven't been a populist, you haven't talked nonsense, just to talk about it, to come to the debate here, and that's why there's not much to replicate, but just like this consideration of your debate, I mean mostly working on black, clearly that working on black is something that needs to be resolved. But I've reported more of this work for a certain time. We here have to discuss what Mr. Misic was talking about, it's a serious discussion of the man who earned the salary and assured others to get paid. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people in this House who have never earned a salary in their lives, nor have they ever paid anyone, and they are the loudest, they know everything. They give you lectures about everything and live their whole lives at the expense of another. And this work for a certain time and simply say, but someone who is an entrepreneur, someone who has to earn a salary for others, it's not easy to give someone indefinite time, and everywhere in the world absolutely needs protection of workers and labour rights. I'm a worker's child, my father's a worker, and I know how bloody it is to live with minimum wages. But we can't invite entrepreneurs and give people to everyone indefinitely. Can they do that? How much do they make? We here need to make sure that we create the best conditions for these. And then it can happen that for 16 years someone's been working in the vineyard for a certain time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35437	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35438	Thank you, dear colleague. Well, I'm the same thing from some real sector before politics I came and something, I know what it's like to earn a salary, I think my father was a private man, a schneider, so he never got a chance to get a government salary, it doesn't matter. I remember a time when working for a certain time was an exception. And we at the firm had to explain very well why someone is now receiving a certain time when the basis of everything was the safety of that working man, is not a demagogue, but it really was, and he had to work indefinitely, so. You had to give him some assumption if he was a neat, hardworking worker and he didn't create problems that he would be able to build the future both through loans and through the purchase of apartments and through everything, so through one general business security. And then we took this model that was imposed on us and we didn't analyze it too well, neoliberal capitalism, so we said the basis is now work for a certain time, we reversed the relationship. And I, as far as I've been following things for the last two, three years, even those who have invented this model, are giving up that model and returning slowly based on a steady working relationship and criticizing this model of work on a particular one. So, what was it. I'd just suggest and say that this model for a certain time is usually the generator of some bad processes in a working relationship. If you do, I repeat again if I have a man working in a combination in Belje for 16 years a certain time, so let's get into his situation. And how are we going to justify that model from our own perspective when you've been working for 16 years and you can't even raise a simple loan because you're not sure that after three months you'll work again? That's all I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35439	Thank you. The next replica representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35440	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Horvat, unlike Mr. Sanader, I will agree with you that this is a very important and important subject and I will also agree with you that it is unserious to skip such a agenda that from the 1st point we come to 14. Because surely when the government passed new laws on tax reform it was a very important topic and we all concluded that this tax reform was just good for the reason that it was given to entrepreneurs, businessmen, someone tells large capital. But the fact is that there is no investment in new jobs if tax reform is not implemented in a way that makes it easier for economies to invest. And in this way it was interpreted that since they will remain more funds than tax reform that there will also be an increase in wages. But from the debate, we see that up to the salary hike, and the minister himself said this morning that no one is defending the economy's pay raises. But we're asking a question, and who's going to make him raise his salary because surely until nobody makes him pay the minimum? And you said yourself then a large number of those and the gentleman said that there are both good businessmen and those bad ones. The bad guys who cheat on the state exactly the way the workers pay on black, which those workers when they retire or go to sick leave then get a minimum wage. And it's the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, since it has made one framework for entrepreneurs and businessmen in the same way, must create a framework of exactly that minimum wage. And I certainly support the Law on the raise of minimum wages, and I believe that everyone in this House will support it. And the next thing I know, I'm sure the market dictates things. But we also have today and we are witnessing that just the businessmen and entrepreneurs They're looking for labour imports. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35441	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35442	My dear colleague, I think that's the way everyone acts so they all pay off, not everyone, and I said wrongly, I apologize to those who pay their wages neatly. So that part of the people of the business that uses that black hole in the law that it's possible to pay only minimum wage, and the rest without control to pay by hand or through bonuses that it's kind of a blow to the pension system. And we can now ask ourselves in the long run how will such a way of economics and such a way of filling the position of the pension system be reflected in the capacity of the pension system? If most businessmen only pay a minimum contribution rate, then what do we expect to have in 15, 10, 15 years how do we have a stable pension system? Those two things go off. So either we're all going to be disciplined, so the system will work, or we have to be aware then that we're allowed with this kind of work to bring down an important system where society rests.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35443	Thank you. Next replica representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35444	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you're fine, I like how you explained the minimum wage situation, then how employers manage to make one part official payment is a minimum wager and another difference means what we say in black. But I'm curious if you agree with what I'm about to say. Minimum salaries are quite logical consequences of the current economic policy and the party Change Croatia supports this request or the SDP bill. He's quite logical, normal. However, as a representative, I would like to know why they did not implement the Minimal Act on their own in the previous term and increase the minimum. What's this about? The wrong economic policy, which is led in this way by the waste of the state to a large fleet, to inefficientness, to the management of the wrong policy of the unrealistic exchange rate, high interest rates, 12 billion interest payments that the state must pay on its debt over the year, all of this came down on the back and shoulders of workers. So someone has to pay for all this. We in the economy say that this is an internal devaluation policy when you don't know anything about it or you won't solve it by economic policy then of course we have to have a minimum-level policy and it's a legitimate thing for us economists because there is no other solution. Question to you. Since we know that the increase in minimumers is a question of the necessity of a change in economic policy that lasts 20 years because it is the same, do you think that this government is now ready to give up and change its meaning, the essence of economic policy so that it can increase the minimals? And they will come legally anyway because the people who went out here are missing, now they're going to start to necessarily raise their wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35445	Now he can't give up his reply to the replica. You must answer Mr. Lovrinovic's question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35446	Dear Professor, I agree with your findings. I don't have much to add, otherwise I would enter a sphere where I'm not quite up to you to replicate, but I definitely think that all of our failures in the economy are ultimately reflected in the position of workers. Who else but one who earns some income. It's a logical thing. Unfortunately, they are getting smaller and smaller and bigger and greater burdens and the public sector and other structures are on the man who works. And then we opened up our own regulation to them the possibility that this work would be minimized in a way that only minimum wage would be paid, and the rest would be given to black channels. We underestimated this man because we don't wonder what his retirement base will be in 20 years if he's still only receiving a minimumer, so it'll be meaningless. But people in their despair keep quiet, work, say nothing, don't object, keep it a place of work so they don't lose it. And these are desperate people, in fact, it's not a fair relationship with these people who earn practically a lot of money for all of us. The first thing you said was, you called the promoter, I don't call anyone, I don't know why they didn't regulate it differently when they were in position, but I don't blame them now that they're setting these topics up in this way because it's legitimately the right of the opposition and I think they need more of these initiatives. Maybe we'll also have discussions on these topics more often and more often.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35447	Thank you. Next replica representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35448	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Horvat, when you mentioned Belje, it's hard not to mention whose name was Belje, whom it belonged to, which White used to mean. Who, these days, from Belgium, hastily hauled corn tows, grain pickers, reportedly to Italy. Where are the pigs' tows going? Supposedly in Hungary. It would be a question that would be interesting to hear the answer. But I would actually like to switch to the debate that we have now, here you mentioned these contracts for a certain time, it is indeed one of the most difficult weights in the Croatian economy, especially as regards youth employment. They are in great uncertainty, literally exploiting them in every way possible, starting with that so-called. professional training, through those contracts to a certain extent. You said you knew a man who worked for a certain age for 16 years. I know people before retirement who work on these contracts for a certain time, 9 months working or 6 don't know how much, so it's 3 at home, so it's back to being registered, working forever for the minimumer, never getting overtime paid, Saturdays and Sundays no one ever reckons, holidays also if he has to work within his norm. Mr. Sanader and HDZ may not be interested in this topic as some other topic, and that is not to be surprised when their IFO institute has proposed that the minimum wage be abolished. So maybe they'd actually want the pay to be lifted if people were getting 300, 400 kuna, and these billionaires had even more yachts and more planes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35449	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35450	Dear Comrade Bunjac, I hope that the minimum wage will not be abolished because it would be beyond all normal standards. You mentioned White, it's too serious a story and I don't have the ambition to talk about White. That requires a good elaborate. I will only be in the thesis, so Belje was one of the most closed systems in the Balkans, not the former state. Before privatisation, there were 8 and a half thousand people, with 22 plants, after privatisation on today, for 1,200 people, and the rest were just plants that are connected to state incentives. So it's the owner's interest, what's connected to the country, and something else with the country that can be subsidized by the incentives from the budget. All that was to be invested and all that was some kind of upgrade, etc. Was some kind of cost sold, closed, etc. And that's White today. It's Baranja today, so in Baranja today you don't have more than, I don't know, you don't have more than 28,000 people, everything's gone because they don't have anywhere to work. Well, we can't expect anyone to stay where there's no job. And while it worked, they all worked and they were all there and Baranja had 54,000 inhabitants and everything revolved around Belje. That's why systemic things, system policies, and if we make a mistake here, then the consequences are much greater than we think.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35451	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35452	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the end of last year, the SDP sent to the parliamentary procedure the Final Proposal for a minimum wage law, unfortunately it is not possible by voting to do so according to the emergency procedure, so we found ourselves here today to discuss it and it is really sad that there are so many of us, and it is probably also one of the reasons why the law on the nose has come to the agenda today, simply that the less talk of the law in the public, among the people, because it is a law concerning not only 76,000 of those who are minimal but also all workers in the Republic of Croatia. We have referred the law to the procedure because we wanted to encourage all of you parliamentary representatives but also the public to discuss the minimum cost of working in Croatia, but also how to arrange the minimum wage institute, so I am sorry that there is no one here from the ministry, the minister could at least leave someone to hear our thoughts and suggestions about the law itself that is extremely important for workers in Croatia. Because as parliamentary representatives, we are invited to address citizens' problems, and the minimum wage certainly is, and that is why today I am glad that we can discuss this proposal and I hope that the debate will also result in concrete solutions. Although Minister Coric is missing, I would like to ask him a question, he will likely have the opportunity to hear a stenogram. In fact, the government has refused to regulate the issue legally and means whether the government believes there is no problem because of the fact that there is a problem because of at least a question of minimum wage definition and that is the minimum requirement for a legal solution. That the minimum wage issue is important, it is clear to all, but no less important is the issue of salaries in the Republic of Croatia and the distribution of social wealth between those who work and those who have capital. Therefore, it is also one of the issues that should be addressed this way. And the minimum wage is the beginning of solving that problem. We need a clear, transparent and predictable minimum wage system and that is the direction required by the legislative initiative, and I expect the government to focus on the minimum wage problem, not on the problem of putting these problems under the carpet, despite this negative opinion of this law. I am therefore surprised by the government's refusal to deal with these problems and this shows that the government is not interested in solving citizens' problems, workers' problems, but is pushing them under the carpet. It's a shame today's debate took a course that shouldn't have taken place, so with each other's criticism of who did what, instead of looking for solutions. Because if our proposal is not good, we should have heard what is good today in Croatia and how better to settle this issue. Unfortunately, we didn't hear anything in the assembly today except the shooting. Because the question of minimum wage is one of the questions required by the consensus of all in Croatia and not about the level of pay to avoid daily political bickering, but about the mechanisms of determining the level of pay to be clearly defined in Croatia, which are parameters affecting minimum wage. I therefore found it odd to say that it was unnecessary in law to leave the issue of minimum wages to be settled by collective bargaining. The collective negotiation in Croatia is one of the foundations of a tripartite dialogue, the basis of the agreement between workers and employers, so I found it odd for the minister of work to talk about the problem in a way that he should not be respected at all. The minimum wage in Croatia is something that has already been arranged, due to the strike and pressure on the government there in 2009, when the first minimum wage law was passed, however, it did not lead to the minimum wage in Croatia being increased rather than beset at 37%. Therefore, in 2013, a new minimum wage law was adopted which unblocked the minimum wage and minimum salary since 2013 and when we talk about how much it was, we are going to see very clear figures. When we talk about minimum wage, the share of minimum wage in the average minimum salary was moving in 2013. 42%, 2016. 44% so this bidding as the minimum wage is increased game by numbers. It has increased, it has increased since 2013 and whether it has increased 5 or 10% depends on what our conditions were when we could increase the minimum wage. I note that by 2013 the minimum wage did not increase in Croatia, it was constantly at a level of around 37 to 38%. Respecting the fact that the law that was in force until today is still in force, we hoped to replace it with this law, has a certain rigidity in achieving the 50% minimum wage goal. That is the answer to the question, why did the SDP government not make and raise wages to 50%. In law, if you read it well, it says very clearly that the goal is to achieve 50% of the minimum wage in average salary. And that was the purpose of that law. According to this, we didn't give up then either, but in the circumstances in which we are, we raised as much as we could under those conditions. Clearly, by looking at that law, we see that he has not achieved his goal and therefore we have proposed this new law. There have been a lot of criticism here about whether minimum wage will lead to the layoff of workers in the wood, textile, processing industry, the store that has the most workers on the minimum. This was one of the great reasons for employers because employers always point out this, it will now lead to the layoff of 50,000 workers, we will destroy these industries with a minimum wage increase in 2013, 2014 and 2015, and even now 2016 and 2017 there has been no layoff of workers in these sectors, which is in the interest of our thesis that minimum wage in Croatia is possible, greater than that now. Therefore, there is an obvious area for the growth of minimum wage with the aim of... 50% of the average salary and looking at Slovenia, Slovenia went faster than we did because it immediately passed a law where it fixed the minimum wage to 50% of the average salary and then it adjusted further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this bill goes with it, too, but it respects our facts and our conditions and our economy, and we predicted that it goes in two, two years 5% of every year and then corresponds to the parameters that we agree with. It must also not be removed from sight from that social moment because the minimum wage institute is a social protection instrument and this law proposes that this social moment be greatly respected. And it shouldn't interfere with your mind when it comes to voting on this law. He is not only a labour price but he is also a social protective instrument that keeps workers from falling below the poverty line. Because research in Croatia has shown that the job of anyone who saves workers from falling below the poverty line. The law stipulated that by 2018 we would reach 50% of the average salary and that after that, we would then get in line from year to year. It was also a question of what with a minimum wage and what with a minimum salary code, whether this would lead to the increase in minimum wages increasing work to black, non-minimum, increase in minimum wages is an instrument for reducing work to black. Because what colleagues have also noted is that in some cases we can say in about 50% of cases in Croatia that 2620 minimum workers are not actually paid by workers, but it is a salary that is only registered to the state and that the rest is then paid in other ways. And what should also be stressed is that this great role is also played by the War Inspectorate, and as far as I hear from the ruling ones, the labour inspectorate wants to be abolished and to connect with the State Inspectorate, which is a step back or allowing certain irregularities to be done again in the labour market that will not be sanctioned. The fact is that when we talk about the inspectorate, the inspectorate is working in this way as it has been formed so far, that with the Ministry of Labour, such a system has most EU countries. It should also be pointed out that this collective bargaining mechanism means that employers with their trade unions can arrange a lower minimum wage than the one agreed by law. In this current version of the law that's in force, that's 5%. And looking at what happened in these here four years now, only in two cases, by collective bargaining and by agreement, that minimum wage was reduced by 5%. Which means that this thesis that minimum wage will put jobs at risk because employers have obviously understood and accepted the need to pay workers and to allow workers to have a good minimum wage. In this version of the law we even went one step further and we allowed 10% of the minimum wage to be lower but clearly in the collective bargaining system where both employers and workers sit together and agree on that, yes, here for this year or for these months while we are in difficulty we will have a minimum wage but therefore not a dictatorship of the state but a deal between unions and employers. We believe that these, the increase in this amount of minimum wage will not have negative economic consequences and it is also clear that it will not lead to the rise of the entire wage scale because employers negotiate basics up to the level of minimum wage, it was one of the the thesis. On a sample of 200 current collective agreements concluded in the private sector, only 8 of those whose basic salary is contracted at minimum wage. Therefore, there is no saying at all that there will be any impact on economic, economic indicators. And lastly, I am sorry that the government refused this, this bill because workers and workers of Croatia have given up much in the last 10 years to keep their jobs and keep any wages. It is time for economic recovery to be poured into the pockets of our citizens, not just those who are rich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35453	And you will have as much time as your previous colleague to respond in replicas to what you did not say in the debate because you have 7 replicas of your exposure. So the first replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35454	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Well, here I am listening to my colleague Mrsic and actually our society is in one paradox today. In one paradox, because on one side of the SDP, good laws are proposed, minimum wage is raised and aided to the poor. On the other hand, the government is making up a law of lex Todorovic to protect one man and his property, an asset that he has not pawned in private. So he doesn't have a mortgage at the castle. He'll still live happily ever after. The government, however, says, must help him, or his company. And now what? The same ones who want to help Ivica Todorovic, or his firm, refuse to help people living on a minimum wage. How do you interpret that paradox? How to interpret the paradox for people who live on a minimum salary to vote for HDZ, for those who care for tycoons, for those who taught him kuna factories, for those who forgave him and today forgive his debts, for those who hide the real financial situation, for those who protect him from every inspection and surveillance, etc. etc. And on the other hand, those who keep saying that there is no reward for the poor, that the wages should not be raised, that then it may be for the bosses. That's the story, how would it be for the boss if, say, the cashier's wages were raised in the Konzum? These are the arguments and I think that the Croatian public must be aware of who in this debate, or who stands on whose side today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35455	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35456	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Pernar, I do not know if you are aware that the latest study by the European Union Confederation and the European Trade Institute on Payments in the EU Member States shows a devastating situation for Croatia because Croatia is among the seven EU member states whose wages are lower now than 8 years ago. And these were Croatia's declines from 2010 to 2016 by 1%. Well, isn't it expected the government to sit here with us and make that argument that if they didn't hear it, and that's the same argument that then the minimum wage goes up. There was a clear crisis, so no pay could be raised, but the crisis had passed and it was time to raise and minimum wage but to raise and pay. And I'm going to talk again and again and I'm going to keep saying that it's a shame that there's no one from the government here in the benches, and believe me when there's a lex Agrokor that both Prime Minister Plenkovic and the entire government will be sitting here. What is more important Agrokor than workers in Croatia on minimum wage? And that's something to think about, because this is a law on workers that in Croatia a law that allows them to have a higher minimum wage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35457	Thank you very much. Second replica, MP Mladen Madyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35458	I thank the chairman. Dear Representative Mrsic, that in order to increase the minimum wage that, while agreeing with counterpart Misic, it is necessary to see employers who have come into trouble and who are the problem of paying, to raise minimum wages due to certain reasons at the state level which did not come because of personal problems to raise their minimum wage. But at the same time, employers living in fairies have yachts, while paying minimum wage. It refers primarily to all those who work in large trade chains, who have three days a year free, it is Christmas, New Year and Easter, practically as if they live in a slave society. Their children don't have, they don't pay for bread, and at the same time they work for tycoon ships, they have planes, helicopters, and they live on account of these workers who don't even have children who don't have bread. So I ask where's the labour inspection? Where's the IRS so someone can get a few billion kunas of debt? At the same time, they're doing errands for a hundred kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35459	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35460	Thank you very much. The Honorable legislator in the law is a mechanism for employers who are in difficulty. One of the mechanisms is that a smaller minimum wage could be agreed with the union, but another mechanism that was there in Croatia was the law on the preservation of jobs that this government had abolished because it felt that nothing would happen, that the law was unnecessary because last year 87 workers used the law. So that's the law that gets the employer into trouble and can't pay and the minimum wage to the worker can win, the worker gets the minimum wage from the state. When the employer recovers, the country has helped the period. That's what this government has abolished as if it thinks there'll never be employers who won't be in trouble. And the second thing this government announces is the abolition of the labour inspectorate and the accession of the labour inspectorate to the state inspectorate that we know he was a mastodont, that he was a litter of corruption. To point out that at the State Inspectorate, the State Audit was never and that it was one body that had completely lost its purpose. Everywhere in EU countries, the labour inspectorate is linked to the competent ministry, and it needs to be strengthened and given even more power, and then this respect for workers' rights will probably be much better, as employers will be very afraid of the great penalties that have been hampered by the laws we have brought here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35461	Thank you. Next up is Agent Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35462	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Lobster, it's clear that minimum wage is something that you should strive to make it 50% but even more. But it's crucial that a man can live off that minimum wage, and any government that doesn't tend to that is certainly not a national government. You have said through your discussion two attitudes that surely confirm the seriousness of the situation and the seriousness of making such a decision. You said first what were the conditions that she could increase the minimum wage. You're speaking from your time clearly, it's justified and it's a serious debate and it's the only way we can talk seriously about minimum pay as well as that you've raised it as much as possible in the given conditions. These are the two statements of yours that say that you have resolved the question of minimum wage. And now after three, four months of this government, you're already calling the government, and most importantly, you said that at the end of last year you sent this to emergency procedures. If this were directed by the HSS, then someone else would have been acceptable and reasonable. But you've had four years of time and not as far as I've heard today, the minister has clearly said that this government has raised a minimum wage in this period of several months more than you have in four years. Your proposal must also be responsible. You can't come here now after 4 years of your government and now you'd raise your minimum wage, and you didn't do it in 4 years quality. It is by some minimum amounts. And you have no good arguments. Did you consult the Croatian Association of Employers, Trade Union and all that you say should be done in social dialogue to see if they are employers, is the situation in society such that the minimum wage can be raised significantly more at this point? And all these arguments, I think, are at least giving your party the right to give minimum wage lessons under these conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35463	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35464	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sanader, let's go with the arguments. In the first row, the share of minimum salaries in the average gross salary in 2016 was 40.3 and not 38 as much as Minister Coric spoke all the time. So you objectively raised the minimum wage by 2.5% and not 5%, and that's what the employers said. For the first time, they said a minimum wage should be raised in Croatia but not by 5% but by 2.5% and that is a fact. You have a statement from Mr. Majetic who said no, we can't raise 5%, but only 2.5% and you did that, you raised it by 2.5%. You fulfilled what the employers wanted, and we wanted this law to make the minimum wage share in the average salary of 45% in 2017 and to be 50% in 2018. And how important this law is for you, you said there was no one here in the assembly that doesn't matter who we have from the government. So it doesn't matter what we say or what the government hears, because it's obvious that the government isn't having a minimum wage problem. They don't have a problem with workers, but they're some other problems they're dealing with right now. But this is about 76,000 of our citizens who are on a minimum wage. Again, I note that some are not and that it should be seen with good inspection and with good collective agreements that this is no longer happening. But here I expected at least a secretary of state or an assistant, but I think there's a place and a minister, or he's a coward, so he went not to hear what we're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35465	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35466	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35467	Next replica representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35468	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, here I am trying to convince myself that you are not proposing and that the SDP Club does not propose this to pre-election activities and promotions in local elections. I think the SDP Club is too serious to go with this bill for these reasons, and then I believe that when you went into the creation of this law, you had mathematical, economic indicators that instructed you to just propose 50% of the average gross earnings in the Republic of Croatia. That's how much I really respect the SDP Club. I think you were when you suggested it was 50% that then you based it on valid data and exact data. If that's what you're saying, I'm saying because there's other reasons I can't see, then you're actually going against yourself with this proposal. By 15 months ago, you were the most responsible person in the Republic of Croatia who should have implemented such a policy. If mathematical data gives you the basis to increase 50% now, then I ask you, do you feel responsible for keeping such a low minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia for 4 years? Because let me remind you, since you left the post of Minister of GDP, 1.6% and 2.9% last year with you growing in GDP in that year, you were 10, 11, almost all year long you were actually responsible for the functioning of the government because, as you know, the government of Oreshkovic was appointed in 2016. Therefore, GDP growth is 1.6% to you, so let it be at the highest percentage if we add more growth in 2016 of 4.5% to demand a 50% salary increase. I think you're wrong then. In that mathematics calculated the data. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35469	Thank you. We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35470	Thank you very much. Just to point out that GDP started falling when you were in the government, that we know where we're going and what we're talking about. But, Reverend Bacic, GDP itself is not the only criterion for a minimum wage increase. You have the poverty line. You have what the State Statistics Institute publishes every year on how many people are below the poverty line, which is the poverty line, you also have that... index in Croatia that says how many people are affected by this poverty and again mentions that the minimum wage and social security instrument is citizens and that it should be discussed when the minimum wage is negotiated. And fashion is unknown to you, but the Ministry of Labour and the pension system that I led was a study on minimum wage, both representatives and unions and employers and independent experts worked. I am sorry that Minister Coric did not use this study where it is very simple and shown that it is necessary to raise the minimum wage automatically to one level, and then align it with the parameters we agree on. At that time when we unblocked the minimum wage, there was no possibility that it was going up because it was such economic conditions, what is now being praised by your prime minister and finance minister, that the situation was wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, the budget growing, everything growing, and we raised the minimum wage de facto by only 2.5% as much as the employers asked for, and not as much as the unions thought. And that's a fact, of that fact, I wouldn't even argue about that anymore, which we didn't, we unblocked, you raised. But what's the fact that it needs to be raised even more, and that's what we need to agree on, not fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35471	Time. Next replica representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35472	Thank you very much. Dear Mrsic, the fact is that today we are discussing the wishes through the law of the SDP, when we talk about minimum wage and on the other hand we are listening to arguments that speak about the possibilities of the state and the most endangered industries, textile, leather and woodworking, in the sense that I can also pay this minimum wage which is now or which has been until recently. You've been a minister for four years, and the fact is that the SDP has already proposed several laws that he didn't have the courage to bring when he could, when he had all the power. When we talk about no government representatives, I personally spoke here on behalf of the Club about several laws, Mr. Stazic was sitting behind me. The government was proposing, there was no one to explain those laws. I've been told so we'll discuss what we can do, if a representative of the government comes, if we don't come to the debate in the Parliament, we can lead because the Rules of Procedure knows it. And we've accepted that, and I don't know why it bothers you right now, and you're the promoter and you're defending your bill. As far as your stories go, let's get to it. You made a decision on the level of minimum wage in the mandate of the Technical Government in 12 months 2015. So at the end when you left, when you were already everything, when everything had already been seen by the election results and everything was in progress. I think that's enough. When you passed that regulation, you said there were 20,000 people in Croatia who receive minimum wage, and this law says in a year that it is 100,000 people who are now talking about 100,000 people who receive minimum wage. Why was there 20 under worse economic conditions then, and now there are 100,000? It means we use the moments that suit you. And as for your deal with the unions, they warned you that you didn't talk to them at all, and you said you talked but failed to agree on a minimum wage level, because that's the maximum you could offer at that moment. Why is this now the maximum of this government that has raised as much as it could bargain with union leaders? Well, you explain that to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35473	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35474	I'll explain. So, even this government, your Plenkovic – Coric did not reach an agreement with the unions. And you have to admit that, too, ask why? Because the unions asked for 5%, the employers said 2.5%. In our time, I speak at the time of the SDP government, employers were apriors against any increase in minimum wage. And you passed the laws, HDZ passed the law in 2009 that frozen the minimum wage. We had the courage to unfreeze minimum wage at a time of crisis when GDP fell, at a time when jobs were lost. We had the courage to pass that law, which clearly states that our goal is to reach 50% minimum wage. 2016 is she to 40.2% You are therefore Minister Coric raised to 42.something%, by 2.5%, but again I am telling you it is not important to increase, it is important to make a step. In 2012, we made a step and in the crisis we unblocked the minimum wage and no one lost their job and the textile industry paid the minimum wages. But what we've seen is what you don't see now because you go to the employers' hands is that it's the minimum wage that they're putting all the overtime and the night and the norms and the shifts into it. And that's not the aim of minimum pay. And that's one of the reasons why we want to change this law. But obviously, he's as good as he is to you. It's not for us. We brought it in in 2013 we thought it was rigid, didn't achieve the success that we said had to be 50% minimum wage. We want to fix it to make it better. We have the courage to suggest this as we had the courage and in 2013, in 2012 the law was passed in the wake of the crisis to pass such a law that we unblocked the minimum wage that you hated.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35475	Thank you very much. The next replica representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35476	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to say once again that from the point of view of the SDP, the minimum wage is not the cost of what colleagues from HDZ see and this law we propose is not the cost law, but the minimum wage law that should provide at least the most valuable life for the most vulnerable workers in Croatian society. He said the minister that employers can now raise minimum wage and that it does not have to be minimal. They say HDZ gentlemen that the increase in minimum wages threatens the leather, textile and wood industry. Well, we don't have to watch it, we don't have to look at private employers, let's take a look here where we sit. In this building in the Parliament, people work for 2,300 kuna. Now we've been, fellow Bora, thank you very much you don't have to yell, I heard you just before all right. Now you've been to lunch just now, and you've been served by people who work for a minimum salary of 2,300 kuna, and because of these people, we're proposing this law because you can't say that they're a government cost. Every day they bring us coffee, and every day they run around us, and they work on a minimal. Now, let's take a look at this, don't tell me that the Parliament will be threatened if these people get 500 kunas more pay. What are we going to stop? They're why we're passing this law, so support him. Don't talk to that ballad. And when we talk about employers, they're not all the same. Today it's said we have bosses and we have those who aren't, we have those who, when they fall into financial problems, are passed laws to save them, and we have those who are liquidated, we have those when they are liquidated whose financial directors go to the stock market, and we have those who go to the government to write laws to save them, etc. But that's the HDZ that's already been seen and we see it all the time and history repeats and repeats and repeats. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35477	Time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35478	Thank you very much. It should be mentioned and this is clearly coming out of focus all the time and we are talking about how much someone has increased, as far as anyone has not increased, I want to draw your attention to one fact, that the purpose of introducing a minimum wage is to prevent the exploitation of workers and that is the purpose of minimum pay. It is not the purpose of the minimum wage that the labour price will be like this and that, the price is to prevent the exploitation of workers with such a minimum wage that is below 50% is in that sphere. On the other hand, we have a gap between the lowest wage, so minimum wage and the highest salary. Because what's going on? The minimum wage has been frozen all year long until the government adopts a new regulation and the share of minimum salaries in the average salary paid at the beginning of the year is the highest, but then as it goes towards the end of the year, more and more falls because the wages are growing, and the minimum one remains frozen. At 50%, we're out here to keep that part fixed, and it won't be that big gap that's up until now. And why did we bring it in at 11 or 12 months? Because you couldn't possibly form a government. You and MOST couldn't agree at all, and it's time for a minimum wage regulation to bring in whoever has a government, who's going to rule for the next four years. And therefore, given that the government is one of the partners with trade unions and employers, it was logical that the government did not bring a minimum wage on departure but rather a new government. And what you've been up to for three months, and you haven't been able to make a deal is not the problem of the government that was on its way out. And that's why and minimum wage agreed on by the unions, employers and government, the new government [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35479	And another replica of Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35480	Representative Mrsic, the law is undeniably good and acceptable. Certainly 3,800 and that is not a minimum wage that is sufficient under these circumstances, but I was saying that in previous discussions i.e. replicas that the situation in legal uncertainty is a bigger problem mainly for people who have an obligation to the employer to them to work, but this law would talk a lot about but I will have a debate, but I see that during the replicas, Agrokor was mentioned. All the governments participated in Agrokor, including you. You know where the money went to eu funds that need to go to the O.P.G., you know where it went? Todoric. You didn't make anything less warm than you did here, you just had a shorter period. So let's talk about the law, let's talk about what we're about to talk about because it's unimaginable in Croatian society today you have people who can't pay for the medicine, they don't have money. And it's unthinkable for a politician to be the only member of the family to owe 10.5 million kuna to HZZO, that's unimaginable. So when we talk about this law, then we're going to talk about a law that will help what a colleague has just said to a man who has two thousand kunas down here in the Parliament who serves us and who has not exercised his right. We can bring ten thousand kunas. Everyone would like to be a minimum wage of ten thousand kuna, but applicability is at stake. How many... employer... payrolls, so the payrolls that say minimum wage, below minimum pay, do they get it, is that paid? So regulations are much more important, control and enforcement in me. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to support this personal law, and I'm even going to give the amendment I promised for a higher salary because it's been since 2017. 5% higher, and during your government it was 2.3% But that was a shift, too. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35481	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35482	Thank you very much. So the correction of the wrong allegation, so it wasn't 2.5% during our government, but we're talking about a minimum wage increase again, and there's no other one from 2013 to 2016, is a minimum wage increase of 10%, Mr. Bulj, not 2.5%. And on the other hand, I understand your position and your conversation, but I wonder who it was in 2016 whose government it was? Was it the SDP government or was it the HDZ and MOST government when the same incentives were paid to the one you told now to pay off? Who was the Minister of Agriculture then? Now you can't say that to you all, and after you no one. So the government fell but not because of it, but because of something else. And when we talk about what you're talking about are simple, you want to collect some cheap political points, when someone owes someone, on the one hand they're partners, on the one hand is a multinational company called Shayer, on the other hand it's the Croatian Employment Service, I know what you're alluding to, it's in court. The court will give its own words as well as any other business relations that HZZ has with other, other entities. Certainly neither I nor my family has any debts to HZZO or any institution in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm sorry you're trying to collect such points, but I understand your intensity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35483	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS representative Ana-Marie Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35484	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So when we talk about the minimum wage bill proposal, I have to point out at the beginning that HSS is certainly for a minimum wage increase because we don't feel that it can live with a decent living with 3276 kuna of gross monthly salary. So we're talking about 3276 thousand kuna gross salary, which is 2300 kuna net salary per month. This increase when we discussed tax reform at the end of last year we asked the government, warned of the government's decision to increase gross wages, and then we warned that the minimum wage was insufficient, that it is not enough to live even then and now we welcome the increase in wages even if it was for 156 kuna. When establishing a minimum wage proposal for 2017, the government respected the fact that the first three quarters of 2016 saw recovery of economic trends and that economic growth is expected to continue this year. And the result of these positive trends is a minimum wage increase of only 156 kuna and only 5%, respectively. Sad or true. Has the life of people on the minimal changed thanks to this increase? Of course not, they didn't even feel it. But thanks to tax reform, the lives of those whose income exceeds 20 thousand kuna per month changed because they got even more. They have money to put their assets in a savings bank, they have money to enjoy from the beginning to the end of the month but workers who work for minimum wage certainly do not and barely survive. We at HSS are not satisfied with the amount of the minimum wage so far and therefore support this proposal for a new minimum wage law aimed at ensuring that the minimum wage in two years reaches 50% of the average gross salary because that is exactly what we proposed at the end of last year. Although the government, or the labour minister, argues that there is no room to increase the minimum wage to 50%, we believe that space exists and that it must be found. Every day we boast about getting out of the crisis, but who felt that coming out? Certainly not nearly 100,000 or 70,000 workers in the Republic of Croatia who receive minimum wage or even lower than minimum because believe that there are cases that the minimum wage part of the workers must be raised from their account and returned to their employer. So there are those who work for even less than minimum wage. This increase we advocate will allow workers to be at least one account less due, or at least one day their account will not be in red or sometimes tell their child what candy they are buying but today unfortunately we have to say that some day they buy a cake or a sandwich for school because some don't have that either. Finally, the minimum wage should only be a policy tool in order to reduce poverty, i.e. to enable those who live there to live at least a relatively decent life. We agree with colleagues from the SDP that minimum wage should not be seen through the prism of economic consequences. The HSS advocates that the government assists citizens with the lowest wage. They're the ones who pick up every kuna in their wallet, they're the ones who spend their wages on what's basic to survival and they're the ones whose money goes back to the state through taxes. I'd like to tell everyone at the HSS that we don't care what happened before, because obviously today's debate has come down to who could have changed and not. In the next four years, don't let us re-emerge in this House and fight over who could and didn't raise minimum wage for Croatian workers. What is worrying is that young people do not see their future in Croatia. And they are certainly guilty and current but also former ministers. Young people who do not have a job are leaving Croatia and it is good to warn them every day from this pay phone. But also those who work for 2300 kuna also see their lives elsewhere and look to go unfortunately from Croatia. We agree that employers today are stifled with taxes and other charges, that problems must be sincerely seen and dealt with systematically. But we can't break things like that over employees' backs. We can't let employees and workers always be the last. It is necessary to relieve the entrepreneur, we agree, to relieve them of various unnecessary duties imposed only to finance any various state agencies that are again the purpose of themselves, and entrepreneurs, unfortunately, today have become just money collectors for the state, and all this is broken over the back of workers. Let the state help entrepreneurs as it promised but also those small and medium not only Agrokor. They do not want to help small and medium because they are taking care of how the increase in minimum wages will endanger their business. In the stores of Konzum, how many workers work for, how many cashiers do they work for? And the state has to save the concert again. I wonder who led them to the edge? The workers and their wages certainly don't. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Parliamentarians let this debate be important for us to do something for our workers, to raise minimum wage so that they can live with dignity from our work. For once, let's take sides of the workers, not the capital. We in the Croatian peasant party have defined whose side we are on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35485	Thank you for your discussion. We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first representative is Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35486	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Anna-Marie, you said all that nicely. I think it should have been long ago that this story has been done systematically since the beginning of the Croatian state. Some employers should have been controlled a long time ago. Don't let them get into this kind of trouble. We know, and you all know that almost 40 to 50 billion taxes have not been paid to this country. What happened to those people who didn't pay taxes? Usually the debt was forgiven, he forgave them. And what happened to honest entrepreneurs who worked, paid, supported this country and eventually an individual and closed their trades, their companies. I don't think this is a miracle. What is being debated today was long ago to discuss how a worker can have a better salary than someone in the administration. No, we've got bigger salaries for administrations than workers. It's sad. Everywhere in the world a worker who works outside, who works in factories and somewhere has a higher salary than that clerk who sits in an office in a warm room today under the air conditioning. But now we're pretending when we've led everything to ruin, it's usually said in other people's failures we learn, and in the state we seem to learn from our failures. Once we start working and seeing around us here and everywhere, what are we throwing at things that are unnecessary, instead of helping an honest businessman? I'm saying again, you have to pay taxes, you have to pay taxes. In every country in the world when you don't pay taxes, you're in trouble as a businessman. It's just not true with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35487	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35488	Thank you, fellow Muscle. We're practically thinking the same thing. What is important and what this law needs to pass, which is to increase and minimum wages and ensure the lives of our workers at least a small life worthy of man. Of course, we should take care of entrepreneurs as well. Many have not come to their own troubles, and I agree that we should help them too. But equally, all these things taxes, the fiscal taxes that all previous governments have imposed on entrepreneurs, must not be broken across the back of workers. Turns out the workers are the last ones on that list he cares about. Here, with this salary, we'll at least in one way help the workers at least a little bit to tell the living life of a decent man.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35489	Thank you. Next replica representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35490	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Petin, you have spoken of economic recovery in the last three quarters and an increase in wages by tax reform. Every normal advocates an increase in salary as well as a minimum. With us in Varazdin County, with relatively low unemployment, there were also extremely low average salaries and extremely low and minimum wages. Someone here said no one cares about employers to raise their salary. In my municipality of 3,000 700 inhabitants, we raised the number of jobs in the crisis in 2014 to 2016 by a thousand 300 people. It was a greenfield investment with relatively low wages, but we insisted on such jobs precisely because of this crisis. I've been asked by the press how do you propose to raise your salary? I was already telling reporters that the time would come for employers soon because of the need for quality workers, and in order to increase jobs they would have to raise salaries and this happened in the zone they had raised salaries in the last year twice 7% twice. Therefore, it is necessary to make assumptions for increasing jobs, which will be an overall reform proposed by the finance minister and aimed at increasing the overall labour price. So the main thesis in this case is the opening of new jobs and in this case there will be no need to speak at all about minimum wage, and a quality worker will pay a lot more than a minimum wage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35491	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35492	Thank you, dear colleague, for asking the question. So in tax reform, we debated very much here in the Croatian Parliament. My opinion is that we also talked about a pay phone for myself and a colleague from the Croatian Peasant Party that the changes that were going on, so the releases to entrepreneurs were just cosmetics. And speaking to entrepreneurs and businessmen here last week I spoke to the director of the company, I'm not going to tell which one has 60 employees. Did these changes bring you anything better in your business? Have you been relieved of your business? He just laughed at me and said don't talk nonsense. So these changes were cosmetical, but you're talking about your Varazdin County. I live in Virovitica-Podravska County and we can tell when to go west then the wages are higher, because it is known that in Slavonia the lowest wages are and that is why everyone from Slavonia is running away. For us, Slavonia is desolate not only because there is no work, but people no longer want to demean themselves and work for 2300 kuna, they just don't want to. Not that they don't want to work, but they can't survive with it. 2300 kunas a colleague has said so many maltene wars are for gas, and where there are other needs, and where children who often go to school hungry. And that's what's holding us back in Slavonia and that's what we're at least trying to raise this minimum wage up there, and of course we need to help create new jobs in another way. But I'm afraid with this tax reform that we adopted in 12 months that we're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35493	Thank you. Next replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35494	Respect for my dear colleague. Well, just as I often know the essence of Facebook, I see an example in the British square in Zagreb of a man playing guitar and, as in a violation of the law, he played without permission and immediately the police intervened. A man's being punished. However, when a man crushes business books so that he does not display billions of dues, then suddenly no institution works, no inspectorate, no State Audit, no Ministry of Finance, no Tax Administration, no DORH. And in this law, the paradox is precisely what HDZ people insist on asking the question of how it will be the boss if the minimum wage increases, instead of asking themselves a logical question about what it's like for workers who work for minimum wage. And if they care so much about how the bosses will be if the minimum wage increases I recommend that they create better conditions for these employers, better conditions for those who have workers so that they can pay them higher wages. So it's not a responsibility here, it's not a burden of crisis to beat up on the low-income, but the state has to start implementing normal politics. However, since HDZ obviously doesn't want it, then he decided to make a simple simple solution, so what people will do for a bun, he'll work for change, he'll work for nails and we'll be fine, the boss will be fine. And if either one of us gets a whiff about the justice system, then we'll protect our colleague. If any tycoon we've sold to the kuna factories fails, we'll make a new law for him. And they don't want anything for the poor girl. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35495	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35496	Thank you, dear colleague. So look, when we keep thinking about what's going to happen to the bosses and how they're going to feel, then we bring our society and especially our youngsters into one apathy that they simply don't have the will to learn or to enroll in a good school. Because they're commenting on what we're going to do, and so we have to get out of Croatia, and so we're going out there doing who knows what jobs, because I'm not staying here for 2300 kunas of net wages. It's like a boy to me, like a girl isn't enough, let alone tomorrow when I get married and get married or I have a family to feed my kids with that money. We are simply young and our children are disappointed in the whole system, losing their will and school, losing their will for some kind of education, and unfortunately they do not see themselves and their future here in Croatia. This is what is broader and far-reaching and the great consequences of this policy that is being implemented in Croatia I have to say for longer, longer years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35497	Thank you. And another replica, Agent Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35498	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, everything you've said well, I absolutely sign it, I support it because there's nothing else you can say but how well you said it. About all this fighting for the poor ours and for the better tomorrow. But I'd like to rephrase to you when you said you didn't care how this happened and why we're just discussing this today and how, who suggested this law. I once said in my replica that this might have been suggested by HSS or someone else, then I would have said all the honors, here's no responsibility. But this debate is like if I told you why Kresso Beljak didn't bring free kindergartens to Samobor? That's great, so our kids, so demographics, we'll find a hundred good reasons to introduce it. But he is a responsible man and responsible for his city. That's how we Parliamentarians here can't tell stories that are nice to hear. I know, there's a populist in our House, they tell stories and they get people. But I think that you, you're the representative of a serious party, of an old party that we have to have a responsibility, that we can't just talk about what people like to hear without having any responsibility. So I don't expect you to be the kind of guy that can be so populist, you don't act like one. So we have to be responsible for something we impose on others. Well, he said a little while ago, I'd have accepted that. Let's introduce these people here in the Parliament all who have as many as two and a half thousand, I suggest that all MPs be denied their wages and that this is given to these people, that's what we can and what it is human to do. But that we here without an agreement with the Croatian Employers' Association, with the union we will impose some like Misic, and such entrepreneurs to the honorable people who fight for each kuna and fight to pay some salary for us here bureaucratic and administratively imposing some obligations, especially when the proposal comes from people who have had four years of opportunity to do so and have not done so. That's what I'm paying you back to start now, like Whitey says, "free kindergarten."
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35499	Time. Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35500	Thank you, dear colleague. Well, look, when we talk about populistism, a lot of people here in Parliament have spoken populistly, but I certainly haven't today. I advocate an increase in the minimum wage of nearly 100,000 workers who unfortunately cannot survive with a salary of 2,300 kuna per month. So it's not populism, it's a simple struggle for workers who live on a minimum wage. I was also talking about our young people leaving Croatia, who look at this situation and come to the conclusion that they simply don't see their future here. As for the bill coming from the SDP and my comment that we simply forget what was before. I have to say that I am a parliamentary representative here in my first session and I simply after four years of my term I want to tell my children that we have left something behind for all this time I spend here in the Parliament and I am not with them. What I'm saying is that we've left and we've done something concrete, something that people will live better than, not just to put it that way, we've been beating up empty straw for hours and hours, and we just don't bring anything that allows people to live a better life. And that's why I said, let's all be smart, draw a line, forget what happened before, because as soon as the government changes in four years and then such a proposal for minimum wage comes from HDZ and then the SDP is in power and he doesn't want me to pass that law. How long will our workers be working for 2,300 kunas for money they can't live on? So I said let's forget the past and start from now on, bring something that will bring a better life to our citizens and our workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35501	Thank you for your replica. We're going to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35502	Dear Madam President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here is after all these clubs that have been ordered so far and who have been commending the need to raise minimum wages I will join in having to increase on behalf of the HDZ Club that it is safe to increase the minimum wage but not in the way this proposal for a minimum wage bill proposed by the Social Democratic Party. At first I will say a little answer to Mrsic, here on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club such as those who should defend this law are Mr Bernardić, Mrsic, Hajdas Doncic and Pedja Grbin. As far as I can see here is only Mr. Mrsic and of the total number of SDP representatives there are three of you if I am not mistaken at this time in the Croatian Parliament or four I apologize Mr. Vedligaj is here. So, and calling the government if it wasn't there, I don't know how correct that is, if you're really up for this bill, then the minimum would have been if you had at least followed this debate with a number of your representatives. But obviously, as you say yourself, you're enough, so I accept it as such, but don't blame others who don't need to be here, which is not there. Clearly, the Croatian Democratic Community as the leader of the coalition, which is in power along with the Mosto and minority deputies, cannot discuss this law in the same way and in such beautiful words as the previous clubs of MPs have done because they have no responsibility. It is our responsibility to manage the state and, as Minister Coric said on behalf of the government, the government cannot accept this law, not because all together would not want to accept it in a way that the minimum wage is increased to 50% of the average gross salary. It's simply because I'm assessing myself in the government and stressing the government, it means to the HDZ and Most coalition government that there's no condition for going to such a minimum wage increase. I also remind you that one of the government's first decisions with Mr. Plenkovic was just an increase in the minimum wage of 156 kuna to today's 3.276 kuna gross. Let me just remind you that the SDP government when it could, so from 2012 to 2015 has increased the minimum wage by only 215 kuna in 4 years. So, you had space, and you often referred to Slovenia in 2010 as raising the minimum wage to 50%. I'm asking you out here now, so why didn't you do it as your first move in 2012 when you came to power? You didn't do it, and now here only four months after this government works and works, you send it, or you send it to the procedure back to the 12th month, this law that we would raise a minimum wage in 2018 to 50% of the average gross salary. I say, I repeat once again on behalf of HDZ, we would be very happy if it could really be. If something else hadn't happened. I'm afraid by increasing the minimum wage, we're not the ones who are comfortable with the owners, that's what we're talking about. what some call tycoons employers. But we need to take a responsible look at the competitiveness of all companies and the potential loss of jobs. Because there's a real possibility of losing a part of the job. So not that we have 76,000 of those who receive minimum wage, but that suddenly we have a certain number of unemployed because certain employers will simply not be able to pay minimum wages in that amount by such administrative setting up minimum wages and there is a possibility of losing jobs. So the government is responsible for finding a certain balance, a certain balance between the level of minimum wage and what individual branches of industry can bear as minimum wage. I welcome your initiative, and I'm sure we'd all like to raise that minimum wage. And I expect that the government of the Croatian Democratic Community and Mosto will find opportunities in 2017 to increase the minimum wage again as early as 1.1.2018, so maybe it comes close to that 50%. I sincerely hope so. To tell you the truth, you yourself said that in this proposal for the 2017 law, you predicted that it would be 45%, and by increasing from 156 kuna we came to 42.9%. So that difference remained about 2.1% compared to what you asked and predicted, wanted for this year. And I don't think that's such a big difference and there's so many words being spent here on it, and I repeat, you could have done it for four years. For four years, you have managed the state at a time when the entire economy of the European Union came out of recession. You were talking about the crisis yourself. Yes, the crisis was at the time when HDZ's government was an economic crisis and the recession affected the whole world. But we know it was since the end of 2008, during 2009. In 2011, an easy exit from the crisis began. I remind you that the HDZ government, which was also at that time at the end of its term of office, had a positive GDP growth in the last two quarters. That's when you came to power, the GDP turned upside down. You haven't been able to find a way out of the crisis for three years. And let me just say, here's from 2013 to 14, you've increased the minimum wage by 33 kuna. From 2014 to 2015 for 12 kuna. Only on departure when you were already a technical government like someone said, then you made a decision to raise the minimum wage by 91 kuna. I'm just saying this for a reason that those who follow these controversies know the exact numbers. Because there were different percentages here. Everyone interprets it the way it suits them. But these are the data that was downloaded from the State Statistics Office and are easily verifiable. Repeat. The Croatian Democratic Community will not support the proposal for a minimum wage bill proposed by the SDP. But surely through our government we will find a way to mean that after 156 kuna we have increased the minimum wage for this year, to find ways and that I hope with positive trends in the economy and in this year, the minimum wage increases next year. Whether to make it to 50% of the average gross salary will we see. And also, our government has announced the creation of a new law. So either through this existing law of 2013 which, by the way, wakes up has a very complicated formula for calculating minimum wage, and you have it... Well, that was 2013, yeah. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, then you were very imaginative about inventing this formula, but you don't use it any more as you say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Opačić: Do not leave the site please.]] It's much simpler to watch percentages of the average salary. Or might the government find some other way to raise that minimum wage? And I believe that's what's gonna happen. But first of all, not first of all to preserve as many jobs as possible and to increase employment. There's been a lot of talk here about leaving young people out of the country. The departure of young people from the country is not so much about the minimum wage, and that's where we'll agree, you said, but it's simply about people leaving for bigger profits in countries that can afford it. Unfortunately, this is not only Croatia's specificity. This is the specificity of all poorer countries in the European Union. Today, the easiest thing to do is to call out to a clearly current government that it's her fault. But that trend didn't start now. It started a long time ago, during your government. But I hope we can all stop it together. One way to stop it is to make sure that you pay better work, what my colleague Križanić was talking about. And I think we can read on the portals today that one entrepreneur in Međimurje is looking for welders and wants to pay them 8 thousand kuna with other benefits such as 13th salary, Christmas Day, Easter and some other benefits and finds it hard to find enough workers. I hope that other entrepreneurs will follow this example and that simply by unadministrative determination of minimum wage, rather than simply that the need for work will lead to the increase in wages in Croatia and that it will then deter young people from leaving Croatia because they will be able to earn a normal life here for themselves and their families. Here's so much to explain why we won't support this minimum wage bill. Although I personally and also the HDZ Club expect the minimum wage to increase in the following year as much as the Croatian Government decides, and certainly it will look to do everything for the benefit of the workers in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35503	Thank you for your presentation. As my colleague Petin would say, since this debate, unfortunately, workers will not benefit much. I think there are very few people in this hall who have not now applied to the replica. So we have ten replicas on your exposure. First replica representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35504	Dear Representative Felak, as you are not ashamed to say what you said now that leaving Croatia is the consequence of the situation, just remember what HDZ and HDZ representatives were saying in four years of the SDP government when we said the same thing when you said other things. A brief mind, i.e. now there are other times, and for your governments, 75,000 people from Croatia went away, so that's it now, here's all the same, let's not get mad, but then we said this, this way. But to refer to the law itself. Obviously you haven't read it, this valid formula was the first to come up with a minimum wage above the poverty threshold in Croatia. Because the law that was before was a law that blocked and frozen minimum wage. It is obvious that HDZ law refuses only because it has no position to make with that minimum wage. And that's the basic problem. I haven't heard from HDZ here a word of your attitude about minimum wage. Because there's no question here whether she's enough or not? Here's the question of protecting the worker from poverty. To protect the worker from being exploited by the employer. So he doesn't get over-the-counter, night shifts and everything. But obviously you don't understand it, or obviously it's not your goal. Your goal is to keep the status quo, so that nothing changes because it obviously suits you. Because in all the discussions we're just talking about who raised more, who raised less. Well, gentlemen and gentlemen, it's not the key to this law. The key to this law is to protect workers from going under poverty and not being exploited by employers. It's the key, you finally understand it, and you give the stand is for it or you're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35505	I'm asking you nicely, since so many of you are applying for replicas I won't tolerate crossing over time anymore. You all have up on the display of your time and please use your two minutes in that therefore, in those frames. Mr. Felak, here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35506	Thank you, Mr. Gristle, just a brief answer to your replica if we didn't care about the minimum wage, then our government wouldn't raise the salary for 156 kuna. So it's 2017 already. As for these payments to black and all of that, you yourself said that you put the inspections under the Ministry that you were in charge of. So what did you do for four years, why didn't those inspections determine who was paying off on black and why they didn't sanction such entrepreneurs? And now you're saying it would be very bad if the inspections came back under the State Inspectorate. I don't think it would be bad. I think the State Inspectorate worked much better, because that's where the inspections were independent, and when they're under one minister, they're dependent on that minister. Then He determines whom the inspections will trample, and whom they will not trample. And if you had done your job for four years as a minister, then this black work in Croatia today would have been much less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35507	Thank you. Next replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35508	Thank you, Chairman. Well, we've been listening for ten minutes to explain to Mr. Felak why the minimum wage won't grow now, or why HDZ will refuse. However, the key reason HDZ will not accept it is the following, and he did not say it. A missing monetary policy that has been under way for over 20 years. The fact that the central bank is a currency exchanger, that we're as a company dependent on loans as an addict on opiates. And consequently, we live on a debt in debt that we can't get out of and at the same time in a state of persevering kuna deity that is in this currency monetary regime is actually our constant from which there's no way out. In time, the debts of the state will be growing, more and more companies will fail, the debts of course can't return that I repeat as a parrot even though everyone laughs at me, but in the end you will also realize that you can assure everyone that this system is sustainable that it is not sustainable. However, in order to understand that first you will have to destroy yourself and you will have to end up on a minimum salary yourself because Mr. Felak that you have minimum wage for your work in the Assembly you would vote to raise minimum wages. But your salary is at least 14, 15 thousand kuna, not less than that. And then you look from that position, huh, someone's 2,300 or I don't know 2,500 is enough for him, enough for him. And that, try to live with three times the minimum wage. I guarantee you they couldn't live, but you're giving advice like that, that's the way it is, and it doesn't need to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35509	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35510	Dear Mr. Pernar, as far as I know, my salary is somewhere just like yours. Maybe my few hundred kunas are bigger because of something bigger than I've got. Therefore, you are not exactly in a position to teach me lessons or any other parliamentary representative whether it is too much of his salary or whether you should work for minimum wage. But believe me, I understand very well, and I know how hard it is to live with people who work for minimum wage, and I wish that salary could be increased, and if there were real circumstances that this salary could be increased. I repeat, something has increased since 2017, and I expect that this increase will be even bigger in 2018. And I also expect that if you have the courage for such solidarity as someone has said, as Mr Sanader has suggested, there are ways that we, as Parliamentarians, will give up part of our salary and that, if we give it to employees in the Parliament or someone else, we would thus show a certain portion of solidarity. But this would not solve the problem of small salaries in Croatia, nor those of the people who work on the minimal. The only solution is the growth of the economy and greater demand for employees and that employers themselves recognise that their employees need to pay much better, and for that truth, as Mrs. Petin told them in the Parliament, we must create the best legal conditions. And I invite you to conduct your discussions in this direction to prepare as high-quality laws as possible so that we can discuss them here, possibly in this way help both workers and employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35511	Thank you. Next replica representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35512	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You have rightly noticed and transferred to Mrsic, when he mentioned on several occasions that there is no one on the part of the government representative, when you yourself counted how many representatives are here today in the assembly, which, in some ways, points to the interest of the proposing representatives, and in this case, the SDP Club on the topic discussed here today. You were repeatedly asked the question of what the position of the Croatian Democratic Community Club was, so you brought it out on several occasions. The view is that one of the first measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia following the appointment of a minimum wage increase in the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Mrsic interrupts me. It is true that the decision should have been made, only it could have increased 2 kunas, 5 kunas or could have remained the same, or could have been increased even more. At this point, the government estimated that it should be increased by 156 kuna, as you yourself said, and I am convinced that, based on the growth of gross domestic product in this year, on the basis of high-quality macroeconomic indicators in the first place and the reduction of government budget deficits and all other indicators that speak about the state of the economy in the Republic of Croatia will again be paid by 2018 at the end of this year. This is the best answer to all those who speak about how and how the Croatian Democratic Community or Government is, better said, the Government is concerned about the position of those most endangered categories of population in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35513	Thank you. Do you have an answer or should we move on? You got it. Then he's a representative of Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35514	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Felak, you are now saying that your party is the leader of the coalition. I have to admit, I don't know what coalition it is. So if you can explain to me whether the coalition includes Mrs. Esich? She's naively supposed to go, she says she's Tudjman's HDZ. Well, you have your candidate, so I don't understand now if you can teach me who the real Tudjman HDZ is. I'm also interested in Oak. The president of Hrasta Ilcic in Varazdin says that you do not stick to Christian values, that I cannot coalition with you, that you are only on the paper of democracies. I see the SDPs and HDZ go to Sibenik together in the coalition. The mayoral candidate is from the SDP, the mayor of HDZ. So is it possible that the coalition you've just mentioned and the SDPs are so ugly that some of the last governments have been doing this? Here, if you can explain? I don't get your statement, so there you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35515	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35516	Well, Mr. Bunjac, first of all, I didn't mention Mrs. Esich or any of these people you listed here. But since you are relatively new to politics and as a party, and as a representative in the Parliament, and as far as I know, you are now a candidate for mayor in Međimurje County, you will realize that local policy needs to be clearly separated from politics at national level and there are many reasons why some things happen. Surely for these local elections, there are some combinations. Perhaps in one of these combinations, a living wall that everyone today would wonder how it is possible. So don't be too surprised by some political combinations for these local elections either. And with whom HDZ will eventually co-ordinate or co-operate, with whom it will not, it will be decided by the relevant parties' bodies. I'm not the one who can answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35517	Thank you. Next replica representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35518	Thank you very much. Comrade Felak, you have asked yourself why they did not do so in the term of Mrsic, so when he was Minister of Labour and it is a legitimate question and he has been avoiding answering that question all day. And we already answered when they did. So they were created in the mandate of the Technical Government on 30.12.2015. The Parliament was established on 22.12.2015, if I recall. So there was a majority already. They made it so cowardly because it didn't cost anything. They probably could've done it without it? And counterpart Mrsic said it would be more correct if it were left to the next government. But they did it to tell us today stories about how socially sensitive they were. And how were they socially sensitive? So let's remember the story of autsoring and trying to get all those public services spoken of today and a colleague on the left-hand side of the extradition means private sector. And then what? Who rebelled? Public service unions rebelled. They held a referendum and, of course, nothing happened. That was a concern. Not to mention everything you may not have mentioned. Electricity is 20%. Gas 25%. Water 15%. Cestarins 15%. All those gatherings that had just taken away a lot of money from poor people's budgets, that was their social sensitivity. Of course, in the opposition today they are much more socially sensitive than in power. But we want to work responsibly, and we keep saying that all the time. And as soon as two months later, the government had the strength to make the move in collaboration with both employers and trade unions to avoid any disturbances in certain industries. We'll keep doing that. The government regulation can achieve what this law may provide at some point when it estimates that it can indeed happen. But it's a responsibility, and this is a hypocrisy to me. and escape from your own responsibility. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35519	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35520	Dear colleague Boric, I would agree most of all with you. Obviously, the Social Democratic Party needs to move into opposition to realize that they are the Social Democratic Party and that they should primarily take care of the interests of workers. Because the way they ruled in four years, it was clear to anyone who looked on the side of it that they were first and foremost good at large capital and that the interests of the workers were in the back. Now that they are no longer in that position to rule and do not have those responsibilities, it is now easy to stand up for workers' rights and clearly try to win political points in a cheap way. Finally, he mentioned Mr Bunjac and I mention, local elections are ahead of us and it is clear that the debate on this Minimum Payment Act is primarily for the purpose of obtaining as many political points as possible for those people who clearly tank this law. It should be consistent and be a Social Democrats all the time and when you are in power and when you are in opposition, then you could go to the voters with a clean cheek and probably get different election results than you did in the last parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35521	Thank you. Next line, Marco Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35522	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague, Felak, I also didn't realize exactly what HDZ's position was on this bill, on the proposal for a minimum wage law. And you said actually somewhere in the future you should think about it, and then you call us populists, you call us hypocrites. I actually remained fragrant about what populism and hypocrisy is when we ask that minimum wage come to 50% of the average salary. Look, I come from a place where a lot of people work for that minimum wage, from a place that produces, which exports, which may have caused it to be partly competitive in the past. Today, when the economic situation has improved, when we can lead competitiveness policy through other things, through subsidies of the most course of the state, given that local and regional self-government at least in our northern regions does not have enough resources to carry out subsidies. Why not allow workers to benefit from it? Why don't we actually give them 100 kunas more? Because these people are very hard to live for, every kuna is important to them, and it's really up to them to stay alive. Now I'm re-referenced in our smaller environments again. It's the essence of this bill's proposal, not getting out of it, that we're actually going to run one competition policy through keeping our wages low. Let's say that those who have the least that also have some benefit from that economic growth, and not the way you started with tax reform, and you know well that tax reform has increased the wages to those who have the most and including us here, and unfortunately they have minimally increased those who have minimum wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35523	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35524	Dear colleague, I have made it very clear that the HDZ Club's position, which means right away in the first sentence that we do not support such a proposal for minimum wage as SDP has made. But I also said right at the beginning that precisely the government headed by HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic was one of the first moves she made was to raise the minimum wage by 156 kuna compared to the one it was during 2016. So that salary was raised this year. And as my colleague Bačić said, I am now not repeating myself by looking at macroeconomic indicators and everything else in 2017 where we expect that they will continue to grow and that it will be even better, that there will be a prerequisite for the increase of the minimum wage in 2018, so there may be even this 50% that you are proposing in this bill. Therefore, the attitude here is very clear. The Croatian Democratic Community, unlike you, is a party that manages the state together with coalition partners and has responsibility and obligations, means not only to workers and trade unions, but also to employers. Once again, it is necessary to balance the needs of both of us so as not to accidentally lose and close jobs for too high a minimum wage, for someone too high, unfortunately. Those who won't be able to pay for it. And I repeat again, if there are any payments beyond what is prescribed for these are inspections and such things should be severely punished and brought into order, means paying in this country. And I think there will be very soon conditions for this minimum wage to be where and where it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35525	Thank you. Next replica representative Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35526	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleague Felak. Responsibility is the key word in this, you've done well in apostrophe. I'll just say responsibility and I'll tell the Croatian Parliament. By including this point in the procedure, and I will remind you that in the seventh assembly of the Parliament, no point that has come from the side of the opposition has been put into debate here in this assembly, none. And now, at a time of pre-election, a month and a half, two to the Parliament election, the Parliament's Presidency puts this item into debate. And it is part of the responsibility towards Croatian citizens, not to speak responsibility for us who have been acting in some way at local level. I'm asking my colleagues, a few of them here, Mr. Vesligaj or someone else who's been acting on a local duty, whether in this segment at his level today, he's freeing, say, kindergarten payments or making some kind of promise or I don't know what, what he knows when he stays in power, he won't be able to make it, he wouldn't do it for sure. So the key word is responsibility. One more thing is that here, on several occasions, there is mentioned a gray area of work or a black area of work, even some examples are listed by some colleagues, and colleagues do not know that their responsibility is also their responsibility, including every citizen, especially a parliamentary representative, to report these irregularities to inspections, to the State's Attorney's Office or to anyone. So the responsibility is important and the most important word is in all of this responsibility. It's easy for someone who knows he's not in power right now or there won't be anyone who knows until when in power, to promise and say anything. But it should be responsible for both the means and the people and the citizens in which they live and act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35527	Let's move on with the replicas, Agent Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35528	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, you said we would not please any entrepreneurs. I think it's clear here that we need to take care of entrepreneurs, responsible entrepreneurs. Clearly, it does not refer to those spoken of in a negative sense, which is clear to both tycoons and thieves and those criminals who have acquired wealth, who cannot justify their incomes. Surely, they must be cared for by the inspection, the police and all those who protect the system, and we are responsible for the serious entrepreneurs. Therefore, the minimum wage conversation must also talk to the Croatian Employers' Association, normally and with trade unions, and see what are the best options currently given the standard, the economic situation where the minimum wage can be paid by entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35529	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35530	Dear colleague Sanader, thank you for filling me in. Just what I have pointed out many times means the government's responsibility is to find some balance between demands and unions or workers, as well as the opportunities of the employers themselves. And since you mentioned employers, I can say that I am deeply disturbed by the generalization of individual and MPs here in the Croatian Parliament, parts of the media, all employers as something negative in this society. It's just really bad and it creates a very bad climate. There are always a few negative examples, and here I am not going to talk about the biggest problems that are now in trouble, and there are not a huge number, hundreds and thousands of small, medium, large employers who meet their obligations to both the state and the workers and who are essentially the generator of all the good in the Croatian economy because if they were not there, the economy would have long been collapsed in what Mr. Pernar calls out, but I am convinced that this will not happen in Croatia. But this is exactly how we behave when we only point out the negatives, as if we want it to happen. Well, there should be a lot more emphasis on those who are good and who are doing good. When someone is talking about Agrokor about Todorovic then forgets 30,000 employees in the company and that care should also be taken care of both those employees and those small, medium, large suppliers to whom Agrokor is owed. And the least of it is the owner, or who will be the next owner of Agrokor. Therefore, we must take first of all care of that part, and if there are those who do not do their job properly and who do not manage their businesses properly, you will or will fail because of your ignorance if they have done any unfair acts, then they must be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35531	Thank you. The next replica is representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35532	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A week ago in this House, a wise man told me, when there were no arguments then he went into attack, this wise man named Damir Felak. And then today, you, a colleague, set out to attack all attacks, with no argument at all. So speaking of which we haven't done in four years of our term, that should now be an argument for you not to do anything. So do you. Here's what we've proposed. You adopt it. You're saying that HDZ is for this bill, that to increase the minimum wage but not in this way. So make an amendment, make a suggestion. Fix the law, but accept this. Second thing, you said a whole series of incorrect data. When we talk about working on black precisely at the time of the SDP's former mandate, Prime Minister Milanovic's work on black was reduced by 50% in Croatia. We introduced the order, we introduced the fiscalization, we fixed the mess you left us after eight years, that's one thing. Secondly, you said GDP started to grow in 2011. Yeah, according to that data you faked that we found two years behind that. And it's clear to me that you fellow Felak don't feel the crisis, you didn't feel it. You still live in Koprivnica there is SDP in power, where the SDP is in power there is no crisis, so it is clear to me that you live well and that you have not seen the rest of Croatia. Here you are now at the state level so you can see little and how live people in the middle of where HDZ is in power, and living badly, don't live well. The second thing, now that you've spoken the last thing in this replica just before about Agrodor and that you should take care of the people who work there, that's what we do with this law. We take care of people who work in Agrokor because most people there work for minimum wage. So support this law and help over 40,000 people who are employed in Agrokor, support us. If you are not satisfied, make a suggestion, fix this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35533	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35534	You obviously didn't listen to me, we already did, we raised the salary for this year by 156 kuna and we came close to the 45% you suggested for 2017. What we will do at the end of this year, our Government for 2018, we will see. Then we'll be able to talk about whether or not we respected what you're looking for. But we don't want to limit ourselves to this law, in the end what Minister Coric was saying, which are the reasons why the government doesn't accept this law, I could do the same to you now, but I don't think I have enough time in this replica. You say yourself I come from Koprivnica and believe me, I felt very well on my back what it means to be a HDZ male in an SDP fort. But I won't explain it here. There's no need for that. Just to tell you by the statistics that have recently come out in the media, 4 cities with the lowest salaries in Croatia are Čakovec, Dugo Selo, Sisak and Križevci from Koprivnica-Kristevci County. In Čakovec, how much I know about HNS authorities in co-operation with SDP, Sisak SDP, Dugi Sel HDZ, and in Križevci is the coalition of the former HSS and HDZ. It means that the height of the salary is not exclusively linked to which party is in power but obviously depends on some other indicators. Let's just say I was surprised that Chakovec was in that position, but here it's already said that there are small salaries, but a lot of people are employed, there's little unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35535	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation by Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35536	Thank you very much. Well, you, in your presentation, explained in detail why the government can't accept this law. We've heard here several times today that this law is good, that it should be accepted by several MPs. However, I must mention one detail when we discussed this law on the Committee on Labour and Pensions, that it is not complete and that it is not well written and best done. This was even agreed by a proposing representative, a colleague, Bernardic. So there's room for this law to be made better and better quality. And as you said, I believe that when this law is changed, the government will really make a quality regulation and here's what you said about 2018 if the indicators are good that we might get to these 50% that the SDP is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35537	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35538	Well, just a brief answer, you said exactly, I forgot to mention that the two committees that discussed this law also did not accept it by majority of their votes. And they pointed out exactly that there are opportunities to improve this law. The government also said that a new minimum wage law is under way, and I hope that the minimum wage will be better defined and resolved. And I also hope that this law will lead to a raise in minimum wages clearly respecting all the factors I've talked about so far. And here at the end of this, you said this was the last line, right, at the end of this line I thank everyone who's replicated me and I'm glad I've caused so much attention to my colleagues in the assembly by my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35539	That out of the 20 present 10 they participated in the debate. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] At least we met somewhere. On behalf of the promoter, MP Miranda Mrsic asked for the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35540	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, the Internet is a hell of a thing. Remember for a long time even more than we do. I'll read the HDZ gentlemen carefully. It's hard to understand what you wanted to do with this law, you've abolished economic criteria and you're introducing an administrative decision to determine the amount of minimum wage. You're going to put the account to the economy and you're going to end the workers again in the end because when you break the economic criteria and you introduce a government dictatorship, you're directly jeopardizing jobs. The HDZ Club will not support this law. The Djuro Poppie at the hearing about the Minimum Salary Act. So what today is, you won't support this law is your continuity, you just don't want to support this type of law because it doesn't work out for you. And I can't look back on Mr. Sanader and Mr. Felak to say that it's a shame what you said you'd give to our waiters, waitresses, cooks from our charity pay. Workers don't deserve charity, workers want to have their own minimum wage, workers want to be paid well for what they do, workers don't want HDZ gentlemen not to want your charity. And what you said and what you said many times is charity. Neither the workers here in the Parliament, nor probably yours in HDZ, are likely to have higher salaries than minimum wages deserve charity. They deserve a good, good law. And Mr. Felak, yes, it is true, we have not passed any of your laws that you have proposed from 2011 to 2015, none. And do you know why? There weren't any. Gentlemen, in those four years of HDZ, you have not proposed a single law. At least we dared propose this law, we will propose some other laws because we understand our role as Parliamentarians. So why are you telling lies? And again, I'm going back to the point of the law that you simply don't want to understand, which is that it's the law that protects workers from poverty, and that's why Mr. Felak is the weird formula that's in agreement with the experts in the law because we wanted to get to the minimum wage that's above the poverty line. And why was minimum wage delivered at the end of 2015? So because the law forces us, the law that is in force. We have sworn here that we will respect the Constitution and the laws, and Article 4 of the applicable law says the minimum wage is determined once a year for the next calendar year. So when do we determine the minimum wage in January for 2016? It was the deadline when we could adopt, and it wasn't our fault that you couldn't agree with HDZ. And what I'm glad is that although the ruling won't support this law, it's a continuity since 2013. I can still count who else there was an epithet about this law. You didn't, so if you were continuity, then this law would be lifted immediately when you came to power. Naturally, you have not abolished it but continued to implement it because it is a good law, but on the other hand, I am pleased and personally satisfied that our initiative has fallen to fertile soil. Here you are swearing to grow minimum wage in 2018. And so the SDP objective has been achieved. And after this debate of yours today in Parliament, you were heard by Croatia, Croatian citizens, and it is obvious that the refusal of this law is only your maneuver that you do not want to accept the law of the opposition. But let's say you're with the same observation that the law is unarranged. They passed the MOST law on archives. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Smart enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35541	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. The first replica of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35542	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I understand why HDZ will not support this bill, and I understand that after today's debate, and especially after these statements by Mr Sanader and Mr Felak, what you said, which is that MPs should give their salary an addition to the employees of the Parliament who work in the Parliament for minimum wage. These statements showed fundamental ignorance of what the word "pays" means because these people don't need charity first, as you said. These people earn their salary fairly and need adequate money for their work and must be paid honestly. And to us, our task is not to give someone help, but to pass laws that will enable these people to be paid for their work. That's what we can do here. And I invite you gentlemen from HDZ to support this law in the long term and to give it to the people who work in this building for minimum wage more money, to be paid honestly for what they do, and they don't need any charity, no help. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35543	Thank you. Next replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35544	Thank you. I have to say that I've been listening to arguments both from HDZ and SDP and something that, let's say in what way I understand. I realized in a way that during the time of the SDP there was a crisis, so no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, However, HDZ authorities say that we have come out of the crisis, that we have economic growth, that loans are repayable, that government debt is being reduced, that various measures are being implemented to raise competitiveness. Basically, it's all going in the best direction. And I can understand SDP's when they say there was a crisis, it was bad, it couldn't. But here's the HDZ gentlemen if what you're saying is true, and I don't see any rational reason why the minimum wage wouldn't be raised. However, there is another thought that is a little bit more sensitive, which is that all you HDZ gentlemen are saying is a lie, that we haven't come out of the recession, that the crisis is still going on, that the economy is falling apart, that the number of blockeds is growing, that the indifference of citizens means their unsettled obligations are growing, that large economic operators are collapsing like card towers and that the government debt is growing vertically up. So I'd like to ask the gentlemen of the HDZ to let us know if we're growing or falling. If we grow up, support this proposal that Mr. Miranda has explained. I don't think there's any reason to resist a positive solution for people who work for a minimumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35545	Thank you. The next replica of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35546	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Mrsic, you're a doctor of medicine, I know that, but if you were this kind of doctor of manipulation, twisting thesis, I didn't know that. But, well, everything in life is getting to know each other. I wasn't talking about any charity. I know, maybe that's what drove you into a panic and you reacted, too, Mr. Dujic. It's obviously a panic because you're afraid of cutting our salary. I just made a redistribution, because I think these people really deserve more and it's not fair systematicization in this building. And they deserve us to have less pay, and they deserve more. We're fighting for workers' rights. And those honest people who do their job tirelessly, honest and quality. So what are we afraid of? Let's bring in such a, let's run such a proposal to change the systemization that's in this building and let people get a higher salary, not any of our charity, because charity is not spoken of. I'm sure if you listen to the public, they'll say we have a small salary. What does the public say about our salaries? So let's listen to the public. Let's be here, a lot of people swear on people, citizens' opinions. Well, citizens think our salary is big. So you as Social Democrats start such an initiative to give it away, to honestly say our salary is big and it needs to be cut down, and let's give you what you think and say fair enough that their pay is low. It will be the first indication that we are serious and that we want an honest relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35547	Thank you. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure before the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35548	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Rules of Procedure in Article 238, namely Mr Sanader, did not stick to the subject. The theme here today is the Minimum Salary Act, not tax reform, because it talked about reducing the salaries of parliamentary deputies. The HDZ has just raised its salaries to the MPs, and so has Mr Sanader, who is behind it, and by rejecting the SDP's amendments that would reduce those wages. So, he's totally cool about it, and I'd like to ask him to stick to the subject because it's not on the agenda at all today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35549	So I've been watching and listening to everything you've said in the replica and your discussions has been very much debate and replicas that haven't had anything to do with this subject, so the minimum wage. There was a lot of stuff here. I think... the principle of parliamentaryism, which is that people can talk about some topics, so I ask you to continue to be mutually collegiate and let them speak until they cross the border of good taste and until they spread tolerance or anything else. I don't know if you have anything else to add now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35550	Well, I do. I think Mr. Djujic hurt Rule 238 because he said I wasn't answering the line. I first responded to the replica because Mr. Mrsic was talking about charity and I just responded to the charity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35551	Thank you very much. Let’s focus really on what the subject is because if we want to help the workers, if we are all honest with each other, then we will deal with what are their real problems. My colleague Mrssic, you have a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35552	I've never manipulated any statements, so I won't be able to until now. Perhaps you are also now sorry that this has come out of your hands because you obviously do not understand the worker, so you insult the dignity of the workers. The worker wants to be paid for his work with dignity, not that we're giving him charity to repair his material condition. And that's something that's not appropriate here in the House and you can apologize to both you and Mr. Felak if you didn't think so, but that's what it looks like. So I'm not manipulating it, but if people work and don't have enough to live for, and then we make a deal, and we're gonna do a humanitarian action, and then we're gonna donate someone else to fix his condition that month, that's not it. The worker deserves his minimum wage, which is worthy of a life above poverty. And when you talk about redistribution of salaries, then I remind you again of the statement by your prime minister, Mr Plenkovic, who said when we said we needed to cut the salaries of parliamentary officials, and also government officials said it was populism. Now I don't understand is you in the same party or you might not be in the same party. So stick to what your prime minister says publicly to everyone. But I certainly didn't manipulate it, it's just that when you put it like that. People need to have a decent minimum wage, so no one needs charity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35553	Thank you. Next replica representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35554	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think it's the correct thing for you to accuse us now that we don't want these workers in the Parliament to raise the salary. When you were a minister you had great opportunities, I know it was a crisis and everything but it was probably an opportunity to be something a little better than it was. And as for the adoption of the law, that we didn't give any laws that you could ever accept, you remember very well that there were very good amendments in the form of amendments and you didn't want to look at them. So we believe that in 2018 the minimum wage will certainly be increased as I said earlier in the rap, perhaps even higher than you suggested in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35555	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35556	Dear Representative Lukačić, the fact is that you have not proposed any laws, so you have not given any legal initiative. As you now speak of amendments, you have not accepted any of our amendments or budgets, so just out of the desire to show that this is what you've done is not perfect. And when we talk about minimum wage, let's read the law now. So, of course, it will be bigger because it cannot be smaller because in the law that we passed in 2013 where your Mr. Poppie claimed it was a disaster and would destroy the Croatian economy, it is very clear that the minimum wage cannot be less than the previous year and it is a very large anchor that makes it impossible for the government or employers to manipulate the minimum wage. And then when you bring it into a relationship that it needs to be increased to a 50% level, it creates a single protection mechanism for citizens who are on a minimum salary not to go below the poverty line. And when you tie it to the salary, I remind you again that you need to watch the salary that pays the biggest and the lowest, when you tie it from 50% to the average salary paid, that trunk will always be the same and will not spread as it is now, because then the salary increase in Croatia will automatically raise and the minimum wage. This is how the minimum wage remains fixed for the bottom, and Croatia's wages are growing, which is not fair to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are now on minimum wage. But again, in four years, you haven't made a single legislative proposal that, by ruling, would then be rejected or accepted, so you can't try and say that's why you wouldn't accept it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35557	Thank you very much. And the last replica of your presentation by Representative Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35558	He's a colleague of Mrsic's. Well, I decided on the replica because you applied inappropriate words to me and called me and my colleague Sanader that we should be ashamed of something especially about what we talked about raising employees' salaries in this House. I just mentioned something that one MP had already said to me in one replica to me. And I just said that I agree with that and that if we need to find the modeality to help these people too, if we need to get out of our salaries. But it's not what matters most. It's what I'd like to replicate to you. You killed yourself. You're proposing a new law and you've managed to say that the 2013 law is a good law. Well, then I don't know why you're proposing a new law now if that law is good and if by that law this government has raised its salary for 156 kunas, you say yourself you can't go under it but can only go on for more. And I believe you'll go on more. And if it is passed, if a new law is passed, I believe that it can only improve it but not in this way that you suggested it. And that's why HDZ doesn't accept this proposal for a minimum wage bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35559	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35560	Mr. Felak, you've made it clear what you've said and it's a shame that you've said it and I'm going to say it over and over again because it's something that's inappropriate for parliamentarians. The worker has the right to minimum wage, she has to be worthy of him, he doesn't, so she doesn't deserve charity. And to insult the dignity of all those who work for a minimum wage, there are also in Koprivnica, there are also in Čakovec and everywhere else. And apparently you didn't listen to what I was saying when I explained the law because I made it very clear that the applicable minimum wage law indicates a certain rigidity in achieving the 50% share of minimum and gross wages in average gross salary. So we passed the law, we paid how to implement it, the law says very clearly, if you read the existing law where exactly... I listened to you very carefully, so where exactly and clearly it says that the aim of the law is to get to 50%. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And here I made it very clear that the current law as set will not lead to that goal and that it should be changed. But it's not about that law. We've been spinning around all the time about what the minimum wage will be or not. The aim of this law is to protect workers from exploitation. Because you forgot that in Article 2, in paragraph 3, if you read the bill, it reads: “The minimum wage does not include an increase in wages for the difficult working conditions, overtime and night work and work on Sundays, the holidays and some other day on which the law is determined not to work.” This is what employers put into minimum wage and workers instead of getting more money, they get de facto less. And that's the purpose of this bill, to arrange a minimum wage system. It is not just the goal of making it bigger but to be arranged and that workers benefit from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35561	Thank you. A colleague of the goddess, Makar, was quite waiting for the time to come on behalf of the HNS and HSU Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35562	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. This topic is so important that it pays to wait for it regardless of when this topic comes to the agenda logically and healthy to think becomes emotional and often politically biased so that basic and essential principles related to this topic are ignored. Why did I say that? I said for a simple reason because the predecessor of mine who spoke on behalf of his club actually spoke compassionately about all those workers who receive minimum wage how hard they live because with 2600 kunas of income they really can't live with a life of decent men but they don't ask for our pity, they're looking for a legislative framework. To say immediately afterwards that they are for wage increases and to come to this but that they will not support this law regardless of what they think of it in fact as it is suggested. So that shows what was in the discussion that just because someone else proposes this law would not be accepted. And I understand that, it's the right of the majority. But if this bill achieves that our workers will be paid for their well-deserved work, that there will be no further exploitation of them, i.e. including all additions to that minimum wage to achieve that goal. It was GDP growth and was expected to have the possibility of a minimum wage being corrected. But what is the amount that needs to be seen wider. This is not just about workers, the state or now that someone pays them, there are very, very important employers. Because first of all, we need to know if that employer can pay that salary. So if the price of the worker's service is lower than that employer can achieve on the market that price so that it remains a profit he will hire the worker. Unless it's going to be him, he's not going to hire a worker to work with a loss. I'm talking about entrepreneurs here, and I'm not going to talk about bosses and speculators and that's because I'm sure most of our businessmen work hard and struggle daily to ensure their existence to themselves and their workers. I come from a place where there's a labour intensive industry and there's not a lot of unemployed people, but the pay is 25% lower in the north than in other parts of the Republic. I know there's a place where that pay is even lower. However, what we can do for these entrepreneurs to enable them and help them to pay more wages. There used to be a lot of leather-training industries, textile industries, wood that is now with a lot of training industries and textile industries falling apart from those big gigans and there are a lot of small companies that employ up to 50 workers. So we don't actually have any more unemployed people, but the wages are really low. It's about a job that sells literally hands. It's about breaking jobs where it's sewn for Austrian companies, German, Italian and where it's very, very, very dependent on how much the price of the service is achieved. What didn't work out for our entrepreneurs especially last year, and it's been very pronounced this exchange rate difference, so it happens that the euro remained only at the level of a year ago. Christmas and resurrection and regression could also be paid, however, these are considerable costs burdening business. The problem is next. There's the very structure of the workforce. Here's what we know is that it's mostly a labor force that's about 40, 50 years old and will have a hard time deciding to change its place of residence and employment. But what we have to do is overschool, that is, requalify those who can do it, younger but especially take care of what our schooling is, what kind of staff it provides. Here's the same specific situation. In high school, we needed a CNC operator. The registration of 20 students was obtained, i.e. 20 students were scheduled. They are students who receive scholarships from employers and immediately contract employment after schooling. Three additional posts were approved by the Ministry of Education, and there was a need for another 26. So it's the same measure that we can help our economies. When I was talking about this labour intensive industry, I know you can say, so let them achieve more prices outside. That's hard, because we both have competition and Serbia and Bosnia and Bulgaria and Romania. It's fortunate that they're a little further away from us, so there's transport costs, but the prices are really impossible to achieve more. And that is why Serbia in such cases, if more than 50 or more workers were employed with direct investments, i.e. internal assistance in terms of the necessary fixed assets, long-term assets normally under certain conditions and provided a truly quality one environment and a competitive environment. So, all our economies are daily exposed to the market, the market at European level, at global level, and they are really struggling. They're fighting for themselves, they're fighting for their workers, so please don't let the businessmen who work fair and square call the bosses. They're speculators that don't work properly, and the rest of them are businessmen who want to work and contribute to the development of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35563	Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure. Agent Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35564	I would like to say that although the SDP in theory advocates greater workers' rights, the basic reason why workers are exploited as well as all other citizens of our country is a credit-based financial system. So all the money that exists in our country that's circulating is debt and the problem is that when that credit is issued, only money is issued for payment, it's only the principal of the loan, and it has to go back and interest. And consequently so many companies were destroyed because of that interest system. So the interest system destroyed them. So Todoric borrows a caricure of 20 billion, has to return 30, and those extra 10 have never been created. Also, the state borrows 150 billion carikiras, has to pay back 300. The 150 will never have anywhere to go. Why am I telling you this? Because until the problem is resolved, the problem of interest default, the problem that there is no money to pay back will not be solved either by this problem of exploiting workers and the collapse of businesses. I'd like to be honest with you with all my heart that the SDP is leading monetary policy in favour of the workers, and this monetary policy that HDZ made in '94. By turning the Central Bank into a currency exchange and putting our country into a dependent position on a foreign source of money to have our own currency is terrible. I don't understand why the end of the war, the return of tourists and the establishment of the foreign exchange balance we didn't have during the war, why monetary policy wasn't put back to the beginning, that the state could still create money, that we had normal liquidity, etc. That question is not touched unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35565	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35566	Thank you, dear colleague Pernar. Well, I wouldn't dare engage in this debate with you right now, but what I agree with you is interest. But we are aware that since the world and the century there have been those who borrowed money, there have been those who sought, there was a need for money and, of course, it cost money. These are the interest that unfortunately is paid by those of our citizens who are the poorest, who have the least, they actually pay the most because they have to be constantly in debt. And that is why, if they are allowed that minimum wage to be higher, to be paid, or to be paid, which is not normally paid only by them so that they can live and cover all their costs, that they will not have the need to borrow, there will certainly not be such a cost of interest and will be easier to overcome because they will not be. I know it's one round cycle to roll it all around and carry it all from one to the other. But I'm just going to look back at this part that's the most important part, which is our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35567	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. Next up is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35568	Thank you very much. As far as the bill itself is concerned, no one has anything against the law, but the fact is that in Croatia, as far as workers and their rights are concerned, we are unfortunately talking about workers who are de facto in Croatia, even in certain areas where life is much harder and more expensive, and we can easily analyze it. In Zagreb, we have free textbooks that are good and in some richer environments, but in most parts there is much more expensive life so that even the increase in minimum wages is not equal in life everywhere. Because if someone has free textbooks for three children, it's a huge amount of money, and in poor areas they don't have, and that territorial part is complicated. The key problem is legal uncertainty. People who earned their salaries, didn't make them, here I... can mention Split, people have now lost that process no matter what their due employers were now required to pay between 10 and 200 thousand kuna the cost of hundreds of people, 200 thousand kuna. It's huge money means legal uncertainty. However, what has been done to Croatia with monetary policy? Here we go, for example. Telecommunications used to work in the post office when they were together in Croatian ownership and telecommunications a huge number of people, when we privatized our workers' layoffs and the growing number of workers. And that doesn't national resource was, so telecommunications is a national resource. It is the same in INA, it is the same in many other institutions, banks, so in many other institutions that were owned by Croatia, foreign owners have huge profits, much greater profits than in Croatia, and workers do not exercise their rights. And because of that, as in their countries and interest, Croatia is a much more expensive life, not only from food and basic supplies that colleagues have said but a whole list of what is much cheaper in other countries in us is much, much more expensive. Here we are in a position that has happened and in the country, here we will start from agriculture, from Slavonia we will move a little bit that in Slavonia money, everyone called on the EU when we enter that everything will shine, so why don't we have a minimum wage as in Germany. I didn't vote to join the EU, there was unanimity here, nor would I vote now that I see, nor do they shine stars when the flags were raised, Ivo Sanader who was raising, Jadranka Kosor or I don't know who, the unanimity was. I really thought, and I knew it was a lie and a deception so that we wouldn't be admitted into the EU so we wouldn't be their only buyers of their products, and that they were managing our resources and pulling money out, and that's visible, is visible from telecommunications or monetary policy. So by entering the EU in this way as servants, we have experienced that there is no worker in Croatia, and we have so many potentials of tourist, exploitation fields of huge mined raw materials, forests, water. Which we don't even have bigger in Germany minimum wage. 4 million people, it's a Central European city. So the policies are extraordinary, the policies so far have led Croatian workers to exhale, not giving added value. And even here are Croatia's trees for the processing of finished products from Croatian forests much easier to export than what our contractor in sawmills gets at a much better price or someone gets margins in his pocket. So the basic resource is the Croatian forest. So one private policy towards the Croatian man has led to this that only today we speak when there are no more workers to raise to 50%, and one and the other policies have done so so far. I don't want to justify myself, I will personally vote for this law in the first reading. In another, I will even give some as advocate and amendments, but it is sad what those who have been here for 3, 4, 5, 6 mandates have been ministers and have brought Croatian workers into this situation. It's a little painful, and at the very least, let's not insult it, it's the very faceless hypocrites who are obvious or ignorant to Judah. There is no ignorance, I don't believe that people here are not much, much more academically educated than I am, so they brought in a Croatian man that a third of Croatian territory is empty. I'm saying this because I come from these parts. You're sitting in a car, you're going through Lika, you're going through the Gorski Kotar or Slavonia, there's still... there's no industry, we've destroyed the shipbuilding, we've destroyed the ironworks. So I'm thinking what are we talking about? The Croatian iron worker goes down, we do highways and we import iron from other countries from Turkey, and we get tons of people with qualifications, expertise, ability to produce quality iron that must be armed throughout the route of highways, neither grams nor kilograms. What are we talking about? Then the former ministers reported that the Croatian highways had been made, but that's why we had to drown in foreign hands, so I can say literally high treason policies, betrayal of the people, betrayal of what happened in the Homeland War together. And therefore, I will uphold this law but disappointed that the worker has less and less. There are, shipbuilders in Asia, Korea and other countries, welders in South Africa, went to all over the world, cattle farmers in Ireland, our farms are empty, sharing the money that was supposed to go to our OPG, went to Todorovic, and by the other hand, there is now a man, it's about Todorovic but there are still tycoons who are now silent and hiding. Therefore, I will literally not speak to the judiciary in the Croatian society. Justice is the bottom of the bottom. The labour rights process, ten years later, a man dies, doesn't earn his salary, he loses his salary neatly, because entrepreneurs can pay good lawyers, then in that hoax, of course, that worker still takes his house along the way. It's been brought, I've got countless examples, and I'm going to count my Cetina landscapes just where I live. So where are these Dalmatian people now, Chetinka, these are thousands of people, they're developing a Chetino neighborhood, a splinter of Splitian. Before only from Sinj went 30 buses in the morning, for Split none are going now. They're only going to Ireland but in one direction. So any law that improves workers and workers and their rights, this minimum wage is acceptable. However, those who propose must repent, we should kneel to the people I will support this, kneel below the people or at least lower my head to the people because two-thirds of Croatia we have empty, the demographic image is catastrophic and it is currently Croatia for you. And every incentive towards the worker, of course, here I am personally saying that I will support anyone coming from the left, from the centre, or from the right, but I'm afraid that you have trampled on the Croatian worker but hope should not be lost. We need to keep fighting and we can do it together and leave the hypocrisy aside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35569	Thank you. Next debate, MP Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35570	Respect as a person, i.e. as a person whose duty is to raise awareness, I have the need to respond to a representative who said that there has always been a interest system. But before I answer that question, I'm going to look back on one thought, and that's the next, and I'm going to read an article. one text: "A financial system is currently set up in Croatia and the EU, which only knows loans as sources of money. This system has one fundamental flaw that all economies must draw into infinite debt. Mana is that the only real source of interest income on deposited funds paid by the central bank to other banks." This system is based on real money but generates only credits in further action. And here's an example that proves that this system can't start with a zero balance. If the central bank issues all loans and asks for another 10% interest then it is clear if there was no money before that there was no money for these 10% interest rates. In fact, the percentage of interest is not important at all because any interest cannot be found to repay all loans. That money doesn't exist. It will only exist if a new loan is raised to pay interest. But now he can't go back to the whole capital or interest on a new loan. And that's how it goes as long as the bank wants to lend you loans based on your assets. At one point, you're being torn up by loans and then you end up like Mr. Todorovic. But what I was actually going to say, that's the following, there's always been interest in some form. At first, however, it was a trade. If you borrowed it, let's say four sheep, you could have returned the heel because the sheep brought the sheep. If you borrowed a pound of wheat you could plant that wheat, the wheat would grow and you could pull a lot more pounds of wheat back and you could return the wheat with interest. Also, at a time when it means 'let's say the gold of a certain weight was considered as if I were to say it with a value might also be a debt back. Why? Because there were gold mines, so there was a constant source or silver or copper or whatever. However, unlike all the natural things that multiply, means animals and I don't know seeds, etc. or unlike minerals, or metals that we can dig up but gold, diamond, etc., money, means paper money is not multiplied in any form. So if I get a loan from a bank in the amount of 200 kuna, that 200 kuna no work, no, I don't know what I'm doing, it's not going to turn that 200 kuna into 250 or 400 kuna, and the trick is just that we as a society have to pay back more credit than it is, that's it. More money than we borrowed. Because banks only borrow money for the principals. Now what's going on? Ivan Pernar comes in 2011 and says, listen to the people in this system where the central bank exchanges all the money is an external debt that flows into the interior, always due to the effect of interest back to foreign creditors more than we borrowed and therefore we have a credit crisis. And then there's all kinds of smart heads and they say no to Pernar you're talking nonsense, you're a lunatic, you don't have a school, you're a nurse, you're a brother, whatever. However, as much as I've been attacked, insulted by ad hominem, my expertise has been challenged, etc., the fact is that the empirically proven what I'm talking about in theory. The first thesis is that the macro-level society cannot repay the loans. You have a state situation that keeps raising new loans to pay back the old ones, essentially the sovereign debt I say is growing vertically up. You have large economic operators like shipyards, railways, highways. Neither can they repay the loans. At that time, gentlemen in the Parliament and in the Croatian public, you have a mass of companies that have been raising loans and that have not been able to repay them. You could pick them up by day of judgment. Then there's another mass of citizens who can't repay loans and then some citizen comes along and he says yes, like but I can repay my loan. But he doesn't realize that his credit is negligible compared to the total amount of credit. So if me and my colleague Branimir Bunjac raise each and every 100,000 kunas of credit and bring them back successfully, okay. We're back. But Agrokor Ivica Todorovic will not be able to repay 45 billion kuna for example. It's just one example, and you have a mass of such examples. And the basic problem that our citizens have, or the trap they're going into, is that they're going from individual to general. So they come from the assumption that if I can personally repay the loan essentially the loans are repayable, and the truth is actually the opposite. I can't go back to the credit essentially, which is the idea of a happy situation that I've been able to get back. And until this basic problem is solved, so that's a financial system issue we'll have permanently in the system of broke, unreal exchange rate, high unemployment, no production. After all, we'll have small minimum wage and that won't change. We can discuss here until the day of judgment how to help the poor, but while the financial system is such that the homeless in the country people will be forced to work for the minimumer, people will be forced to leave the country and society will fail. My wish is the gentlemen of the SDP didn't fight you. My interest isn't only in this matter personally, just my parties or some interest groups in society. When I'm fighting for a different monetary system where the state creates money without taking credit, I'm fighting for the interest of every member of society, and I'd like you to unite with us to that end, and that one day when HDZ is in opposition, let's say that Mr. Pernar let's make a monetary reform, let's save the people, companies from debt slavery, etc. But what? We are all here in the Parliament, except for us, a couple from the Living Wall, who wrote that the CNB Law is a sacred letter, that it must not be touched, that it must be as the EU in '92. decided on the Maastricht Treaty. We plotted it that way, and the next sacred cow, we, as a society, fall into ruin. And now Todoric's going down, Agrokor's going down. Okay. I personally enjoy his ruin. But the problem isn't that he's going down, the problem is that tomorrow one of us is going down. So it's not Agrokor's first or last firm that goes in, well HDZ will try to save him from bankruptcy. But he's basically insolvent, he's going down, he's going to fall apart, Todoric is going to lose his property. The banks will take over. And now what's going on? As a society, we don't perceive it as a problem. We always do part-time things. The question is, let's save Agrokor. But how are you going to save Agrokor if the system is based on an indemnity debt and Agrokor cramps in credits? Or let's just say let's help people with minimum wage so they get a minimum wage, and we all know there's no money. And these are these games where we're all looking for partial solutions. And we have been looking for partial solutions in our country for 25 years. However, we see over 25 years that nothing changes. It means that our country is failing, that the system is not working, that people are blocked, they are fleeing the country, Hanžekovic is doing them, etc. Nevertheless, despite all this, we continue to resist changes, namely a key change, change in the monetary system. Why is it so I don't know. I'm trying to figure it out, but I only come to one conclusion. I have come to the conclusion that the conspiracy, that is, is too much of a coincidence that it would all be an accident, that is, from many indications I have created a closed circle of indicators, that is, the evidence resulting from it, that Croatian society is a victim of conspiracy, and that the conspirators are unfortunately the vast majority of parliamentary deputies who, instead of the interest of voters who choose them, protect the interests of foreign credit institutions that will eventually bring them to ruin themselves. A friend of Bunjac has trouble repaying credit. Well, there is, the whole state is having trouble repaying credit. And we don't treat that question at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35571	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First replica representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35572	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pernar, you have just now delivered a historic speech in this House attended by as many as 11 MPs. But all the luck right there is a lady in a corner who does a phonogram and will remain recorded. I believe this speech will be like a rare quote once the time comes in 20 and 30 years. Because you've essentially shown us the essence of the problem, the cause of what we have today, which is that people have too little pay, so there's a special minimum wage. You said basically what you know and the kid in third grade primary school, which is that with, say, 7 kuna you can't pay the bill of 93. Here, ask whatever child you want, she knows it's impossible, that you can't buy with 50 kuna car. Because he realizes that simply that value is far greater than the amount of his money in his hand. If in Croatia today from the mass, the currency mass is 7% cash, representing 7% of how it is possible to return the rest. So of the 10, 20 people who have raised the loans will eventually repay one, two, but they will serve as some kind of justification for the banks so that they can continue the path to destruction that you just described. I'd just add to what you've exposed means the question of how much interest is in this cell phone? 5%, 10%? It is 50 or even 60% is every one that produced at least one part for this loan including sellers and the one that brought it had to take out a loan. The credit was raised 20, 30 times to make this cell phone. And then what happens? Croatia has money, it has money, it could raise the minimum for not five, but seven thousand kuna, but money goes from Croatia to interest in other people's hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35573	Time. The answer to my colleague Penar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35574	Mr. Bunjac, when I spoke to Minister Maric, he told me a detail, says Ivane, do you know how much we give for interest this year 2017. And I ask how many, says 11 billion kuna. E said to me, Ivan, if we were to cut budget expenditures by $11 billion or for the money that goes on interest payments, we would have a surplus in the budget. So that's what he calls you, he says the primary surplus, but because of that interest, we're in a deficit. Why am I telling you this? That's why we're always told that we live on debt. But the truth is that we finance debt from our budget, so we don't live on debt, we finance debt. And I still don't know 45 billion kunas that the state has to repay loans that they don't lead to budget expenses at all but run some double accounting. That's what I told the minister when he was here. However, I would like to point out one detail. I asked Minister Maric how you say you will reduce the debt because before that he told me that the Croatian state's debt is growing vertically up. So I ask him what kind of story of a year-on-year reduction, and then you've got some extra of this stuff, and he's starting to say something out of the ordinary then. I thought so too, so we all know that his explanations are irrational, that the debt will not be reduced. However, these same explanations before he spoke to me probably also to the boss, he probably explained to the boss that the loans could be returned, I don't know 2019, 2027, two, and I don't know which 2038 we'll return these loans from minus to plus. But we see that we're only going down and that we're just sinking without anyone wanting to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35575	Thank you. Next replica, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35576	counterpart Pernar, Croatia has lost part of its sovereignty both in monetary policy and in the case of Agrokor, has lost sovereignty. This is not an unplanned situation of the entire state and the economic system in this way. And now, of course, we see that they're threatening the executions. The suppliers are looking for Todorovic, but it's certainly natural for a man who has a thousand and a half kuna for a purpose. It means that financial dependence on foreign banks and foreign capital is essentially a threat to sovereignty. if a citizen is not sovereign, neither is the state sovereign. Therefore, our policies after the Homeland War for what was the goal of fighting, which is a sovereign, independent Republic of Croatia, to create the concept of a free citizen, but here is the problem of debt slavery. And that worker who loses his job and if he has a minimum wage of five thousand kunas can hardly fulfil his obligations to his children and, of course, comes in the responsibilities and other relationships that basically introduces him into debt slavery. And so they kind of occupy our house by house, apartment by apartment, land by land, agricultural land, tourist facilities, it's a quiet occupation. But that's what the policies have been doing in the last 20 years. So the sovereignty of Croatia lost not in the interests of the citizens but in the interests of foreign rulers, and this was done by domestic servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35577	The answer to my colleague Penar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35578	Here's how I wanted to read from the book "I want the country plus 5%" written by Australian Larry Hanningan in 1971, he said this way "most people respected Fabian's word" he was a banker "and the rest were certainly wrong. Let's just see how our country has developed, how our production has improved, we are certainly making progress." And now watch this "to cover interest on the money borrowed by merchants were forced to raise their prices, workers complained that their salaries were too low, employers refused to pay higher wages by claiming otherwise to be ruined. Farmers could not get a decent price for their products, the housewives complained that food was becoming more expensive. And in the end, some went on strike, which was an unknown phenomenon until then. Others were so poor that neither friends nor relatives could help them. Most of them have forgotten the true wealth, fertile soil, large forests, minerals, and cattle. A lot of thoughts are just about money that they thought was never enough. But they never questioned the system itself, they believed it was their government that managed the system." You see, dear ladies and gentlemen. He says further "the economic situation has become worse and worse, workers were convinced that their bosses are making too much money, the bosses said both workers are lazy and do not meet their labour obligations fairly. Everyone was blaming others’, etc., etc. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian State is not governed by the Croatian Parliament, managed by foreign credit institutions, they have decided our monetary policy, they have kept us in debt slavery and the future of our country in this system is nothing, uncertain and terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35579	Thank you very much. And the final debate is individual, Agent Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35580	Thank you, Vice President. Here is a day-long debate that certainly was of high quality, yet here is a unique attitude and a common position of social sensitivity shown practically by all speakers and all MPs who have taken the floor here today and contributed to this debate. This is normal with this social sensitivity and social justice represented by all the representatives and the desire to protect our citizens from the borders of poverty, and this is also the obligation of every government, even as Stjepan Radic said, any authority that does not feel any of its people and does not deserve to be a national government. We have also heard from the minister here today on this subject of minimum salaries taken by the government, this government only in 4 months as far as it is at the head of the state and the increase in minimum wages and all that is being taken and what is planned in the next period. In front of us, we are responsible here and we must be responsible for both sides and for workers who must have salaries, minimum funds that can provide their families with a normal, minimum standard and not be at the poverty line but we must also look at the interests of entrepreneurs as Mrs Makar said here nicely because if there is no good entrepreneurs in Croatia, then there will certainly be no quality development. Unfortunately, there is often talk of bad entrepreneurs here, and it is good to point to that, but we can't base on what percentages, I hope it is very small, the percentage of bad entrepreneurs or those frauds, criminals, those who have become rich, look at the overall state of entrepreneurship and create a picture of Croatian entrepreneurship. In Croatia, the largest percentage of honest entrepreneurs who work hard, torture, work, in the conditions they are and pay both their workers and themselves. Every good entrepreneur, every honest entrepreneur, every normal entrepreneur must certainly take care of his employee's interests because if he doesn't have a quality worker, then he certainly won't have a quality job. And every entrepreneur's goal is to do a good job and make his own money. So if we look at that side, it also means an entrepreneur we can't impose obligations that they won't be able to carry out and come into a debt position and what Mr. Pernar was talking about and destroying his own company as we see it happening to both the biggest and the smallest. So also the representative of the proposings today who spoke and presented this bill well said two thoughts that pervade and show reality, reality and responsibility, which is what the conditions for the minimum wage could increase as one thought. And secondly, we raised as much as we could under the given conditions. We also need to behave today's government and we can't transfer to today's government what we didn't do yesterday or what you didn't do yesterday. And it is clear that the minimum wage, as an important factor in the development of entrepreneurship, must also be negotiated and negotiated with the Croatian Employers' Association, means both employers and trade unions and seek the most optimal solution because it is only realistic, it is only responsible and it can bring good to both the state and the people and entrepreneurs. So I think, however, the aim of the bill was to prepare for local elections and the desire to better position the applicant in local elections rather than the real interest of workers because it was a time of four years so that it could be done at a time when such decisions could be made. For this reason, the HDZ Club has also been put in place as well, but further responsibility has been given to both the Government and the government's work observation and the desire for this minimum wage to rise, surely it is the desire and interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35581	Thank you. I'm closing individual debates. On behalf of the promoter, MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35582	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd just like to highlight three things for a little while. It is obvious that the HDZ rejects the law simply because it does not have its position as there was no attitude in 2013 because we have not heard in any debate a concrete position why this bill is rejected. It is clear that a consensus in setting minimum minimum wage standards is needed and the question of minimum wage is not its height but what we are all saying about protecting workers, protecting against poverty, protecting employers from putting up with all other supplements that are not part of the minimum wage. Because the minimum wage law is much more than to assess, to determine the labour price because it also helps workers and entrepreneurs to determine clearly in the year according to what the minimum labour price is. But it is obvious that the ruling would not accept this law but I am personally pleased that here from the opposition all clubs have adopted this law. I hope the MOST will also accept this law because that reason which is stated that the law is not prepared enough was and the reason of the Archive Act, so it is also presented in the debate and then the law went to another reading I hope that the MOST will join this law to make it better and to finally enter the procedure in the second reading. But I am personally satisfied because it is obvious that the SDP initiative has been achieved because the ruling will increase the minimum wage, it will not dare to be below 45% as we predicted for 2018 and cannot be less because the law does not allow it to be less than it is now so that the SDP objective is achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35583	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this bill. Tomorrow we begin at 9.30 a.m. on a proposal for a National Day Decision for people with intellectual difficulties. Thank you. The session was interrupted at 1900 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-30-0.u35584	Next is the proposal for a minimum wage bill, first reading, P.Z. No. 57. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a minimum wage law is not accepted." Please, let's vote. The vote is over. 62 votes for, 3 against, 3 abstentions, 43 against, I find that the majority of votes have reached conclusions as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Here we go with the session. I've already seen the uplifted hand of the esteemed representative of Maras, so go ahead.
