ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47052	I'm looking for a break in the name of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club to discuss the elemental disasters and climate change.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47053	All right, the second is counterpart Vlaovic, third is Mateljan, Misic, Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47054	Thank you, Đuro Đaković Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47055	All right, Mateo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47056	Mr. President of the Parliament, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Flood Club in the state of Karlovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47057	You got it, Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47058	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I demand a break on Slavonia's collapse and the role of our entrepreneurs in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47059	Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47060	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Club, regarding the manipulation of archives in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47061	You got it. Five, is there anyone else? Yoko won't, then we have a break until 9.40, Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47062	Thank you very much, President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a break to discuss the floods in Karlovac County.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47063	Okay. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47064	Thank you very much. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, we are looking for a break related to climate change and related to the damage caused by the following damages in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47065	Seven, good. It's till 9.45. I'll see you. It's 9:00.35. It's a practice after 9:00.45. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the first club is a representative of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA and respected representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47067	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I asked for this break primarily driven by shocking numbers that from now on reported from January 1st this year to September 18th 2017, and without damage in Zadar County and without damage in the Carlovac County, and who knows what else will hit us in this three and a half months until the end of the year that 2.3 billion damages have been reported and that only 20 million are secured in the budget. I'll remind you of the condition of the previous years to get the picture. During the period 2000 to 2007, the damages were totalled by the elemental disasters of 1.3 billion kuna. So this year we have as many as 2.3 billion in neither year nor year, and in the whole 2000 to 2007 we had 1.3 billion of it only a fraction of it was recognised 81%, and of what was recognised because of the lack of money in the state register to farmers was paid only 10% of the damages admitted. In those years, around 3.5% of GDP, or a third of all that has been produced in agriculture, a third of agricultural GDP, has been lost. Furthermore, not so long ago 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, with a note by 2015 according to the Ministry of Agriculture statistics, there were no damages reported from elementary disasters, so in four years the previous total damage was 3 billion and 55 million kuna in four years 3, billion and 55 million kuna, and today in one year 2.3 billion in a incomplete year. I think we see what the trend is. This change provided for the compensation of our citizens is not enough at all, so I do not know if you are familiar with the strategy of adapting to climate change and with it action plan from 2040 with projections to 2070. In such a plan, all measures must be provided for in order to speed up climate change, we need to know in time how much current science can predict with its simulations where some climate change will occur in which part of Croatia, whether the rise of the Neretva and Primorje sea levels will devastate, whether the increased rain will cause internal damage and how it will adapt. If we build a channel in the carlovic area, if we know there's going to be more rain, if that's what the simulation says, it's going to make that channel a meter wider. It is therefore good that these projections are foreseen to be put in all documents. In part, this was incorporated into the National Security Strategy. Personally, I don't think I'm enough. As for the fees I've been talking about, we've been informed by the men on the field from the carlova County that even the last floods haven't been compensated yet. Karlovac County is blue almost every year, and there's a year when it's blue and a half times. Most of the infrastructure that exists there has been built by the former state, and this current one is unfortunately unable to maintain it. Climate change is an unstoppable process, influences are felt today, I don't think anyone can challenge them anymore. And if the greenhouse gas emissions are now cut off which these impacts are prescribed because of the climate system's trombones and the changes that have already been made so far would take decades before the climate is stabilised. From 16 years of the most extreme time i.e. Of the 17 most extreme years 16 were in this century. The World Meteorological Organisation confirmed that 2016 was the hottest year since the existence of measurements and thus exceeded the previous record years in this century 2014 and 2015. So it's not some curiosity anymore, it's not something that hits us every ten years, climate change, or the process where the climate from the stability that we witnessed in the past is going through the process of change, transition and is looking for some kind of stability in the future. We can expect a variety of disasters, according to the profession, they are becoming more and more frequent and intense, so we need a climate change adaptation strategy in this House as soon as possible, so we need an action plan in order to predict in time where there will be some kind of disaster as much as possible and to ensure in time the funds to compensate citizens, not these ridiculous amounts that are not a single prominence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47068	Thank you. The second is the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Honorable Representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47069	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break on behalf of the HSS Club to warn of the state and situation of the company Đuro Đakovic Slavonski Brod. Namely, this is one of the strategic companies for the Republic of Croatia, one of the most significant economic operators in Brod-Posavina County and such in the towers is said when Đuro rains the entire Brod-Posavina County. Today, a congregation of this society has been convened and today shareholders and employees, as well as the public expected to receive information that Black Steel d.o.o. which planned to invest 250 million kunas in the core capital of this company, which, according to this investor's announcement, would enable stability to society and would enable investment in equipment, investment in new technologies and knowledge and new products and enable the placing of these Đura products on the eastern markets. One of the investors is co-owners of a Canadian company, another from Kuwait, one of the richest families from Kuwait who can certainly contribute to what Đura Djakovic's management has been trying for years and has been placing part of its products in concrete tanks for which 154 tanks in former production have been delivered to this market, because through Patrija an additional special vehicle Đuro Đaković has acquired additional references and what the state expected from the administration, which is to look for new investors and capitalisation on the market, the company has done. In two rounds, shares were issued, the first round failed to enter enough core capital while in the second round of the planned 152 million kunas were recorded just over 50 million kunas, which is insufficient for the company to go further into development, to be invested in the presence of credit institutions and to go to these requirements of markets with the said military industry. And what has appeared in some newspapers these days, including in the Voice of Slavonia, is that there is no agreement in the government about this investor and this way of privatisation within Djuro Djakovic, allegedly that Minister Dalic and Minister Goran Maric cannot agree on what it should look like. So when they couldn't agree on why the prime minister didn't invite them all and invited the interested investor to sit down, to see how serious this offer is, which references behind this company, which in the future means both for the company and for the workers and for the entire economy of Croatia, and they didn't respect how much information I have or invite interested in the conversation. And today, a representative of the state at the assembly that has a majority stake in how much information I have, will not be able to vote on this. The newspapers say the state marginalises the situation in Đura Djakovic and in this company at all, and I say not to marginalise but at this point it turns out that the state is a brake for the development of the economy and Đura Djakovic. I think that the public must know, I think that it will condemn workers because they should and know that recently more than a hundred people have been fired from a special vehicle company and that there are 80 more jobs in the announcement, reducing 80 jobs. Do people deserve it in Slavonia and Baranja, Brod-Posavina County. He would remind us that in special vehicles, the largest part of the workers, defenders from the legendary 108th brigade who defended Croatia from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, and that the ship was the only city that had three brigades, 108 other 139th and 157th, which was still the city that had it, gave and was fair to these workers and to society in total in Brod-Posavina County and Slavonia and Baranja because while ministers can agree on the employment of new people, they can agree on the purchase of new cars, and they cannot agree on such valid investments and new jobs. So I'm ordering, and Slavons would drive new cars and pay taxes if they had jobs and could live off their wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47070	The third debate, SDP advocates' club and respected representative Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47071	Thank you, Mr. President, for the Croatian Parliament. Comrades and colleagues, we have witnessed that in the case of a little more serious rain, municipalities and cities in the carlovakia county, there are huge flood problems. Today it's Ogulin, yesterday it was Carlovian, and tomorrow it might be Ogulin and Karlovac together. In just one day on the property of the city of Ogulin, on the property of residents of the city of Ogulin, the flood caused damage to the most conservative estimates of more than 30 million kunas, so the Oguline Mayor sent yesterday a request against the mayor of Karlovac to declare an elemental disaster. I am from this place calling on the mayor to do it as soon as possible so that the citizens of Ogulin have at least a legal framework, a possibility to collect some of the damages that have happened. However, it is not even the most important, I am convinced that the mayor of the Karlovac County will declare an elementary disaster, but it is much more important from this place to call on the government of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia's water to do something and to do it immediately. Not to start thinking, not to start planning, but to start building an effective defence system against the floods of Karlovac County or the territory of the town of Karlovac and the area of the city of Ogulin. The Croatian government is obliged to provide some 300m kuna for the construction of this efficient system. 165 million kuna refers to the town of Karlovac itself, to the territory of the town of Karlovac, or downstream from the town of Ozlja towards the town of Karlovac and that area. 125 million refers to the construction of a defence system in the city of Ogulin, or to the construction of a retention of Hrelj. These 300 million kunas are much less than the damages that are indirect and direct to the citizens of the state of Karlovac and make the poor county even more uncompetitive in the territory of Croatia and beyond, the EU. Yesterday, the mayor of the town of Karlovac said a very good card, namely that these rains that are falling are not Karlovac rains, they are neither ogulin rains, they are Croatian rains. Equally, it is not just water, it is Croatian water and it is the Croatian government, and the towns of Ozalj, Karlovac and Ogulin are also Croatian cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47072	Fourth debate, Advocacy Club Let's change Croatia and the esteemed Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47073	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to talk about Slavonia, which has been ruined so far for all these 25 years. What's the problem with Slavonia? What's going on in this country to make such a rich area collapse. Because I'm living downstairs and I've seen over the past 25 years what's been going on, why our farmers have failed, why they haven't succeeded, because they've got a 100% higher investment price, for loans, something that cost 200 and 400, so they've still raised their loans and ended up closing more than 10,000 and more farms, so people just couldn't handle it. The other thing is, why is Slavonia still in crisis? We have forests in Slavonia and famous Slavic oak, all the ministries are in Zagreb, every order, they must send the forest to Zagreb to get some approval. We end up exporting fossils we don't have production. It's just... I would hire another 500 people just to let them have a tree contingent so that they could work and that they could produce for this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is a process that is very long and simply so comes that people can't just go on. We've got railroads. We all know that Croatia, the most interesting railways are the same west. Well, you see, for 25 years, we've been traveling almost four hours to Vinkovci. The railroad goes like you're going... Previously on AMC's The Walking [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a shame. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the strategy of ruining Slavonia. I'm familiar with the fact that there's about 5,000 people moving out of the parish right now. From Osijek, from Vinkovci, that if you counted, almost half the citizens are gone. As we will have, when we fight for politics, we fight for a strategy, where we are in Parliament, whether we are, whether this party president is good, whether he attacks power, Ustasha pay, that's the most important thing or the one in Borovo Selo that needs to be removed. Yeah, it's politics. I'd like to say something about entrepreneurs. We need to know that we had similar entrepreneurs, from 0 million to 100 million, entrepreneurs, who, with politics and who were passing and earning and taking money from our citizens. And we have humble entrepreneurs who barely survive and who pay taxes in this country and who control the state. It's three different companies. We still have investors, we have an investment in Slavonski Brod that I spoke last year. The man invested 2 million and 150 people needed in Sibinj and he still couldn't get permission to start working today. Well, that's a shame, that minister should go see what's going on. We have an investment at Dubrovnik, where I personally went to see what was going on there. These are billions of some investments, where an entrepreneur, an investor, has invested around 30m euros so far, cannot get permission to build his own project that he has made. Someone needs to bless from Dubrovnik down there and say you can. If you're going to get it, if it gets it in 10 years, give it to him now. If he can't, ban him now. No, we are local forces, we can determine from the lives and deaths of this nation. People are leaving, nobody's fault, no. Whoever's to blame for the rest of Slavonia, Osijek empty, there's no guilt. We're surprised. Well, we didn't make any preconditions. The minister at each location should go to see or close it or approve it. An entrepreneur can't wait. It's a debt every day without talking about the year. I talked about this guy from Brod last year and he hasn't solved the problem yet. He wrote to the presidents, ministers, and they told him to contact the local community. 2 million and 100 people need to be neglected, so 100 people from the ship will be gone. I'm an entrepreneur, so I know what it is. I know what's bothering you with institutions, which are slowed down, that don't do anything that one piece of paper you need to wait three or four months, so I don't wash some of my own that I had a problem with, so eight months I've been waiting for one piece of paper that's most normal from our police. Eight months, embarrassing, embarrassing. That's why I'm doing it, that's why it's been destroyed, because Slavonia can't survive, and our entrepreneurs are leaving, and our young educated children have nothing to ask for anymore, they're going to Germany, Belgium, they're even leaving these companies that barely survive. We won't have a master or anything in this country later. We'll just talk here and wonder what happened to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47074	5 debates, respected representative Zeljko Glasnović on behalf of the Representatives' Club independent for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47075	Dear colleagues, said Orwell once, the past has not passed. And the past is Mr. Mikulić, allow it pure analysis, which is being manipulated today. This means that a special war against Croatia is being waged within Croatia and outside Croatia. Let's go with the newer archives. Did the Parliament hand over their archives where they were supposed to. The parliament, has SOA handed over its archives, the signatories of the refugees, who have files in Belgrade? I don't think she gave up. Here you have in Parliament, for example. documents where hundreds were given, hundreds of thousands of euros. Wherever a partisan gets wet, there's some kind of September Paris deal 80,000 kuna... 100,000 kuna, this 100,000 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Hundreds of thousands of kunas, you have tens, 20 documents available to me. What about the other one? How that money was spent. Some, it was signed by these secretaries, secretary of parliament, etc. and some who have code names like Degenerek, Filter 57, etc. One of them paid his godfather 40 thousand kunas, etc. And they couldn't pay off the people who work overtime in the Parliament for the money they work here for the Church. It's not history, it's present. Also, uh, when we look at these things, there's an example. Another documentation hidden from the Croatian public, which proves that Croatia was occupied by the 1990s. I've got a list in my hand... Internal affairs in Makarska, where out of 40, 50 employees, all were Serbs, and 2 were Croats, one Russian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does that say about us? And Makarska then had 11,000 inhabitants in the '90s. These people came from Lower Lapco, Lower Wacouf, etc. What are we talking about? What else do we have here? I hold in my hand a document that proves that the Croatian Army was... '94. years of the BiH Army's secret service. One man was the squadron commander at Dance, there are others, they have code names. Did SOA know that before, does the president know that? That man may still be here and may still be a threat to national security. He gave all the information on the acquisition of weapons to the BiH Army. I hold in my hand two liquidation orders from the BiH Army's secret service. One for the liquidation of Juke Prazina who was a HVO major, he was killed, they found his body in a ditch there in Belgium two thousand and some years. And I'm just going to read this which is... relevant to our secret services, this is the second liquidation order I'm going to read: "I suggest that Hoji Solo abolish co-operation with merhamet in Zagreb and execute its liquidation." Chief of Staff, Urfan Malkoč. Here's the story of national security. In the end, I wave with one book, when I say the secret war against Croatia, books printed in hundreds of thousands of copies... fool for a year it is called "Croatian... World War II." Printed who's printing this? Well, she printed the Military History Institute in Belgrade. Is there an international agreement in the succession of the former states to return the archives from NDH... today. The archive of Yugoslavia, the archive of Serbia, the archive of the MUP in Serbia, where there are people who may be sitting here who are a threat to national security and are sitting here. Why? Because they were selling sex, sex exams at college, they had fake academic titles, and... their citizens were ticking that some were getting two years in prison for jokes, etc. Nobody's worried about that. And finally, I will say this, that not Croatian parties and not Croatian media... they will do everything to avoid catharsis in this country, they will hide the truth. And this is an appeal to Croatian voters, not only voters, this is not a political campaign, but an appeal to the Croatian people to resist... and to seek the truth. They can't stop the catharsis, they're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47076	The sixth debate was a respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, Club of Representatives of the HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47077	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are witnessing that even today most colleagues here have used this break to warn about floods especially in the carlovakia county that have been current these days. I must say that our colleague Lipoščak spoke of it two days ago from this pay phone and that it is good that we are all aware of this problem, that we refer to it and that we are looking for an urgent solution on the right and on the left. But I must also point out that this government is very aware of this problem, and this also proves that Prime Minister Plenkovic, with part of his ministers, was in the city of Ogulin at the time of the swim that he witnessed all the problems that were there and that they had taken along with the headquarters all that was possible in the day of the protection of both people and property and municipal infrastructure. Of course, the people whose water came into the house, and these days when temperatures fell, it is not a great comfort, but all of us who come from Karlovac and who have witnessed the floods in 2014 on two occasions and 2015 know what these problems are. But I also have to say that the Croatian government is just not thinking about it, as counterpart Matteljan said. The Croatian waters are also aware of this and the project has been under way for several years, but it is a very large project and it needs to be provided with very large resources for its realization and I believe that this government will find a solution and we will all push together, all of us will invest the greatest effort and knowledge at local levels and at national level to bring this project to an end as soon as possible. So far, there are mostly property-legal relations for the parcels that are needed to cover the project. Most of it's settled. Of course, other problems such as the retention on the Mekushan field have been solved, but I must also point out that the Management of the city of Karlovac itself invested about 20 million kuna in the repair of the damage to the municipal infrastructure in 2015. Of course, our flood - affected population cannot be satisfied with the speed of solving the problem, but we also need to be aware of the reality of the situation. What I must stress, however, is that I was somewhat pleased that Minister Ćorić, who was in the town of Karlovac yesterday along with the Director-General of Croatian Waters, announced that in his term, the completion of this project will be a priority and that although the value of this project will be estimated at around 670 million kuna that the project will be planned by the end of 2023. Therefore, we hope that this will be and so, we hope that our citizens in that period will not be often and we can actually say that we pray that they will not be exposed at all in future floods but that at local level we will also do everything possible to prevent floods to the extent that the local level can be, but we all from here must help bring the project to an end as soon as possible and help our citizens. In that sense, thank you again to everyone who helped our fellow citizens at the moment they were flooded, from headquarters, from flood protection, and from our firefighters, members of the MUP, members of the Ministry of Defense, thank them all because our citizens are very helpful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47078	Thank you very much. And the last one will be the last of those looking for a break from club GLAS and HSU in the name of the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47079	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, so today a lot of us have been looking for a break from climate change. And it seems to me that these things should be seen globally and locally. Climate change is a fact. The Paris Agreement was signed in April 2016 and ratified by the EU in October of the same year and then we have a situation that the President of the United States, Mr Trump, says there is no climate change. However, your nature is very cruel. Nature returns to you at the same time. So of course, one consequence of climate change called Irma has shown what it looks like when someone has no climate change because climate change really does. And where is Croatia? It seems to us that Croatia is relatively small there, we can not have much influence on the causes which we did not objectively influence, but we have consequences. The consequences are evident in a number of things. They're seen in floods, they're seen in droughts, and they're manifested in the aftermath of all that. We now see floods and what is respected fellow Jelkovac when she spoke here, she said I am proud that my county from which I am city has invested 20 million kunas in the recovery of infrastructure, for example for 20 million kunas has the State Commission for damages, so we're talking about the same thing. So we always talk about the consequences, and we talk about what to do but what we have to keep in mind, how that these consequences are as small as possible and the consequences will be. The result of these great floods will be the next situation, and that will be the slides. Especially in our parts where actually the hilly end where the composition of the terrain is like that. So, what do you need to do? Let's talk about what needs to be done and what needs to be done on a continuous basis. It needs to be done continuously next, which is to maintain agricultural areas, maintain natural channels, maintain averages in forests, because that's how we can reduce it all together, we don't do it, we don't do it when it comes to private property, and it doesn't seem like a state. The same way I've been hearing about projects that are related to the Carlovia County for ten years, and now they're bigger deadlines. So if you're on the rivers, and if it's such an area, and if we have what we have, and that means increased after a dry period, an increased rainy period, and if you're having a terrible amount of rainfall in a short time, you can't stop it, but you can ease it. And the role of us all and the role of those who plan and the role is to all ease. And the role of all who pass laws and who will come to this assembly to discuss these laws, let's see what mitigations are because the situation in the space is different than it was 10 or 15 years ago. The plant and animal world adapts and you have little to see when you see that some other cultures are being planted, that some other situation, when it comes to the animal world, then you have had the opportunity to see that some other species are coming into our seas that we didn't have, and also, of course, climate change is the consequence of man's action, but then man should act to make these consequences as little as possible. And there is a role and there is Croatia to watch what should be done. The first and basic thing, to maintain as I've already said, the averages in the woods, to reflect the channels, but to build infrastructure. When it comes to the Zadar area and this large amount of rain that has fallen, all of this has resulted in what was in the Zadar area, among other things, a terrible little sewerage. That sewerage couldn't swallow all that water, so to speak, but the consequences were black pits. And everything that's in that so-called. The black pits were coming out. So today we have in the parliamentary procedure all quite interesting laws, we have a series of but quite interesting laws in which certain elements are actually to be installed for recovery or for prevention of climate change. One law is the Law on Agricultural Land which says that land should be maintained, which are obligations, we say it neatly, we have in law, and in nature we do not have. And the other law is the Nature Protection Act. It is the same law that should introduce new elements that are related to the situation, therefore climate change is a fact, it is an appeal to all of us, I think the time has come for one thematic session related to climate change of various reactors and to see how to reduce the consequences and mitigate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u47080	Thank you very much. We will now move on to the first point we have predicted, which is: - Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forestry Advisory Service, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 168 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Tugomir Majdak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49456	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Here is the final proposal of the Law on Croatia to the Agriculture-Forest Advisory Service, in the context of the first reading on behalf of the motions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resoring Ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture. The adoption of this law, meaning the Law on the Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service, will regulate the system of consultation in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, and will more specifically determine the work of the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service as a specialised public institution for the performance of the services of advisory services. According to the State Statistics Institute, the educated structure of persons engaged in agricultural activity in the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately very low. All 4.96% of farmers have agricultural education, while over 95% of farmers have only practical experience. If we add to this the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, an informal education and professional training programme is missing, it is necessary to regulate the system for consulting farmers, forest operators and fishermen in order to raise the level of their expertise and competence to apply the obligations arising from the EU legal framework. This will not only enable better management of economies, but also greater efficiency in the use of the financial resources available to them through national funds, but also through EU funds available, and greater competitiveness in the activities carried out. The proposed law intends to create a legal framework for the implementation of the system for consulting, regulating the work and competences of the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service, in particular in accordance with the European Parliament and Council Regulation, 1306 in 2013 which is a basic regulation and defines the consultation in agriculture and therefore this proposal for a law, i.e., future law bearing the EU mark. Regulation of the advisory system in the way it is regulated by EU regulations, I will be encouraged to use the advisory system, and to provide the possibility for users, in particular in assessing the results of their agricultural economies, and to identify the necessary activities to improve and improve them, in relation to the required requirements, governance, good agricultural and environmental conditions, agricultural practices, useful for climate and the environment, and measures to modernise, develop competitiveness, innovation of market orientation, and encourage entrepreneurship. The users of the advisory system are farmers, private forest operators and fishermen who carry out the activities of agriculture and fisheries in the area of the Republic of Croatia and are beneficiaries of support under the common agricultural policy and of the common fisheries policy. It can also be used by farmers and forest operators and fishermen, who are not users within the framework of the common agricultural policy, as well as by the common fisheries policy. ... the advisory system and provide, above all, professional support to those who use it to improve sustainable management and the overall result of their business in agriculture, forestry and fisheries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, it will facilitate the start of business and the development of economic activity, as well as the development of short supply chains, adaptation to climate change, organic farming and health aspects of production. Greater expertise and training to carry out activities will also contribute to faster achievement of EU standards and will lead to employment growth, agriculture, fisheries, forestry and the strengthening of the activities of agriculture and fisheries. The law is expected to have a positive impact on better use of EU funds, which will reflect the financial impact, on the activities of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, and on the growth of competitiveness and the strengthening of the economy. In doing so, joint action by the institutions responsible for agriculture, forestry and fisheries and environmental protection with the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Services is necessary to ensure that advisers who are in the system of consulting farmers and private forest owners are qualified and trained regularly. In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia as it will benefit from the establishment of an advisory service infrastructure that has the necessary administrative capacities and technological support to facilitate the education and transfer of knowledge to users. I would like to point out here that, compared to last year, the budget of the advisory service is in a certain section, in that section of the expert advice and has an increase index for next and next year. In the light of the current law on advisory services, this law more precisely regulates the competence of the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Services to consult on the following activities, commitments on the holding in accordance with the regulatory requirements of management and good agricultural environmental conditions laid down in Regulation 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, further, agricultural practices useful for the climate and the environment and the maintenance of agricultural areas in accordance with Regulation 1307 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2013. In addition, measures on the agricultural holding, planned rural development programmes, for the modernisation, development of competitiveness, sectoral integration, innovation, market orientation, and the promotion of entrepreneurship in accordance with Regulation No 1305 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2013 as well as requirements for water protection in accordance with Directive 60/2000 of the European Parliament and of the Council and requirements for the professional use of plant protection products in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2009. In the process of drawing up the Proposal for a Law on Croatia, the agricultural and forestry advisory services are directly through the Central State Portal of e-consultation, a large number of representatives of state and public institutions are involved, but also representatives of farmers, agricultural associations who have contributed to the first reading of the law in this form, meaning, quality presented today in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49457	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49458	Honored Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, in my presentation, I would like to express the satisfaction of me as a foresteer, and I believe the entire forest profession, which is the word forestry greater in the name of this advisory service. The Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service determines and has a national component in it, as well as precisely determines the areas for which consultation is carried out, i.e. agriculture, forestry and fisheries. I also want to connect with Mrs. Mrak-Taritash's exposure which she said in her presentation that she should work to prevent fires. It is by means of funds that go through the Forest Advisory Service, which are derived from the so-called so-called Forest Advisory Service. OkFŠ private forest owners should edit their surfaces and also build roads that would be used during a possible fire intervention. I welcome once again that the word forestry is returning to the name of this advisory service. I also hope that it will return to the name of the ministry itself, because during the Minister's word, forestry was something that was persecuted by the name of all institutions, which certainly was not dear to us foresters and forest experts and what we were up against. I'm glad that some things are still moving in that direction for the better, and I hope that this advisory service, as far as I know and further teamed up, will do its job even more quality than it has done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49459	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49460	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Secretary of State and the Honorable Officer of the Director's Office. Of course, I'll say it myself first, and I'll say the name of the club myself, and I'll support this legal proposal, and it's a good legal proposal we need this. But something that's a little bit in my eyes, it's been said on the board, and we've lost about 150 thousand real-sector jobs to the crisis here, and that's what some estimates are, but 50,000 jobs have been increased in public and state administration. Because of the perception of the public and everything the public is looking at today and they're going to listen to this debate, somehow I don't think it's good why the deputy director is now being introduced? I don't get it. We had directors and assistant directors, of course, if it's necessary to introduce ourselves, but somehow because of the perception of the public, and we also have representatives to explain it to us if you can explain why it is necessary now to introduce the Deputy Director. Is it because of the scope of the job or just some new redistribution of jobs, but I don't think that's the best solution. I'll make other remarks in the debate on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49461	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49462	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HSS party and I personally support the adoption of this law because we are aware of the importance of this service on the ground, especially in contact with agricultural producers, to enable them to come up with new knowledge, to monitor the development of technology and to prepare their OPGs for withdrawing funds from the EU through rural development measures. The Secretary of State said that additional financial resources are not necessary for the implementation of this law. And I also think at the club that the Government and the RES must allocate more resources to develop agriculture in Croatia, especially for those services that are directly in contact with the OPGs and thus help the availability of OPG information. Why am I saying that? Well, the fact from the field is that a large number of consultants and there is no possibility of getting to the OPG because they are limited by material technical means, they do not have the ability to car enough or the means to tour the terrain but are converted more into administrators in the opinion of the OPG. For these reasons, it should increase the resources to make counselling available. And also important is the motivation of the consultants themselves because if an expert associate in the advisory service has a salary of 4,400, a senior expert 4,960 if I have good information, it is below the average salary in the Republic of Croatia and it is lower wages than in other agencies in the same ministry. So my question is whether there is a plan to do what is planned to equalise first of all that salary and to provide more resources for advisors to be available to those who need it, and these are the OPGs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49463	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49464	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Majdak. In order for each ministry to be a good advisory service, it must be well-acquainted with good and educated people, but here we heard we needed and needed certain resources. You also said in your opening statement that this bill regulates the system of counselling in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, and, consequently, since fishing is also a vital economic branch, this should be considered, although this is the proposal for a law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forestry Advisory Service that this service is called the Croatian Advisory Service for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. That's good for public perception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49465	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 23rd session held on 20 September 2017, the Agriculture Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on Croatia's agricultural and forestry advisory service, which has been submitted by the government to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 13 July 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held a debate on the proposed law as the home working body. The debate shows that the service needs to be relieved of administrative work, the work of the service is directed to education, and takes into account the degree of formal education of users. In addition, it is necessary to lay down criteria for access to advisory services in order to avoid unnecessary repetition of the provision of the same services to users, the opinion was given that fisheries could also be included in the name of the agriculture and forestry service. In view of the effectiveness of the work, it is noted that the need to ensure a higher amount of resources for the work of the service in the national budget, but also the need to plan a system of evaluation of staff of the service staff in order to raise the level of quality and efficiency of the service. After the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a Law on Croatia to the Agriculture and Forestry Advisory Service is hereby adopted. References and proposals submitted in the debate shall be made to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for a Law on the Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49467	Thank you very much, dear fellow Križanić, and I am opening the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the first representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49468	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Director of the Advisory Service, colleagues and colleagues. The MOST of Independent Lists will support the adoption of this law because we believe that the advisory service in agriculture and forestry is extremely important, it also has some kind of historical review until the independence of the Republic of Croatia before the Homeland War there were agricultural centres, I think that's what they were called, a agricultural station. Since the Homeland War and here in 1991, the agricultural advisory service was established, in 1994 the government's decision founded the Sector of Agriculture Advisory, the sector of the ministry and '97. The Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory has been established. He acted until 2010 and then, with one adjective solution, joins the Agricultural Chamber which was founded a year before, 2009 and after two years for operational reasons, the Agricultural Advisory Service becomes a re-insured institution. In 2012, there is a legislative framework on the Agricultural Advisory Service and in 2013 we have the first amendments to this law and these most important changes are actually the accession of the former Forest Advisory Service to the Agricultural Advisory Service. So it's a brief history of the advisory service. It plays its part in Croatian agriculture just as it plays a very important role in all European countries of advisory services. Because on the one hand, with the promotion of the common agricultural policy, they enable individual countries and development strategies, the agriculture of each individual country because it is emphasized here, we will say something later when we talk about education, that there are theoretical knowledge, but it is mostly very important that most consultative staff meet daily on the ground with practice. And here they talk about the percentage of those who have practical knowledge and have no formal knowledge. We can say in principle that the activities of the advisory service can be in all ways, from the top to the top, that's what the advisory service reports show, these are different educations, these are the preparation of the education of people from the field of plant protection, pesticides, integrated production, so that's what the advisory service plans to do, and then it presents to people in the field, and by what I've seen, there are a lot of interested farmers. And the other way, in my opinion, is even more important, and that's a direct solution to the problem, in fact, the action of the advisory service when farmers call them. When they have a problem, workers go out and try to solve the problem with them. It's often that correspondence to express itself, mutually, and agency employees visit people, and then themselves when they notice it, they turn to help. And now I'd like to point out one perhaps remark that, since the first reading might be, it could somehow be incorporated into this provision of the law. In fact, in the very explanation, the Secretary of State also underlined only 5% of farmers have agricultural education, while 95% of farmers have only practical experience. Of course, it is illusory to expect that the Agricultural Advisory Service will address this because this is a little wider than the work of the advisory service itself. In this respect, Article 4 also states, that is, paragraph 2 which are the powers and we must recognise that, compared to the previous draft law, it is much clearer now to define what the activities of the Agricultural Advisory Service are. It's getting a lot clearer. Therefore, expert advice and instruction and the promotion of knowledge from agriculture, fisheries and forestry, which is certainly a basic task, technical and technological improvement of agricultural holdings and third perhaps this most important point, the organisation of education and training in the area of agriculture, fisheries and forestry. Today, in our society, a very current topic of curricula reform, so reform of the education system, in this sense, this legislative proposal should be built in and co-operation of the advisory service with the Ministry of Education, or above all, the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults. And for two reasons, the first reason we have a profession, and here Mr. Felak is in his replica when he expressed satisfaction with the introduction of forestry, we have an extremely strong forest college, we have agricultural colleges, these are meaning highly educated institutions. We have guidance in the area of secondary education for the direction of agricultural technician, then we have for the forestry technician, so in this cooperation to see what are the weak points of the education system, to strengthen, here may be a concrete proposal not now for this law, we will have a law on the availability of agricultural land. The specifics in the country when we start solving, so let's say, let primary school education be mandatory, let's go to the fact that for 6 years in the next agricultural land competitions no one can compete who doesn't have a completed secondary education in the area of agriculture, e.g. These are some concrete measures and it is then introduced into the strategy and this is the goal that I seek precisely for this reason for people to gain education, because it doesn't mean that if they don't have formal education, they don't have enough knowledge. They have knowledge, but they don't have education, then they can't even compete in competitions, they can't compete for European funds. And one of the important tasks of the advisory service is to certainly help people compete for money and withdraw funds from the European Funds. I haven't had time to look at the financial reports or the subject today, but from what I've seen there, I see that the advisory service has some income and that it's a sustainable one system. Therefore, to conclude this part, it would be good to achieve this cooperation with the educational system for this reason, as the staff of the advisory services are also in the field of daily contact with farmers. So, in addition to expertise, they must have certain teaching skills and to return now, I have not seen in the report whether the service has prepared and trained its employees in such a way... Lifelong learning, that would be very important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I say these are very sensitive issues, where people meet daily in the field with problems and have to communicate with people, so other than expertise must have a basic teaching and other knowledge. Finally, let me conclude, this legislative proposal will certainly be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49469	Thank you. We have one replica, at the last minute, of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49470	You mentioned an educational system in your discussion. Of course, when we call on agriculture, we also have numerous opportunities in Dalmatia, numerous fields, which unfortunately are abandoned, there are no irrigation systems, from numerous Krk fields, Vrgorački, Imotski, Sinjski and of course we do not have schools for agriculture because it is not adapted to our strategies, and that is to say, not one in the environment has a agricultural high school, let alone something more. The fact that the land, what is most important and the fact that this land should be used, unfortunately, in here in my area, Kameshnica has been assigned to the pastures, is also the land used by a man who does not, first of all, not known to the cattlemen down there, the state has assigned state land, nor has cattle. They'll simply get incentives to grow cattle, and basically there are no cattle, and people who traditionally don't get that land, means in these violences that are under the hill and used for pastures. And also in the examples and irrigation system of Sinjsko polje, where we have drought in the middle of the summer, and Cetina passes through the Sinjsko polje, so it is easy to degrade the country and therefore people are also leaving and the foreigners will certainly throw their paws at this country and this law should protect the agricultural land from buying foreigners. I just can buy this country homework. Well, your opinions on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49471	The answer to the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49472	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, here I am going to leave immediately from the end, so after this law on the availability of agricultural land, and that is ultimately my personal opinion, and that is where we agreed with the view of the Bridge Club that we should do everything to prevent the end of that sea worse in 2020 to prevent even though foreigners from buying the country of the Republic of Croatia without restrictions. What you've just pointed out, I've been asking a little bit this morning, I've been looking for it, I haven't found it, so it's a bit devastating that in Dalmatia, there isn't one in the whole area, there isn't actually, I don't know if there's a high school, but there's no college. I know about the Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek and Zagreb. So what matters is what when we talk about the advisory service, two or four concepts, like this, are always on our mind. This is sustainable development, sustainable agriculture and rural development. These are the two key things that we simply through the advisory service have to say to connect and agree, in that sense, what you're saying, every area, no matter how much there is and what the quality of the land is. Every area deserves to be given a chance to people, not people's areas, to give them a chance to live decently in that area, no matter how fertile the land is. And in that sense, and all the strategies that we're doing, and hopefully we'll do them sooner and more up-to-date that they'll think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49473	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Tomislav Liposjak, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49474	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary and Director of the Service, colleagues and colleagues. Agricultural advisory services in Europe are an important factor in achieving national strategies, the development of agriculture and the achievement of the common agricultural policy. Important advisory activities are also defined through European legislation, which prescribes and obliges the existence of a consultation system for each Member State to implement the activities, information and education of producers. The very beginnings of the agricultural consultation in the Republic of Croatia range back to the period before the 2nd World War when the so-called so-called "St. Rat" was founded throughout Croatia. agricultural cells, which in some of their different forms worked until their isolation of the Republic of Croatia. After the 1991 Homeland War, the Agricultural Advisory Service was established. In 1994, the agricultural advisory services sector was founded at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. In this form, the service worked until 1997, when the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory was established. Based on certain examples and recommendations, this Institute joined the agricultural chamber in 2010 which was founded a little earlier in February 20009. After 2 years of advisory service, it is detached from the agricultural chamber and again becomes an independent institution, which is also defined by the 2012 Agricultural and Advisory Service Act. After that, in 2013, the law amending the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service was passed and one of the most significant changes in the amendments to the law was the accession of workers of the former forest advisory service. The forest advisory service itself was established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in June 2006 as a specialised public institution for the performance of public authority tasks and the promotion of forest management and forest land in forests of forest owners, etc. private forests. It provided free advisory services and public authorities, assisted users in the management of private forest properties in the Republic of Croatia, and its users were forest owners, forest owners' associations and units of local and regional self-government. In addition to all this, she then changed her name to an advisory, quite general, and most people have an unrecognizable name. All these events within the last 25 years have shown that manufacturers need and want a stable advisory facility that can provide support at any time. In line with the positive experiences of EU countries, the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 defines a new position of the consultative service, which takes over a broader framework of responsibility and authority, which gives its work additional importance. Today, we have before us a proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural-Forest Advisory Service that is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The system for consulting users in the management of land and the management of the agricultural economy is one of the constituent elements in the implementation of a common EU agricultural policy managed by certain public or private bodies. This legislative proposal also regulates the system of consultation in agriculture and forestry and the work of advisory services as a specialised public institution for the provision of consultative services in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. How important and necessary is the system for consulting forest owners, farmers and fishermen as well as data from the DZS. Namely, the educated structure of persons engaged in agricultural activity in the Republic of Croatia is very low and as we have already had the opportunity to hear here today I think on two occasions, only 5% of farmers have agricultural education, while the remaining 95% have only practical experience. In addition to the current lack of an informal education and professional training programme, such a advisory system shall be offered in response to raising the expertise and skills necessary to meet the prescribed requirements. Better governance and greater efficiency in the use of financial resources are the ultimate objective of this system. I must stress here that it is also necessary to ensure regular training of system advisers and synergy of all institutions responsible for agriculture, forestry and fisheries and environmental protection with the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service. We all aim at making better use of EU funds. Without these resources, we will have a hard time raising competitiveness and modernising production. It is here that education and professional training will be important for the employees of the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service. The proposed law creates a legal framework for the implementation of a system for consulting, regulating the work and competences of the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service. For the implementation of EU Regulation No The European Parliament and the Council shall be responsible for the financing, management and supervision of the common agricultural policy as from December 2013. The system of advice from farmers shall include consultation on commitments on the agricultural holding arising from a series of prescribed requirements, agricultural practices useful for climate and the environment, maintenance of agricultural areas, measures on the agricultural holding provided for rural development programmes, risk management and the introduction of appropriate preventive measures to address natural disasters, natural disasters and animal diseases, herbs and others. The advice should also include safety standards at work or standard safety related to the agricultural holding, as well as specific advice from farmers, fishermen and forest owners who for the first time start their business. I would especially point out here that in most studies around the world these occupations of farmers, fishermen and fishermen are mostly included among the first ten per life-threatening. Foresting is often done in locations that are far from inhabited areas, there is a great risk of injuries by means of labor, but the danger of insects, other animals and weather disasters. Farmers are exposed to frequent handling of plant protection products that are mostly extremely health-threatening and if they are not handled according to the rules of the profession. The environment and working conditions of fishermen also leave little room for mistakes. Raising safety standards at work often saves lives even though we sometimes take it lightly. What this law aims to achieve is to assist farmers, forest owners and fishermen in assessing the results of their economies and to find the necessary improvements for the purpose of modernising, innovation and more competitive business, sustainable management and better efficiency are the final objectives of this proposal. In particular, young farmers, fishermen and forest owners should be most helped in the establishment of business, sustainable development and economic activities, and adaptation to climate change and their mitigation, biodiversity, water protection, the development of short supply chains, organic farming and health aspects of production. Users and farmers who do not receive support under the common agricultural policy may be used a system to advise farmers on a voluntary basis. I must also point out here personally as a graduate engineer of forestry and a person who comes from a profession that has more than 250 years of long organised history of forestry I am pleased to express that in the name of the service the adjectives of the forest have been returned, both because of the scope of the services of this service and because of the tradition of the forest and advisory service. I also hope that we will do something similar in the future at Ministry level. And in the end, I'd like to transfer a few reactions from field service personnel. They all welcome such a legal proposal and the effects that will result from it, with the conclusion that when these items are implemented on the ground, it would not be a bad idea to pay more attention and try to find additional resources to equip certain rooms where they are currently working and invest in work equipment, especially in the field work. Of course, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49475	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49476	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Liposjak, here's a very short replica actually more of a question, perhaps for me to explain. Namely, on the D2 state road called the Podravska highway, the density of truck trucks full of logs is actually amazing and then people asked or were there comments on what the Croatian forests were doing? They cut more than the Milky Ways. So when I spoke to representatives of the Croatian Forests, they said that in fact that mostly this wood mass comes from private forests. We see here that the role is and at least that's how I saw in the report that the determination is, in fact, the identification of all those trees on which the cutting is allowed goes right out of this service. So I'm wondering if you have any idea if it's actually in any normal frames, if you really respect yourself here, as you foresters say, the sustainability of the forest or has a special name, now I've forgotten? Do you have any knowledge of this, people are saying, confused and then think it goes from the Croatian Forests but most of the private forest, if you can comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49477	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49478	I thank my colleague for asking. Well, yes, you said well, all of this actually goes from the Croatian forests, all of these are Croatian forests, we have state and forest forest owners, i.e. private forests, and that, there is data or there is control cutting in private forests, in forests of forest owners. In fact, all regulations, or whatever is cut down in private forests, let’s say in layian language, are prescribed in management programs. Management programs are written by professionals and approved by the Ministry of Agriculture. So there are also all those who, of course, are in accordance with the law, should always be taken into account that some of the raw materials are being used in perhaps one illegal way but that is not going into the market, but is regulated by the laws, is prescribed and registered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49479	Thank you very much. And the last replica of my colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49480	My colleague, the advisory service is good if we have someone to advise more and more about how much the forest remains, and as far as farmers are concerned, there are fewer. As for the forest, the fact is that it goes to private people who own private forests, there will be advice on how and what to do, and while the state forest is abandoned. So I can say here in the center of Sinj, we're rich in forest in the center, we have where the state is owned by a pine tree, we call it the Pavića celestial. If they happen to plan, they are not maintained by so many Croatian forests, regardless of the warnings of many people, individuals, political options, authorities, absolutely not maintained, and threatens the threat not only of this forest but also of the property and people themselves, lives of people. Therefore, it is so messy that we here send a message through the EU directive, a message to private people to take care of their forests, and this advisory service will basically serve, obviously only for private ones, and who will control state pumas that nobody even cares about, rather than endanger people, residents, and could be very resolved because we have models and ways to engage and unemployed in maintaining these forests, of course with professional and advisory services, what do averages, how do averages, what pathways to make, for fire, fire averages, however, are not done. So we're bringing here a number of laws that have killed the purpose of ourselves and not being carried out by the state itself. Because Croatian forests are obviously as an organization are intended to themselves and do not take care of the state forests, and we send a message through the EU and the directive, to privates to take care of their forests. Private owners care much better than the state of its forests, and huge money stands out for Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49481	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49482	My dear colleague, in no way can I agree with you, namely, the first thing you said about us passing laws that serve, which are purpose to ourselves. This law is, in particular, not a purpose for itself, but is actually an extended hand to the private forest owners to make the best use of the resources provided to them, and to advise them in any way, in any sector, that what they do is done in a better way. Also, you said that soon there would be no one left, that there would be only the forest, that there would be none that would benefit this law. We are witnessing that just recently precisely because of the situation as it is, more and more people are also starting to deal with their private forest properties so that this law goes one step further. And as for the Croatian forests, we are often also in this House of Higher House witnessing frequent attacks on the state forests, on the company of the Croatian forest and cannot agree with you not to do their job, the fact is that we often mention that there are too many people in the system but in the mandate of the previous administration, it has been reduced that the number of employees in the state forests, especially in this area of which you are talking, where it was actually brought up to the date of the shooting, even the forest protection system itself where certain rules are intended and the reduction of the number of people in charge of forest protection against fire. And what we often say and what we can appeal to, the resources from the common useful functions of the forest, are very important here, very often we have reduced them, even the idea of abolishing these funds. What's our job is to leave that part, if it's possible to find the means to increase it so that exactly this situation doesn't happen in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49483	Thank you very much. Next debate on behalf of the HDS Club, HSLS, HDSSB Mr Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and colleagues. The club of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB representatives will support this law because we believe that the advisory service is extremely important in Croatia's agriculture. It is especially important for that and the most vulnerable part, which are the OPGs that have been especially important for all these years, especially at the time of the minister who is likely to be mentioned many times today, because it is the laws of the Tihomir Jakovina agriculture sector, which is in fact almost brought about by destruction, because today it is very difficult to recover, and one good part will be very difficult to recover. The advisory service is actually an extended arm of government policy, agricultural policies, these are people who have to implement on the ground what is outlined in the agriculture sector. In all these 25 years, the advisory service has often had very ungrateful roles behind us that people as advisers had implemented certain policies that were later devastating to many agricultural producers, so these people found themselves in the wind and had to answer those people why it was so. It is only a lack of a legal strategy for the development of agricultural policy, and then no advisers would come into such a dangerous situation of field work. I am not satisfied that this law and the implementation of the work of the advisory service and the agricultural forestry, in this part of the title, would be good to really add fishing in some future time absolutely, will not need an increase in funds. The increase, the budget. I think that this service needs to increase the budget and that it has to work, stronger, better because it is based on the development of agricultural production. When a counseling service was introduced many years ago in the forestry industry for private forest owners, there was a certain budget that was then regulated by these forest roads, people started, a nice process began, then something was destroyed again, damaged, and I think in that section it should especially strengthen the story, because as in previous discussions here in some replicas it was said, it was definitely that private forests were basically owned almost and not engaged. It is an actual stop and people simply don't have time or time to deal with it, and many private forests are actually totally and left behind today, because people have them and sometimes they don't know they have them especially in these parts around Zagreb, some 50, 100 km where there are smaller surfaces and smaller pieces of these forests. That is why this advisory service is very important and good that it is in the name and good to strengthen and strengthen human resources, so that much and stronger and better action can be done and work to preserve these natural resources. In order to step up the work and stimulate people who are counselors, we received some answers from Mr. Director on the Agriculture Committee yesterday. I would like the ministry's representatives to repeat it today, it's about how to stimulate advisers. How do you give people a stronger simulation, a stronger incentive to work better? Therefore, the consultant is as already spoken and will always be spoken and we all know that, the person directly in charge of the agricultural producer, especially for the OPG. So at the end of the year, you have to draw the line. It has to be analysed, it has to be seen how far this OPG progressed that year, how much this OPG stagnated, whether it went forward or not. If he went forward if he increased production, if he increased his profits, then that consultant also played such a role and he should get an incentive measure, of course in salary. If, on the other hand, a counselor advised that his users had no progress or backward, he would prefer not to consult, not to have it, as a consultant. He's got to do some other work. I was satisfied with that answer yesterday, too, but I'm saying, I'm asking that he put himself here a little bit more clearly today. So certainly in the advisory service, edit the pay system in a way that has one pay that is guaranteed, so to speak, and that the salary supplement is added according to how the consultant with his users worked and how he increased their work, improving the work itself. So I repeat, the O.P.G. is a target group. The OPG days have big problems, because they are mostly older people, very few young people. Help needs both stages and younger ones. The advisory service should also have a sliding working time. Namely, these people often have to work on weekends, have to work in the afternoons when various educations, seminars, and should be allowed to do so too in their working hours. Why am I saying that? So it wouldn't happen, what happened not so long ago. When the advisory service charged seminars and spraying education. So that's what people paid out of their pockets, and that's what they did in principle, people who were on the state's salary. Of course, there they immediately appeared, various different institutions, which were quickly registered, registered, and there's this show on the ground. Of course, whose account and whose pocket? From the farmer's pocket. I don't think such things should happen and that we could make it impossible for us to do so if, primarily, the advisory service is practically free of charge for agricultural producers and its user services, and then if someone really wants to go to some private person's education, they can go to him. And all other types of such education, the preparation of a programme for European funds, should absolutely work in these state services, primarily in the advisory service, allow people to really get real help with as little cost as possible, real support and then the advisory service will also be happy then those people who work there will be happy because their role will be fully fulfilled and they themselves will be satisfied. It is also useful for the state because we will withdraw more funds from European funds. So I repeat, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49485	Thank you very much for your representative, Hrg. There's a replica of Mr. Bull's representative on his display. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49486	I would agree with your debate, however, how much this advisory service will make sense when I or she was called yesterday by the people of Lower Lominac, it is a larger settlement in Velika Gorica where with only agricultural land along with the OPG people have where the source is. The water pool is the fifth well that powers all of Turopolje and Novi Zagreb by the house itself, along with the eco garden they called it the building asphalt base. And here we are talking about how the advisory service of people will train and pay people to spray without harming themselves, and here it has been convenient for the investor to build an asphalt base at the agricultural land where people will farm their land, where kindergartens are, where the streets, where the institutions, are home to health. It means that it is suitable at the lowest levels so that advisory services will advise this person who wants to open the OPG in the Lower Lominci. Well, isn't there somewhere else? I can see there's a fellow Shucker here, and he's very familiar with this case, and people are really crying to me last night. The mayor is not talking about these people protecting that land of those people who are fighting for their lives. Everyone's quiet, not even a local board. People self-organized themselves, people asked me to come, I left, and I saw that it was a really hopeless situation for people, and here we talk about the advisory service on agriculture, and here we bring the asphalt base to the heart of the settlement near the houses and agricultural land itself... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49487	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Replication response. Here you go, Mr. Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49488	There will be no reply to the replica, my colleague Bulj I was really talking about the advisory service and I find this very difficult in this Croatian Assembly when every topic discussed and which we should seriously discuss takes us somewhere quite tenth place and then we start talking about some things that are not at all. For what you've just said, it's probably so, but you as a representative know very well that you can turn to other places, seek the protection of the rights of those people you speak of elsewhere, and that you can, at the very least, look for a break and talk about it for five minutes on behalf of the club. But this kind of debate, distracting attention from topics that are very important and really important really doesn't make sense and I absolutely don't support it or criticise it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49489	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49490	The violation of Rules of Procedure in 238, where my colleague said that I was not talking about the subject, the very agricultural land, the OPGs about everything to talk about, and I was just in the topic. However, apparently local sheriffs are not doing their job, and if these topics were talked before, what I'm saying now is that they would not have a building permit now, the company's use of permission, but clearly has been silent in this House and no one has taken any action. I've been called by people who deal with agriculture, and that's just the subject, that's exactly what this is about. Here we impose some advisory services under EU directives, and basically advisory services as to how we started benefiting the land where we brought people, you will have no one to advise. You won't have anyone to advise on your policy. You've been in politics for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49491	Mr. Bully, the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. You used your right as used by some other parliamentary deputies to have a reply to a replica that is not done, but I ask you not to do it anymore during my presidency today until 13:30. Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, the next debate is from Mr. Zeljko Lenart, the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49492	...respected state secretaries, director, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today is a debate that begins with the title of the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service. Unfortunately, I get the impression here that we only change the name of this service so that we can choose a new director like we used to do in county management departments and so on. However, as we change the name of the advisory service, I suggest that this advisory service is then called the Croatian Advisory Agriculture and Fisheries Advisory Service. I believe that in this name fishing should also be installed because fishing is an integral part of Croatian agriculture and when the service and in its bill of law are already working on the subject of fishing, that it should then be in that title. In the very introduction of the law we start from statistics that only 4.96 are holders of the OPG people who are educated i.e. educated in this profession in some way, and 95% of them have only experience in production. Two questions are raised to me, which has been done by the Croatian Advisory Service so far when we have this educational structure in the country and I believe that this cosmetic change will essentially not happen in the work of the Croatian Advisory Service. Here is the minister, on Friday, praised for increasing the number of OPGs in the Republic of Croatia, and we have a decline in agricultural production, and I don't know if we are at all sufficient in the production of agricultural products in the Republic of Croatia. The advisory service can say that the situation is quite bad, we are not talking about the management of the advisory service and the headquarters of the advisory service in Zagreb, but on the ground, I am talking about those advisers and advisers who have direct contact with agricultural producers, who are already sick of the whole situation in the Republic of Croatia and the state of agriculture, and these people have to contact these people who are difficult to produce, and try and offer some services or advice for which they are often not even sufficiently educated because they have not been through all these educations that should be stronger and more constant. The consultant himself on the ground has 5 thousand kuna net, it is understood that he should have his own car so that he could go on the ground, mostly the areas where the consultants are located are not owned by the advisory service or the Republic of Croatia but also give it in some way to municipalities, cities, so they have grace and space mostly and directors, and they have very bad equipment with which they should do either some tests or help farmers improve their production. On the other hand, the information from these people is that the director has a salary of 20 thousand kuna, is that it or not, I wouldn't want to get into it right now, but apparently it is, I ask you who then says that Parliamentarians have a big salary? But I won't enter that part, the directors are variable goods, they are today, they're not, but those who stay on the ground and who advise these farmers whose production should be helped to improve, they're on the lowest salary, which is 5 thousand kuna, which I think for a graduate agronomy engineer, which is mostly, some of them are and the masters are really something that embarrasses them and insults them in this society. What is similar in the advisory service is evident, there are 405 jobs in systemization, and 277 are filled. The field shows a great lack of advisers and advisers, people who are supposed to go around the economy, and most of all they are forced to do administrative work that they have to work in their offices and mainly do not have enough resources to go around these farms with which they should contact each day and so that what Mr. Hrg was talking about, draw a line at the end of the year to see if the economy has progressed or has not progressed. I'm telling you this from the position of the O.P.G. whose carrier I am, and since I'm an agronomist, I guess they don't come to me because they don't think I should be advised, even though I'd like to be advised because I think what I don't know can be found out from them because none of us are the smartest. The big problem is because of this low salary and degradation of these people, many agricultural, agronomists who had excellent knowledge have left this service and gone looking for bread in other branches or in some private companies because really for such little money they don't get paid because they too have families, they have bills and they have to buy this unfortunate car that they have to drive around the field, and nobody really takes care of it. Why are they setting themselves up in the villages? So, in many places it's shut down, the place where the consultant came to at least once or twice a week because they can't pay him for his trip with his car, which is these unfortunate 2 kunas a mile away, and he's just distant from the farmers themselves, so there's some kind of centralization and detour from that village that's falling apart, and like someone said here, older households that don't exactly have time to go to some bigger places to ask for advice. It is said that this law does not require the implementation of this law to provide additional resources, that the established consultative service infrastructure will be used. I am also of the opinion and our club, that there should be an increase in the budget of the advisory service, that it should be possible for these people who are first to encourage the development of agriculture and in contact with the farmer that they have even greater personal income but also to have better means with which they will be able to come to this village, with which they will be able to easily visit this farmer and where they will be able to perform the determination of his acidity of the soil, the most basic things and beyond. Let us remember sometimes operating programmes in cattle, when these advisers were somehow forced to offer an operational programme, to encourage the construction of stables, a farm of pig-goats, which unfortunately, after all this time failed. Those farmers who were urged by the advisory service today are deeply distressed by the ministry and those people personally for urging them to do something that ended in debt, failed, where the entire families split up because of it. And we see in what state our production of milk and cattle today is, and about pig farming, I don't want to talk about it. I believe that this amendment to the law, essentially by changing the name, instead of a assistant, we will get a deputy director who will have another good salary and that the team at the center of the advisory service will be strengthened and teamed up and on the ground will remain the same situation that was so far, so the farmer himself will have nothing better to do, will have nothing more to do and his estate than what we are talking about today will not progress, and not the power of all that spent in the advisory service will give some important effect to Croatian agriculture that is truly in poor condition. Here I appeal to law-makers, they will pass the law one way or another, because on Friday they have a sufficient number of hands, no matter what they say here and tell me some 100 smart ideas, the question is whether they will accept them, the HSS Club will, if the promoter does not think that fishing should be given the name of the advisory service and the amendment when the time comes, because I appeal once again to all of you, encourage this advisory service that it really works, that it really should be in office and that these people who are in the country, that they feel that someone is taking care of them, especially about those advisers, that one of them is keeping an eye on the headquarters from the ministry, that they are those who encourage the development of Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49493	I thank Mr. Lenart. We've got five replicas on his display. The first replica is from Parliament's representative, Sagar Tomislav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49494	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lenart, you have opened a series of issues, which let's say this conditionally concerns the nature of this legislative proposal. However, if we consider only this legislative proposal, it is not relevant to the 2013 amendments, except that it introduces the name forestry and in the sense in which the Proposer has said that, in line with European norms. So with EU legislation and in that part, I don't think this legal 0-proposed proposal itself is questionable. Except in this section, and you mentioned it now, I mentioned to the Secretary of State, in the sense of the Deputy Director. I don't know what it took, it even seems to me that these powers that the advisory service now has are even more precisely defined, but in that 2013 law that was more generally amended by law. Now let's get back to those problems that won't solve this law. I'm sure it's the directors of the advisory service, two things. First, the advisory service helps farmers to withdraw funds from the EU funds. We always act as if, as if our institutions have no connection at all, modern ties, or mobile even, there are development agencies, there are EU funds. The advisory service, if it works, can find houses, abandoned houses today, in many places that can be restored through European funds and even there to be people on the ground, which will then serve these family farms. It can be done if it wants to. And another thing, in the former, in the current, current law on agricultural, advisory services, is that they can also run basic laboratory tests. And in the bill of law that we will have today on agricultural land, the minister will prescribe an authorized laboratory. So why don't you add to the law that authorized labs have in the advisory service. There was revenue from the advisory service, and at the end of the day it could have been cheaper for family farms, self-examination of values.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49495	Thank you very much, counsel. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49496	Dear colleague, you've said well that it doesn't matter what law I've been talking about before and that's what I was going to talk about. I think I've also drawn attention to the fact that this law should be fundamentally different and changed, in a very different direction than this. And I told you what the likeness of this law is to me and this change of name, we'll see through time, it'll confirm whether I'm right or wrong. But now the name of forestry has been introduced here. And when you look at the responsibilities that he has in that law, the agricultural advisory service for agriculture, only four items. And for forestry, eight items. So we're talking about private forests. So we're more important here in this private forest than consulting farmers, because apparently, I'm making a little joke, predicting that agricultural producers will disappear, and their land will heal in private forests, and then people will have to deal with these private forests more. Here's a little bit of fun. I agree that consultants have the opportunity to help EU funds here, but are they competent, can they write these applications? Of course they can't, that's where all the people talk, that some of the houses they deal with, the development agencies around the county and the cities, which are essentially writing these programs. The equipment that they have in their offices, whether it can satisfy, whether they have any kind of interrogations at all, that first field examination is done, is that so. I know it's not, because I know a lot of counselors, these are my colleagues and friends that I'm holding personally and business with. They're very disappointed, how abandoned, downgraded and left to themselves in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49497	Thank you very much. The next replica is from MP Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49498	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Lenart, you pointed out in your statement that advisors are not present enough on the ground and I would say and should commend them that, with such small wages and in such little resources to work on the ground, they are still doing the lion's work, because during the winter they maintain a series of workshops, where they transfer knowledge and new technologies to our agricultural producers. However, there were several ordered measures or compulsory educations for the family farms that had to pass, which they had to pay. I personally disagree that our farmers must pay, 300, 400 kuna education for the use of pesticides or some other purpose. It's a great honor for the mayors of the municipalities, who recognized it, especially the chiefs of the HSS, to lead the municipalities. They saw that our family farms did not have enough resources to do so, so they co-financed these measures, and I think there must be ways for these ordered educations where we comply with EU standards, EU funds must benefit from this and from national sources, so that family farms should not pay for it. And to be absurd bigger, I as a graduate plant protection engineer, had to attend education for the use of pesticides on my economy and often the lecturers, those who did those educations were educated by ourselves who were some and masters of science in this area, and they had to go to that education, so here I think there should be a lot more order to do and go always to meet our OPGs. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49499	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, Agent Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49500	Thanks for the line. Comrade Vlaovic, you've said well that the feeling is that these people are not enough on the ground. This does not mean that they do not have a desire to come to the field, but they do not have opportunities for a variety of reasons. As for obligations, there's what I know about faden, so the calculation of economic size, what kind of enquiries, so people come to hear that some European funds are being shared, so there's a lot of pressure on these people who have to listen to such questions. Unfortunately, I can't help it much, but I can't refuse that peasant because it's mostly people who grew up in the country or came from the villages and worked in the ministry. This is another issue of the advancement of these counselors, some progress after a short time of service, some have to be in the ministry for a long time, and they cannot make any progress. So all this time, regardless of who was in power in the Republic of Croatia who was the headmaster, I'm not talking here about Mr. Tušek or anyone else from before, but about a director who often times over some things can't do what he wants because politics is what it is, and agriculture is in the last place and then so is the advisory service. It is important that the budget is respected, that the funds are spent to be positive in the end, and that part on the ground is simply neglected and irrelevant in the government of the Republic of Croatia. This proves to us the state of the Croatian village in which our producers are and how many of our young people go out, and by adopting laws like this that are little to say so washed up and re-painted or done nothing important changes, nothing changes in production or in agriculture and the situation goes so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49501	Thank you very much. Next replica Križanić Josip. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49502	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Lenart, you said it would be good to place it in terms and fishing, personally I have no objection or anything against it. But I find it strange that you had so many grudges on your mind, especially when we talk about it, it's much more important than the form of a name. Thus, at a time when former Minister Jakovina devastated this ministry to the end, to the ground, no one spoke in a single word about the fact that this service almost existed. And I'm surprised to you as a farmer that you're talking about so much criticism. We have so low a degree of agricultural education that we should all stand for as many people as possible and that is now done in this part of forestry. Whether it'll be in agriculture tomorrow if there's any need for why not, but our agricultural production when we talk about hectares and then production per unit of surface fell below that than it was 30 years ago. Why did that happen? Because our farmers at this level of education don't achieve the results they should. Therefore, who else but an advisory service that is in boots, which are extremely low paid, is another thing that we need to support to get rid of payment status, then who should advise our people for a moment. These people need to be motivated, of course they are important then and the results of that counseling, and we will then control it in a year or two whether it will be the result of them or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49503	Thank you, Mr. Križanić. The answer to the replica, Agent Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49504	Well, here's colleague Križanić, I think if the fishermen listened to you then they were probably bitter about what you said that why now and fishing in that name. And they also want to find that in that name and have a counseling service that will cover them, rather than just writing it down in the text. You mentioned former Minister Jakovina, so I think I've said countless criticisms to the work of former Minister Jakovina, and I believe he was one of the worst ministers in the Republic of Croatia since the existence of the Republic of Croatia and has done very much damage. They also made some other ministers not to mention them here, no matter what party they were on. If that were the case, today's agricultural situation. You're saying that the country's production has fallen because of education, and believe me, these people have been uneducated for many years. It is not because of the lack of education, but because of the indifference, because today when you visit a agricultural culture you have to buy seeds, you have to do the protection of crops from weeds and pests so that they don't fail and then the only thing you can save on is artificial fertilisers and that's why we're falling into the Republic of Croatia, not because our peasants who didn't contact each other and mostly copy technologies if they're nothing else, but indifference is something that causes the decline of production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49505	Mr. Križanić reported a breach of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49506	I just want to tell you my dear colleague that I haven't said one word that I'm against putting in a name...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49507	/Invade Doncic: Just say which article is injured, 238. probably, it is a broad interpretation./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49508	...to not be put in the name of fishing. In my first word, I said I was up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49509	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49510	Now, if I can joke on an article in 505 that isn't even in the Rules of Procedure, I realized that's what you said, if I misunderstood my apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49511	All right, I suggest you go get some coffee together later, all right? The communication misunderstanding was not your microphone at first. It was the only problem, but okay. Thank you very much. ...Mr. Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lenart, you're absolutely right in that part of what you said about wages, and that's what everyone said, so the model to stimulate people to get results and let them have 20, 30 thousand kuna, I'd be happy that the consultant has such a salary if it started at 5,000 kuna to get to 20,000, means he did a good job, but that's not why I answered. You asked one question here in your debate regarding the advisory service and promoting the Lauf barn, and you wondered what happened afterwards. Then she came in 2012 and remember those protests of milkmen and the minister of that time who said the price of milk was not a matter of ministry and minister, that he had nothing to talk about. See, that's the problem that there's no policy, no agriculture strategy that would be continued no matter who the ministers were, and not to change every year how the minister or which policy comes in, and then one policy advocates the OPG, another policy advocates the big economies, and that's where we had that crash, so the consultants were in a very awkward situation because they first motivated people to go there, and then they had to meet with them when they got into trouble. But there's one more thing I don't understand. Since yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture, Col. Vlaovic said that on behalf of the HSS, he supported the law and voted for it, would you now support the law or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49513	Thank you, Representative Hrg. Replication response, colleague Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49514	My colleague Hrg, here I am going to start from the beginning as you started, so you mentioned the Lauf barn, and I didn't mention the Lauf barn, I mentioned the operational program in cattle, it was also a laf barn, there was a barn on the link and there were pig farms, and there were counselors doing a great job. Those involved in this were able to persuade a large number of agricultural family economies to go into the operational programme, to take large loans, to build stables that were overrated, in some ways they were robbed here and today they failed for various reasons, one that you said, that a certain minister said, the price of milk is like this, mainly speaking not of ministers but of lobbys from the dairy industry, not to mention that unfortunate Croatian cattle company that does not deal with cattlemen, but with large lobbys for them. You say one policy favors the OPG, another favors the large, we must understand in Croatian agriculture that there is room for all. For both large and O.P.G.s, bigger, medium, smaller, that one without the other can't and that they're all whole and that everyone has room for life. The problem is the great type of Agrokora who brought us here where he brought us, and who was destroying Croatian agriculture because he dictated the price and the purchase and the repromation and the services and I don't know what not, and everyone else had to follow it, and we agricultural producers had to suffer and manage to survive them, not to say, or know what to call them, and as far as we came, we came to the collapse of Agrokor, and something that the entire Croatian public would have to do, i.e. small taxpayers will one day be remedied with great effort, but unfortunately it won't be worth anything to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49515	Thank you very much. And the last replica of President Mader Mladen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49516	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lenart, we all know the role of the advisory service, the education of farmers, but I think what our agriculture is saying is that the question is who will they be able to educate in the country at all. To educate, unfortunately, these young people who are, they're already quite well educated, and these 70 years, I don't think they're going to need education. My colleague Hrg had just taken away from me about the education around the construction of a Lauf barn which had simultaneously educated the good farmers to go at the price of milk of 4 kuna and at the end when that price of milk was no longer 4 kunas, when it was below 4 kunas, they had failed, so they might need education, and at the same time those who educated farmers at the construction of the Lauf barn are now in quite another, says you didn't have a circled household, probably a colleague of the Hrg thinks about the same person who educated in that area and now he's gone. And that's why I think those counselors might need some education sometime.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49517	Thank you very much to the representative in response to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49518	Thank you, Vice President. So here I would go back a little bit to the price of the milk you mentioned, the price of milk means not only the price of the milk you get, the problem is a huge cost of production to meet the standards required in Croatia for milk and probably stricter than in most parts of Europe, and believe me, I know a company that works somewhere 2,000 hectares, has its own warfare, has a farm of milk cows or has it because it's in the liquidation process. So those who produce food on such a large estate for themselves, means circled, with state-of-the-art machines, with state-of-the-art technologies, with agronomists, can't have a profitable production of milk. So I'm asking you how the O.P.G. here can't even get in Mr. Tušek with all his advisors, can't help because it's not a problem with him. I've looked back for a while and paid, I'm not saying that anyone's salary is big, only those who create politics, and it's not the director of the advisory service, it's the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia must really understand that this service is necessary but in the bottom of a completely different form, light. Once I was in Styria, their Chamber of Agriculture has 350 experts from agriculture. Only in Styrian. And we have 277 total employees in the advisory service, and we have far bigger and stronger agriculture, we have Slavonia, we have vineyarding, we have fruit growing, so all the branches of production, we have such a small number of experts. Whether to return this advisory service to the chamber, whether to leave it in such a work is now a matter of discussion, but there must be a model for these people to be adequately rewarded, stimulated to work in the field and to educate not only what is mandatory education through the advisory service organised by the director, but also to organise themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49519	Thank you very much. Now intervention on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49520	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my word for it one more time. Greetings to all MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Here, and I would like first of all to point out that the new proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service is based on what is also in the Ministry of Agriculture, but in the advisory service itself means that it is finally analysed that greater visibility of agricultural advisers, consultants on the ground and that they fulfil their basic tasks, which is to raise the higher expertise of farmers with an emphasis, as already pointed out here on family farms. Soon, the Ministry of Agriculture will deliver to the Government on a proposal for a law on family agricultural holdings, as the first time the law is passed at EU and Croatia will be the leader of the importance of family agricultural economies, and it is the advisers and the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service who will have the task to devote themselves to modernising family holdings, increasing field expertise and greater visibility on the ground. I would not agree with the fact that the offices of advisory services are being closed, it was said and I am glad to finally talk about Croatia's agricultural and forestry advisory service. Because over the past 4.5 years, it has not been talked about and when a new law is passed that is in line with EU legislation and that opens up opportunities for farmers, to develop, to modernise into their economies, then this is an opportunity to talk now, and not all these years have been talked about. Unfortunately, when the advisory service was demoted, the advisers marginalized, and by this law, that is, the statue that has been amended teachingly on the proposal of a new law, allows for greater efficiency, visibility of the advisory service on the ground, in the function of saying an increase in income primarily of family farms and then of all other farmers. As far as fishing links are concerned, of course, apart from the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy, it is the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service. In the area of forestry, these are private forest intermediaries, I have not seen any proposal except for that, the essential proposal except for the formal one to change the name. It should therefore be clarified that, in the part of the consultation, in line with the common policy of regularity, the emphasis is primarily placed on fishermen, but on those they produce, means whether in the part of freshwater fishing, whether in the part of marine fisheries. Sadly, that number is not large, but they are dedicated to the advisory service. And the fishermen are the breeders of fish. According to our information and knowledge, and for your information, you have been associated for many years through your Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which represent the interests of these associations, i.e. fishermen on the ground. The Croatian Agricultural-Forest Advisory Service opens up the possibility of greater commitment to fishermen, but I say in this special part of the formal name change, we have not heard any essential activity that would be devoted to fishermen. But we, the new proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service, certainly make it possible. Here it was just to explain certain legal proposals that are not cosmetic. Because you yourself, you've found most of the MPs here in the debate, all the shortcomings and disadvantages in the past tense. Emphasis on administrative activities of advisory services that have been adopted in the past period of derogation and preparation for Croatia's EU accession. And so, at that time, the service was as neglected as it was and was not an emphasis on agricultural counselling or counselling to fishermen, to fishermen, or to private forest intermediaries, as high as it should have been and as much as expected to be within the framework of the agricultural consultation. Here's just another fact, that as you stated, new amendments to the statutes were made possible means that the advisory service would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49521	Thank you very much. At Mr. Majdak's State Secretary's presentation, we have three replicas. He's the first one to represent Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49522	I thank the Vice President. I'm glad that part of my debate came to the secretary of state and maybe some of it fit in. My debate wasn't about fighting some political options, but I really think that this service has to change. They're all responsible, all the political options that she's in. And I hope that now it will finally be understood that something needs to be changed and that this debate that I'm having here in the Parliament will lead to it. I don't see any important changes under this law right now. But I hope the law comes to a further debate, so we'll see what else is going to change, but I beg you, here's to looking outside politically, because agriculture is of interest to all of us. In a catastrophic state and every cube in that production, which is also the advisory service is very important for survival, not only for development but for survival. We are already slowly talking about the survival of Croatian agriculture, by being devastated in different ways and from different lobbies. On the other hand, that youth, especially from Slavonia, goes abroad, Germany and the white world, because they simply realize that there is no bread here for them. And we see that the people of the finished orchards cut, the long-term plantations, along with the crop because they have no one to sell it to, and I'm testifying to you from my experience in my production to produce, as far as vegetable cultures are concerned, and then I don't know where I'm going to go with them, so let's just say we're two tons of melons, because it's a fast-running slave. That part of the market should also be dealt with by a small advisory service. So it's a tragic situation in Croatian agriculture and I ask you all to try to change something together to the benefit of those people who are in the country, I won't say in the rural area is that I think it's a modern word, I still call it a village, and most of us came from the village because we have roots from the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49523	Thank you. The answer to the line, Mr. Majdak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49524	Thank you. Dear Representative Lenart. Not only agriculture here, as I have said, agriculture and forestry and fisheries and rural and sustainable development will be the task of consultants in accordance with the new Law on Croatia, the Agriculture and Forestry Advisory Service.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49525	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49526	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Yes, I said on the board will support the club HSS's adoption of this law, but we want to make it even better and we want to make it even more relevant to the advisory service and, of course, we also represent the interests of fishermen in Croatia, especially those from freshwater fisheries that are in a difficult position in Croatia and in the opinion of many of them, and I will give you the reasons why and why we have asked for the inclusion and fishing in the name of advisory services to strengthen the profession and within the advisory fisheries service because, as you yourself said on the board, there are six advisers in charge of the fisheries field. This is far too little compared to the capacities and opportunities that Croatia has in the development of freshwater fisheries in particular fishing. And it is regrettable that 2016 abolished the incentive for freshwater fisheries per kilogram of fish produced in the 6th month 2016, and that there are also debts to freshwater fishing from 2014 on outstanding incentives. It has been promised to be paid by the end of this year and the differences and debts, so my question will my question be paid even when? And the fact is that the eco-rent that protects the eco-system where fishermen are not allowed to treat fish-eating birds should have paid them compensation for the same, has not been paid, while, for example, in Germany and other countries it has been paid. Why is it not paid in Croatia because our fishermen are thus neglected and I think the advisory service should work with them to improve their production, but also the government and the ministry to pay them what they owe them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49527	Thank you very much. And the last replica is from Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49528	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State. I am pleased that you have explained that this legislative proposal is only one of the preconditions because it depends on how it works and how this advisory service behaves. It is also good that you said in which direction this advisory service should move and work. Because today, without the adoption of new knowledge, without the adoption of new technologies, we simply cannot be competitive. And talk about tourism as the most prosperous economic branch that brings so much traffic, if you don't eat Croatian tomatoes there, if you don't eat Croatian steak then tourism won't be an export branch. At the moment when we can eat Croatian tomatoes there, eat Croatian steak, then this tourism will certainly be an export product. And that is why these advisory services have to help people on the ground. Let's not forget colleagues and colleagues that over the last few years of the state budget, we've invested more than 30 billion kuna in various incentives, let's look at where our agriculture is today. The second thing, to talk about fruit growing and vegetables, not to make coolers where Croatian farmers will put that apple when it is sold when it is on the market of 6.7 kuna, then they can be competitive, but if it is sold now on the market when it is kuna and a half, then two cannot possibly be competitive. And secondly, the tragedy is how many of those industrial apples that aren't consummated by the collapse, and at the same time how many of us have plants to process fruits and vegetables that unfortunately don't work. And that's all the things to talk about, and as something's called, it's less important. Let's set up a system that works, which will help our people, our farmers, and then we'll easily upgrade that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49529	I thank Mr. Shuker. We're still going through the club debates. Next Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU and distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49530	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us the bill, it is a law that has only 21 articles, and when you get such a proposal to expect it to go relatively simply, but it has opened up a series of topics and dilemmas that I want to talk about here. Any legal proposal should be viewed with several aspects. One aspect is what this law looks like, the other aspect is what we have on the ground and what improvements will be made by that law and the third aspect is to see why this law is even and what is the meaning of its adoption. Of course, the first aspect of you have a decently structured law, what it has, what activities there are, and we are talking about agriculture, forestry and fishing. And that, of course, raises the question why and in the title if the advisory service for agriculture and forestry is also why it is not and fishing, because it seems to me that when you place an activity in the name of the service that you are then giving importance to that activity. So if we want fishing to be important, then we need to put it in terms. Then that's where we watch what we have in the field. We can have the most excellent law possible, we can all be affirmative of this law, but the situation in the field people enforce these laws. This law that you have better people, the better you have when that law will be better enforceable and absolutely more acceptable. Here in the law and says that what applies will help in economic development, climate change, business, and we discussed climate change today and all five of them. And then a little bit into history. We had a farm service, an advisory service, we had a forest service, and then in 2012, we decided to have an advisory service, so we changed one law, and then we have a new law again in 2017, where we have a new agricultural forest advisory service. And then, not my colleagues who have blond hair like me and somehow get angry, and then a blonde now really and officially, wondering why. Because what's going to be between the other technical results of this change, the technical results of this change will be, we'll have to have new, so new records or new titles, so there'll be new records where they are, and then we'll have new memos but that's our specificity, you know, there's no this country progress, we start over and we forget what happened before and life starts with us and ends, and that's where we'll be referred by the time we're in Parliament, they're before that, but we'll do that, or this next one will. And then we have what else is going to change, well, new solutions are going to be written. And here we come to a little problem, so we're going to have a new director, which I will absolutely represent is that the minister should choose his associates, answer for the portfolio and choose his associates and, as I mention the minister, very interesting. The relationship between the executive and us in the Parliament. So, on the current clock is the prime minister and all the ministers and prime ministers then say I can do anything, I'm afraid ministers can, because there is no decent custom for ministers to come to the Parliament and defend the law. That's what Minister Zdravko Maric does. Otherwise Minister Zdravko Marić is all, most likely because of course he is the finance minister, so we prefer to attack him, but remember Minister Zdravko Maric sits there all day, goes outside, phones, but he is there with his laws. The other ministers didn't, so the assumption is that there are so many state secretaries that they could change them, I'm very interested. From this law and the Law on Agricultural Land, it is one of the key laws of the Minister of Agriculture and is interested in whether or not they will be State Secretarys here, because it tells you in favour of how much the minister appreciates parliamentary representatives, which is the ratio of the executive authority to the legislative authority. Ministers, I agree, there are some amendments and complements either on the way or they are prevented so they are not there, but when there are important laws, let them be in that work and indeed Minister Zdravko Maric will sit there from morning till evening and will not let the laws from his portfolio that he is not there, and everyone else. But I'm going back to what I started with, and I'm going to end it, and new solutions are being written, and he's going to be the new director, and he's going to be the new headmaster. Is that the meaning of this law? We could make an amendment and supplementing the existing law, install in it everything that is important, so in terms of conduct, we would discuss what is on the ground and the terrain must be better, but here will write new solutions, the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU will not hold lotterys. We really won't keep the lottery in that sense, we have a chance to see how many state secretarys we have, how many new assistants there will be, how many new directors, deputy directors, new ones will be written for all employees, and I'm sure there will be some changes, I'm not sure that's necessary. What it takes for people on the ground to do better, to better educate and whether the service will be called one way or another, they will not work better, they will work better as a first, if you financially stimulate them, as a second, if you better team them up with experts and as a third if they are on the ground. You're the worst when you work and you live in one tower, you think life is somewhere else. Life is on the ground, that's what they have to be in the field, solve the problem right now, look at our agricultural situation. I do have some kind of, I take care of that space, it's kind of a call to me, sometimes when you have time, open up on the pages of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, it's an icon called ISPU, an information system of spatial planning. And there you have Croatian tickets from '68, we needed it... Compare the '68. from today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What they show is that Croatia was agricultural in '68, and as today, it's not just houses, houses are much smaller, there's a lot more agriculture and agricultural surfaces going on, so you can see exactly what it is in '68. to date, in Croatia, happened or happened. The form of the law correct, it would be good if fishing were already there, so to show what we want, what kind of law we already know and we have the opportunity to see, but what we're sure, the result of this law will be the new director, will be the new deputy director and, of course, will be new solutions for the new chiefs, and have the opportunity to see what's going on, we won't stick to this lottery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49531	Thank you very much. At the presentation of Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash we have three replicas, the first replica is from the representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49532	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, I agree with you first and foremost, I will commend the minister, he comes here without diminishing, of course, the expertise and knowledge and importance of the secretary of state but it would be good if the minister were here and for this law and for the next law, the Law on Agricultural Land, because we were convinced that he was not even on the board when this law was being represented, so it is important that the ministers come and defend their laws. First of all, and because of this key question, I've asked the secretary of state today, which is why now the deputy director, that's actually what you're now wondering, why this perception of the public towards the public administration, and on the other hand we have and here and a colleague was just saying, we have people on the ground who aren't actually enough. Those who are in the field, who work directly with people, are few, and we are introducing a deputy director. And what's most important in your debate, which I must point out, seemed very important to me when you said the situation was actually on the ground. And the advisory service won't solve those problems. That's impossible, because what's going on. Here, for example. The former picks, take a dot that has 1,000 acres of land, these are small picks, agricultural... Today, a man who enjoys the country, who owns the state and calls himself a family farm. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be much better if, before these laws, we had passed a law on the family holding, to finally define what a family agricultural holding is and how it is possible that out of 1,000 hectares, the family holding, and at one time at least 10 technologists were employed on the same surface. They were highly educated people who cared about the success of the economy. And today, these people, I think someone from the advisory service comes in so they don't even let them in. Not because, you don't get into it, maybe they're doing great, but this profession, this way, won't come to the profession to say this on the right door to improve Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49533	Nice. Replication response, colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49534	Thank you very much. Indeed, when a bill of law comes like this, it opens up a series of topics and dilemmas. I've been in Zagreb for many years, but I'm really from the town of Bjelovar and I have to admit, I remember my high school days very well, and I remember well, let's just say that there was an oil tail around Bjelovar and that we who high schoolers actually went to help, worked. And I remember those technologists. Things change. So there's always a chance you have and you should definitely take advantage of every opportunity to mention climate change, things change, they change with us. But somehow there should be a step forward with these changes. And really use every opportunity to say that we miss the frame. We lack quality staff in the state administration, we lack quality staff in the advisory service no matter what she calls herself for a simple reason, which people, of course, go out or get better somewhere or learn something here, and then change jobs. Therefore, we really need to use every opportunity to say that we are crying for a quality shot. For the better the fit will be, the better the mark they leave in space. When it comes to agriculture and forestry, they leave a trail related to agriculture and the forest. In Croatia 47% is under the forest. It's part of the private woods. I'm, like, I'm a grandfather and I own a forest in the area of Bjelovar-Bilogian County and I know what problems we have, after our 7 grandchildren split up. Well, then we have sanitary cuts and everything. And we could use such a single user of a counseling service because you have to ask someone something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49535	Thank you. Next replica, Mr. Babic Ante. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49536	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Mrak Taritash, you have also problems with the name of these advisory services, but with this problem of name you have spoken not only about the change of records, memoranda, but also about the adoption of new solutions. Anything that is good and that can in any way help both the service and the farmers would at least be problematicd by that name. And I think it's a minor expense if that's all right. But they said something else about ministers and defending the law. I remember you defending your laws in your term, in fact, it was important for you to hear the opinion of the MPs. And actually to be in a direct interaction with them, to improve your laws, which you haven't always done. I understand that, but you are aware that in our debates we are actually here in the Croatian Parliament, we are actually always talking about these present ones, we forget the former from the context in which you said you advocated that the minister chooses his associates. I agree with that, and I think it's always good and that we should really appreciate this minister's work, according to his program, the programme of the party that brought him here, not whether some associate and his wish are for us, or for you at that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49537	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49538	Thank you very much, dear colleague. All the laws that came from my portfolio in my term, I sat there and defended. Defended for several reasons. One reason was because I cared about those laws. The second reason was because I showed this respect to my colleagues from the Ministry who did it all. And the third reason was that you cared about hearing what your fellow MPs were going to say, no matter what side they were sitting on, and I respected this institution, this Parliament, and I thought it was a minimum of what I could do. And that I think, I don't think the minister should be, of course, on his way. I don't think that every amendment and addition of the law, because some of them are more consistent and should be. However, when the first reading of an important law is, therefore, I am now very gentle and the important law is from the Ministry of Agriculture, surely the Agricultural Land Act, that it is minimum that the minister must be there. I understand that he's been prevented, that he has to leave, but at the opening show, or that he's showing up behind clubs, he should be. So that's one thing. And secondly, the minister himself is responsible for his portfolio and selects his associates. However, the consequences of these panels, as a consequence of these memoranda, will be the consequences of new solutions and that solution for all other officials. And surely there will be some chiefs who will no longer be chiefs, some who will be. And that, actually, when you're in the state administration, then the state administration has those sayings for you, I can't do as little work as you can pay me, so she says, now these are coming, so I'm going to come back for the last year, like in a lera, so let's see who's coming. These are the messages we send and they're not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49539	Thank you very much. And the last replica, representative Sabina the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Mrak Taritash, you have looked back at your presentation and the needs that will result from the adoption of this law, which is a new systematization and, of course, new employment. Why do I say that, of course? Because obviously there's not much that blooms in this government, you don't see the results of the work, but when we talk about the advent of the administration, about hiring relatives, donors, friends and godfathers, then there's a lot of things going on from a dead end. So we have a case where you donate the HDZ campaign to the very Ministry of Agriculture 25 thousand kuna and then become the head of one sector. So then you have a situation in Croatia that you also change the government's regulation in July with a complete concept of providing employment space only in the principal's office slightly less than ten new employees etc., etc. These are just some of the examples in the Ministry of Agriculture and in the agencies or institutions that come out of it. There are likely examples yet, and it is unfortunate that all these agencies that are under the Ministry of Agriculture are not dealing with what should be dealt with among other things, so Croatia introduces products of poorer quality, at much higher prices than other EU Member States, food products. But it's not the agencies that do it, it's the research that has to do, let's say, a colleague of Biljana Borzana and get to that knowledge because right here, we have a desert growing administration and employees doing things I don't know what. Unfortunately, they do not protect the interests of Croatian citizens, but they are very much protecting HDZ interests and caring for the employment of their members and donors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49541	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49542	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I do not have this knowledge that you have. I'm really like one here's the declared blonde wondering why we're changing the name now because we know that when we change the name we change the records, so the old ones aren't worth it, so we're changing the memo, and then when I came, I knew why we were changing. When we don't know how to get rid of some people, and they're busy or they're not answering us for this or that reason, then we change the name of the institution. I worked for a long time at the state administration, and when you watched, we no longer have work books, I was, say, one period in one body of the state administration, and I had five seals because the titles were changing, and I went through that. Change the name you need to get a new solution and with new solutions someone rewards you or doesn't reward you, someone likes you or doesn't like you. What smart and over-states do that we need to look up to is a certain attitude that you have. So you have experts who are experts in this area and they know that whether they come left, right, white, red, green, orange they'll do their job, they'll be able to advance on some of the hodograms that they are and don't do what I'm already doing when my colleagues answer. Indeed, we know that they work by, say, half a year to six months are on the apartment by and we don't know who's coming, and then when we see how we adapt to those other conditions. And we can discuss laws here, we can really talk about state secretaries and assistants and directors, what we need through laws, through everything else to protect is to protect attitude, to protect people. People work no matter who they are, and in a ram way we don't protect them, but we put them in the wind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49543	Thank you very much. The next is on behalf of the SPD club representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49544	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Look, you can't give Todorov money from rural development and give him suspicious credits, be against the Agrokor Research Commission, two years in power without any farming development strategy, and keep calling your ex. I don't see any concern for farmers from all of this, but I would remind you of this advisory service we're talking about. This advisory service was pulled out of the Agricultural Chamber in March 2012 and then we lifted the membership fee required for that chamber. You want it back, and I assume it's the beginning of your famous strategy Project Slavonia. That way you'll lose the few farmers you've never lost before. I will remind you once again, in March 2012, the Croatian Government made a decision on the advisory service. At the same time, a parafiscal imposition related to the general use of forest functions was reduced by almost 50%. In the light of the law, it was then said that the number of employees was in 2011. 246 in 2012 The 240th budget was €38.7 million, and in 2012. 39 million kuna. Why am I saying all this? Now, in the light of the law, there's not a word about the number of employees and the budget. Some will say it's in another document, but this is too serious a law not to stand in it. There is not a word of revenue from the already mentioned parafiscal intrusion, not a word. It is not mentioned in any word that in the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, the advisory service can use some of the EU funds for rural development through two measures prepared by the SDP government. According to the Rural Development Programme's financial plan for these two measures, the total funds amounting to around 30m euros for the period I have already mentioned are planned, so this is about 4.2m euros a year or so. I would ask you, how many resources did the advisory service withdraw and how many farmers advised or trained, what number of OPGs did they help at all? Many colleagues have already mentioned this part about fishing, it is indeed unclear but I think that colleague Mrak-Taritash explained very clearly, after all why the name is changed, but when you have changed the name when you want to do so then put that fishing on. I would ask another question, it is currently in the public debate of the Law on Forestry, whether there is a possibility that this law of yours is now in conflict with that law, whether we should have waited, after all, for the Law on Forestry because the people of the field say that the advisory service in this section of forestry is not doing its part of the job but that it is still the work of the people of the Croatian Forests. So let's see what we can do with that. And finally, there's not much to say, we're going to support this law, these aren't malicious remarks, these are just suggestions with some reminders because you've been reminding me of a period of four years, it's amazing how Tihomir Jakovina turns out to be guilty of everything, and you've been in power for two years now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49545	At the presentation of counterpart Tomic, there was no replica, so now on behalf of the HNS club, Assembly representative Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49546	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. Right here, they all looked back on the name that doesn't have in its work and fishing but it's added to forestry. In our view, this is one of the non-essential things, i.e. it is not so important that we have a debate on this because it is an important part of the circle, and in Article 4, we have at the point of first expert advice, instruction and promotion of knowledge in the area of agriculture, fisheries and forestry. So, this is what Croatia's agricultural advisory service has been doing so far, whether it will now have forestry yet, whether fishing will be added, is really important what it does. That this is a very important service all of our farmers know because the Croatian Advisory Service, i.e. the Advisory Service, has been present in the country, in the rural area for a long time. It is also recognised by the EU. So what they're doing right now is very, very important to our farmers. It is noted that there is the structure of education, that we have only 5% of formally educated agricultural producers, but we really have educated agricultural producers and we must not neglect other agricultural producers who really achieve good results, regardless of their lack of formal education, they have a long-standing practical experience that has been achieved and their results with the help of exactly this advisory service. Therefore, it may not be bad where it says here in point 3. The advisory service shall organise and conduct education and training in the fields of agriculture, fisheries and forestry. As a rule, these are non-formal educations for which no confirmation is obtained, no paper, to see how lectures are organised, or to obtain the conditions for this to be formal in order to obtain confirmation of the completed degree of that professional qualification. This is also very important in applying to certain competitions and many other things because these people really have experience practically, and they will very easily get this part and get that piece of paper. I know this can't be done by the advisory service itself, I know that it needs to be coordinated and agreed with other ministries, but I think they own a professional staff and that the most present in all parts of these very rural areas. Of these 120 offices that operate in the Republic of Croatia, these 270 people who provide advisory information or advise our farmers, and now, in fact, they trust these people. Our farmers trust these people, of course there are successful and less successful advisory services everywhere. But we can't leave everything to end up in the enthusiasm of individuals, as much as anyone is willing to give information, as much as anyone is willing to work in the field, there's been a lot of talk today, and about the price of these people's work. Only if someone is satisfied, but not only with the work they're doing, because all those people who work in the advisory service are satisfied with their work, but they must be fully satisfied that they can provide the maximum of our OPGs. There were a lot of words and how much they help these people on the ground in doing administrative work, it's true that they take a lot of time, here's the information that we've heard that somewhere 30% of them deal with filling out various forms or things like that. But if we go back to what, in the rural area that they're OPG carriers, unfortunately, they're still older people. We have younger ones, but they need help, too. And when we look at them, it's the first contact, they come into the office from that one, please fill me in on this agricultural register, look at the ARCOD, look at this, write this down, this stock report and that, and it means a lot to them, and for that it's important that these people are further educated even though they really are, they think they're professional but they're more stimulating and they're still helping our farmers. The HNS Club will support this law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49547	Thank you very much. At the presentation of our colleague Makar we have one replica, representative Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49548	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Macar, I have listened carefully and it is nice to hear that they have advisory services that advise our farmers, which is about as much as I have heard 270. It's good, thinks it's okay, but our farmers, you know that Slavonia and beyond Croatia, people have known how to produce it before, but now some things that are used to any kind of chemical means should certainly be educated. But the problem is each other. People do it all, produce it, but they don't know how to sell it or where to sell it. I would prefer that Croatian society turned to finding 270 more people to help our farmers and craftsmen sell our goods to our Adriatic. That man who's got 50 or 100 pigs and no matter what, producing I don't know how many corn wheat or anything else or vegetables, he's having trouble selling. How we can protect the sale of our products, and this should give advice to the village and try to organize that at some safe prices next year you can buy some product. So there's no wandering around and let's be clear about agriculture once a year what's going to be the price of a product. We have been on the market so long that we can assess and see and give advice to the farmer what to produce and can safely sell. We certainly produce, but our sales are always questionable and prices are always questionable, because certain structures of people, how well they give birth then lower prices, if the drought is then they can be raised, so I guess we should pay when there is a lot, that this farmer is rich and pays all the costs and processing he worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49549	Thank you, Agent Muscle. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49550	Thank you very much. Comrade Misic, so here you and I both know that this time we live in is a time of market economy. However, that peasant must not be left to himself is true. There are certain efforts to organise production and sales. First of all, I see an exit in agricultural cooperatives. Here's from the local community where I come from, I must also commend the mayor and all the services in the city that have worked hard and organized assistance in the establishment of a farming cooperative that is now operating for the second year and I can tell you from the talks with our agricultural producers that they are expressing their satisfaction. Because they have an organized production and they have a secure ransom, that every time it's possible to set all the prices, they certainly won't, because as I mentioned. The economy is like that, the market we've defined ourselves for, we don't have the production plan we used to be. We said we didn't want it anymore, but the advisory service is primarily there to advise in part of the production, and of course it points to a way that easier to place its products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49551	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates now. A fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49552	Thank you, Vice President. What does this law get you? You get a new name, and that means new boards on buildings and you get new leadership. So the new director, the new deputy director, that's what farmers will get. The advisory service has become so far, under a different name, my God, but it existed. We should see the results of this advisory service, since it was established so far. It's gone, there's no analysis, where's the evaluation? What good has their existence been to date? Who did they help? The agricultural end of Slavonia, once, in socialism, was a cereal, peasants were rich, they were relatively satisfied. Today Slavonia is empty. Young people are leaving. Why are they doing this? They don't see their perspective in that agricultural area. So what kind of counsellors were they not better advised to stay on their property than to go to Ireland? So why don't we talk about these counselors and that advisory service? I think it'd be better if they weren't here. Perhaps fewer people would leave Slavonia if they had already shared such counsel. Let's just say, openly, if that institution was bad, if the counselors were doing well, let's think about whether or not they were necessary and needed. And what they did and what they didn't do to prove they needed them. I think that we in Croatia have inflation of institutions and these institutions that are our own purpose. They're not becoming for anyone else, they're becoming for themselves. Here, Prime Minister Plenkovic, gathered 151 officials, which is 25 more than Milanovic had and even twice as many, as the specimen Jadranka Kosor had. Why? Is he in need of such officials? And what do they justify their existence for? Which justifies the new employment of the new officials. An increase in the state's apparatus, I think, but completely unnecessary. Except for the incarceration of the personnel of the ruling parties. And here we have a hearing of 270 employees. So this will probably be an opportunity to catch up with the new 250 HDZ or HNS members in these advisory places. To make another cleanup for those who were there before and to get 250 new jobs. So instead of working on a reduction of institutions, we unnecessarily increase them. I think a serious analysis should ask whether we are, and when I say that I mean my ruling group because at the time of our government, the advisory service was separated from the Agricultural Chamber, was that a smart decision? So let's analyze it because what's the purpose of the agricultural chamber? So that it helps farmers, not only about the organisation of production but what a colleague said about the organisation of product placements, connects green and blue Croatia, so it is one of the basic tasks of the Agricultural Chamber, so what will exist both. So let's just think about it that way, to put away something that's obviously proven so far that it hasn't worked out so well, that it hasn't worked at all. We cut the number of employees in that state sector, cut the costs, put them back and do their job there, or at least let them try to do it. Every evicted Slavonac from Slavonia their shame, the shame of each of those 270 employees and there should come before the Croatian Parliament each of those 270 to explain what they were doing, to explain the name and name of everyone who left Slavonia. In short, I think that the peasants are this law but completely unnecessary, nor is this advisory service helping them, nor will this amended one help them more. The fishermen that I'm not talking about, you've completely forgotten them, like they don't exist. So knowingly you wrote a new bill that you were on fishermen but completely forgotten, there are no fishermen in Croatia for you. But the fact that you forgot about fishermen shows what is the fundamental intensity of this law, not to help someone, but to catch more HDZ and HNS personnel is the only purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49553	Thank you very much, Agent Stazic. We have three replicas on his display. The first replica is from counsel Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49554	Your Honor, Vice President. And so, fellow Stazic, you would return us to the time of Minister Tihomir Jakovina, a well-known and excellent businessman from his neighborhood who now enjoys the laurels of his hard work as a minister in your ministry who has arranged it so well for us in agriculture that we see his results today and we enjoy them now. So you don't want anything to change in the way of what we're going to do, and we're going to put an end to the Commission to investigate the victims of war and porn, so let nothing be known, and let nothing new. This same Jakovina of yours had an associate in his work, the head of the Croatian Forests tried to establish a company of competitors to the Croatian forests. So this same Jakovina came to my village in my Jarmin and the last 30 acres of state land that we have at our disposal he put his paw on it with his associate from Osatina's company where he wanted to take those 30 acres of himself and his friend, the last 30 acres that we could give to some of our young people who were going out and now that's the process in progress. This same Jakovina annulled the tender that was called in the municipality and then he made a unilateral decision, which the DORH should also be declared, it is still in the process. It was a way of working your minister and your professional services that had been impaling for a short time I don't know what. And I know a case from Marcusica where one official also got 30 acres of return that fed one grandmother.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49555	Thank you very much, Mr. Culey. Time's up. Thank you. Reply to the replica of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49556	I... Jakovina did not mention or say that anything would be returned at a time when the minister was Tihomir Jakovina, I was talking about the time of socialism, then Tihomir Jakovina was not a minister. At the time when peasants in Slavonia lived and did not move from Slavonia, and they had passports they could go to Ireland and Germany. They didn't leave because they were better off in Slavonia. They were better off than now that this new minister has been in power for some time. But when you mention Tihomira Jakovina, then let me just say that this man paid a tax that you and your family didn't pay the state you love so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49557	Next replica of counterpart Ivan Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stazic, from what we've heard from you, you're crying for old times' sake. Yeah, you said you didn't mention Jacob's, but that's why you looked back on our prime minister, on politics, on infatuation, etc. Which is very much at the border of solid insult. But I'll say this, instead of putting emphasis on today's topic and directly contributing to this bill, we again, again and again, to who knows which way we return to unnecessary and useless debates. Were you so concerned when the said minister hired unprofessional and incompetent "experts"? the devastation of agriculture, and all the media wrote about it, began at the time when eu funds began to be favoured and destroyed, so the advisory service directly existed on the ground. Do you know that 90 senior advisors have been demoted and their salary has been cut 25%, was it a motivational approach or approach to strengthen the advisory service or to do so? By harmonising with the eu provisions and more clearly defining the part-round of the activities of meeting the objectives of the service in order for farmers to get professional assistance and become competitive, it seems to me to be the essence of this bill. This law should first and foremost be seen as a return to dignity and the role of the field counseling service, not as a reference to layoffs and the sharing of layoffs. First of all, we say whether it helps the farmer or it tends to, in this way, our colleagues, we do not contribute to development and improvement but to insults, divisions and sneezing. Here you are, begging for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49559	Thank you, thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49560	You say I cry for old times' sake, I don't cry, the Slavonic peasants cry. They're crying because they were better at the time I'm talking about, they were better at it than they are now. Ask them, I don't cry. I'm here as much as you are, a congressman and I have my salary, and they have nothing to live on. They have to move out. So much for who's crying about old times. And apparently they have reason to cry under this government and they'll probably have even more reason to cry and move out as long as there are such parliamentary deputies who don't pay taxes, and here they report for replicas. And of that tax, for example. And those peasants need to get something. Data on a 151 employee is not an insult, that's a fact. Prime Minister Plenkovic has 151. It's not an insult, it's a fact. And the last one about Minister Jakovina. It's a minister during which redecorating peasants did not export tractors to the streets as they did years earlier. They didn't block the roads with tractors like they did years ago. In all the four years he was a minister, it didn't happen. The fishermen didn't protest, it was such a minister. He was obviously a peasant, he didn't fit you because he wasn't from your options, my God, your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49561	Thank you very much. And the last replica of Representative Roscic Dragica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49562	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic, you have at the beginning of your debate stated that it would be necessary when laws like this are passed that there is a full analysis of the work of advisory services and I agree, it is not bad that we always have it, that we have those reports that advisory services are doing. But in your debate, somehow you have reached one conclusion, or analysis, and you have said that advisory services serve nothing and that they directly influence that young people are going to Ireland and that we need to reduce that apparatus because they are not using anyone. Since 2012, I've been working with farmers in the area of 100 and a half km of square, which is the work of 3 advisory services, if I can say one word, local or regional analysis, I can tell you that without these advisory services probably eighty OPGs or agricultural economies would be extinguished because indeed these advisory services help them daily and stop them from shutting down their OPGs, teach them how to transfer and know-how to their children and that they continue to develop agricultural economies, so here, I would like to express my opinion in my opinion that you, in your analysis, have briefly concluded that these services do not serve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49563	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49564	You're right, I was talking casually. I was talking casually because we don't have any data under this law, we don't have any evaluations. So the data is what you bring out from your own personal experience. And all right, you say 10 would have shut down if it hadn't been for that service, 10 would have shut them down. And I ask, why did they, or a dozen, and why would 200 others have been extinguished during their existence? Of the 200 they saved 10. So is that the reason for their existence? But these 200, as I said, I said flat-out, I know there's a lot of them. I know there's a lot of them, and I know the fact that we all know that people are moving out, they're leaving. Well, they're not leaving because they're fine. That's why they're leaving. They're looking for a better life. For 700 years, they've dreamed of their country and now that they've got it, they've got to get out of it because they can't live in it. That's what I'm talking about. And we're changing the names of the advisory services, and we take it as our representation job, so we protect the interests of these peasants, to change the name of one service that the question of who it helped.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49565	We're done with individual debates. For the final word on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Majdak. I'm just going to interrupt you a little bit, so the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, it's an honor to welcome the group of delegations of the Kuwait-Croatian interparliamentary group of friendships that works within the National Assembly of the state of Kuwait and she is on a working visit to the Republic of Croatia, so let's welcome them. Thank you very much. Excuse me, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49566	Everything's fine, thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. First of all, I would like to thank you for today's debate on the draft Act on the Croatian Agricultural and Forestry Advisory Service. Here is the director and my littleness we have recorded a large part of the meanings of your comments and we will try all that is constructively incorporated if it contributes to the improvement of the bill itself. I will repeat the basics, meaning, the intentions of the motions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Resorient Ministry in the adoption of this law, which is the establishment of a advisory system that will provide assistance to users in the assessment of the results of their agricultural economies, and the establishment of the necessary activity to improve them. Above all, with the aim of modernising, concrete, innovation, market orientation and promoting entrepreneurship. All of this is on the trail of what you have said today, which you have discussed and other than this part, it should certainly be reminded that, in accordance with the new proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service, it is in line with the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 of the basic Regulation and a series of other regulations in the part of the agricultural consultation, but also in part of the provisions which must be met by farmers and all support users at the level of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy. I also appreciate your proposal in the direction that it is necessary to definitely recognise the position of fishermen within the Croatian Agricultural and Forestry Advisory Service. Of course he is identified and defined in a series of regulations that the law defines and we will consider proposals regarding the very proposal for a name, a future service name. Also, here we have historically concluded that today's form of advisory service has been defined in a way that, two services have joined together, so first of all, since the beginning of the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory, which was created in '97. has preceded history within the Ministry of Agriculture and in 2006 there has been defined private forest advisory services for private forest owners, public services for private forest owners who have been actively serviced as farmers under the new institution. And it should also be pointed out, here's that this number means systematic jobs of 400 and some systematic jobs, that 277 is employed and that I don't know what concerns. Of course, all these employees have contracts indefinitely, and they will all continue to be employees of the Agriculture-Forest Advisory Service and that what happened in the past will not happen, meaning the degradation of a number of really experts in agriculture and those who help the family agricultural holdings, but also other entities in agricultural production. I told the family farms, I already mentioned within 5 minutes of intervention, that the Ministry of Agriculture is preparing for the first time the law on family holdings and will define those farms at family level which will have meanings, which are the basis of future sustainable agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be strategically determined according to these potentially potent agricultural economies. As far as education itself is concerned, here I thank you in that part of your contribution to the debate. I must inform you that in the process, up to registration, the service itself, in order for it to meet the requirements of formal adult education in the field of agriculture and related topics in terms of education, so that this part will eventually be resolved by the end of the year, so that the service will also be a quality service for farmers. As far as the administrative part and scope of the service itself are concerned, unfortunately, I have already pointed out, in 2012, 2013 and those years when we joined the EU, that the service was imposed a lot of administrative affairs and in line, this law is the basis, but also the Statute of the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service in the future, is the basis for the dedication of that basic mission of the service, which is professional advice, these are EU projects and that is the better competitiveness of agricultural economies. Well, let me also present a few data over the past 9 months, which the service has realised at measure 1 level and measure 2 under the rural development programme, means, the services, i.e. advisers in direct consultation and professional assistance to farmers, provide the EU fund 25% for their salaries and material costs. So the part provides assistance for the functioning of services across the EU. Up until now, 50,000 contacts have been made, i.e., tips in 2017. 25000 is the number of aid given, meaning direct assistance in the submission of applications for support. This is where the advisers also participated. 8000 courses held and training from measures already mentioned measures 1 of the rural development programme in 2017. 6000 individual training programmes in principle 1 per 1 means an adviser farmer of 1000 lectures of education from the school fruit scheme, where we promote means domestic agricultural products in the fruit sector. The service implements 10 EU projects that are registered for the education of consultants. So from that part, counselors are also educated, and here in that part someone mentioned that the service is not engaged in EU projects. Around 400 projects, advisers participated in their design, in defining applications for measures under the rural development programme, which is not a very small task, i.e., which is not measurable in the means that will ultimately be realised, which are not small efforts and are not small activities of the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service. Here they were, and those indicators A, in which the evaluation of the consultants themselves was valorised, a system was established for the evaluation of their work, and it was allowed to amend the statutes additional motivation through a salary supplement in the future on the basis of this evaluation or evaluation of the work at the end through an increase in the income of farmers who should be the basic guideline when the work of farmers is valued. Here someone also mentioned education on the pesticide course, so in this part it was necessary to amend the Sustainable Use of pesticides Action Plan and avoid unprofessional training by some institutions. This service in the future will be the basis for this education and, of course, their services will be compensated from the state budget, i.e. through measure 1 covered by this cost, means again eu funds by redistributing activities and allowing the service to participate in that part and not to spend funds from the budget but also eu funds. Here I thank you once again for the comprehensive debate, for the high quality proposals of parliamentary representatives and all your constructive proposals between the two readings we will consider and if there is any need, feel free to contact the Ministry of Agriculture for further clarifications. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49567	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49568	Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forestry Advisory Service, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 168. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a Law on Croatia to the Agriculture and Forestry Advisory Service is hereby adopted and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 107 for, 7 abstentions and 5 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49569	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land, first reading, P.Z. Number 178. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Secretary of State, Mr. Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49570	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Here is the proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land, which was sent to Knin at the government's conclusion at a meeting on 5 August for the first reading on behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Agriculture as a resolute ministry which has worked on the drafting of this law over the past ten months. First of all, I would like to point out with a broad group in part of the lawmaking committee, but also in the context of the e-consultation we have received a large number of concrete comments, proposals of which we have installed a significant part in this final draft of the law in the context of first reading. Here, let me present in short lines the basic provisions of the new concept available to agricultural land at the level of the Republic of Croatia, and we in the Ministry of Agriculture are assessing, as well as at the government level, that this is one of the most important reform laws that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia implements at the level of the farm. It is therefore proposed primarily because of the definitely observed and proven ineffectiveness of the applicable law, due to the changes that occurred in the past period, limited primarily to capacity for the Agricultural Land Agency which was not able to resolve quality management primarily of state agricultural land, and this has also led to a lower use of agricultural land in the past period and a final function of a very small volume of additional agricultural areas, as well as a directly related reduction in the area or fertility of the soil. The adoption of the proposed law means that the basic provisions of the new concept of law, the possession of agricultural land, are transferred to local self-government units or municipalities and cities, which will speed up the availability process and allow for better control of the availability. The reduction of administrative barriers is also foreseen, which will further facilitate the availability of agricultural land. I would like first of all to point out here that from other ministries, above all the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of the Environment, we have adopted certain comments that go in this direction teaching on what we have already proposed in the initial version of the new Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land in order to ultimately reduce administrative barriers to the availability of agricultural land. It will also enable the setting up of a function of abandoned private and state-owned agricultural land, but also the separation from the forest-economic base of all those agricultural areas that are nominally managed under the forest-economic base as agriculture, or those are meadows, pastures, and there are also cases with oranics that at the level of the Republic of Croatia we have data on the counties. There are over 398 thousand hectares and of course it is illusory to expect all this available agricultural land within the forest-economic base to be put into operation, but our goal is to at least one quarter of these surfaces. Of course, in cooperation with the Croatian Forests or the Foresting Administration and the common field exit, we define as agricultural and make available units of local self-government which will then install in such land a programme of availability and place within two models, which is a model for the lease of agricultural land or a model for the sale of agricultural land to farmers or farmers. In this part is allowed way or model we have found that the plot of existing parcels that are on a forest-economic basis is allowed. If a part of the eligible part is found to be suitable, a plot can be carried out in order to put as much agricultural land as possible into service as possible. When establishing the criteria for the allocation of agricultural land owned by the State, priority shall be given to livestock owners or livestock owners, who do not have sufficient agricultural areas in the function of food production, i.e. meeting the criteria of the Nitrate Directive, in order to comply with the conditional number, means the throats of cattle. As far as this work is concerned, it is a volume of approximately 3-4 thousand hectares on a variety of agricultural land available in the possession of a country that we allow cattle farmers who do not have enough agricultural land to come into possession of that agricultural land to feed their livestock and I have already said to meet the criteria for the Nitrate Directive on the environment. One of the models being introduced is the sale of agricultural land, meaning in total volume within the unit of local self-government up to 25% of state agricultural land by clearly defined criteria as well as in leases, and in that part, family farms, domestic farmers, young farmers related to the volume of agricultural land that the municipality or the city will define for sale under its programme. Finally, it also expects the application of this law to stop the trend of depletion of production-based technological units and to encourage the environment and to maintain and protect agricultural land for the purpose of preserving and increasing soil fertility as a limited and difficult renewable resource. In addition, at the end of this preliminary presentation, it should be pointed out that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget and the resources from the availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia have been defined as so far and the income is 25% of the state budget, 10% of the budget of the units of the regional (regional) self-government, and 65% of the budget of the units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb in whose area of agricultural land is located. The funds are intended, are used on the basis of a programme of use of funds, units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb and County, and reports of the use of funds are submitted by 31.03 each year for the previous year. And here again at the end, I repeat the fact of working on the drafting of this law over the past 10 months, within the commission means they participated in other than the rest of the ministry and other bodies of the state administration, of course representatives of the associations of farmers and farmers themselves, young farmers themselves, but also other institutions in the agricultural portfolio and closely related to the agricultural portfolio. After the e-consultation we received over 180 pages of comments and I repeat a good part of the quality comments we have installed in this bill. Here for now, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49571	Thank you very much. At the State Secretary's office, we have seven replicas. The first replica is from MP Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49572	Your Honor, Vice President. Secretary of State, I am also sorry that today is one of the most important laws for agriculture and agricultural production here did not come to present the Minister of Agriculture who is so boasting about the measures in agriculture, the number of increases in the CAP and not to talk about all the attractive TV contributions we have seen. I think it was a place for the minister to appear here and discuss, i.e. Explains the law and interprets what is changed by this law. The question is why has been waiting this long with this law, since this is now the second HDZ government, we have lost a lot of time in terms of agricultural land, the survival of agriculture that is being asked, the land is the most important resource associated with agriculture and related to family farms that are very important to them, because with what I can manage, I can safely organise my production. Many have waited and stopped their development of both machinery and other facilities, and perhaps an application to European funds because they have not resolved the most fundamental issue of all agricultural issues, which is land. The second question is when can the first tenders under this law be expected, given that we have lost time, how long will it take after the law is passed and the law is implemented, when will we expect the first tenders and the first contracts signed for the assigned land agriculturally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49573	Thank you very much. Next replica, Representative Prelec Allen, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, here I have listened especially to what you have explained about this law, I must immediately say that any law that goes towards being a state of agriculture better than it is now and hardly that can be worse is significant progress. What fell into my ears when you were talking and I'm going to speak on behalf of the club later, so I'm going to talk, spread the subject a little bit, but what asked me to say, you said that, clearly, you were giving more authority to the units of local self-government. As head of local self-government, I think it's a good thing because the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture can't even do it on its own. I think these 500 and some units of local self-government will certainly do better, but the question is by what means. We all know that in fact most of the land is in units, smaller units of local self-government that are sub-capitated about human beings, there are not enough resources, mine would be the question of how we will get and the resources to solve these numerous problems in agriculture and about agricultural land. So we're not avoiding responsibility, though, we think that the solution is that units take care of their area, but with what means. And the other thing that fell into my ears when you were talking about the permission to land, I think it should be absolutely there to ban the lotion, any plots on agricultural land or any other land. When we talk about small plots then we know that in fact small parcels do not allow one serious farming business and here is the experience of Slovenians, we know that they have completely banned any plots. The father has 4 sons, not allowed to divide the plot into 4 parts, but only one son can inherit the plot, this is the law that should be applied to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49575	It's called Protestant custom, right, good. The next replica is MP Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49576	Here's the Secretary of State, I think it's a good thing that my replica came from behind my colleague. The replica is, I can only carry on one word, finally. For more than ten years, we have been saying exactly what is prescribed by this law, including here at the pay phone and the colleague will remember it, at the time of the Milanovic government's discussion. I don't think anyone can manage the land better than anyone who's on the ground, who knows all the problems, who practically knows all his population and what it's all about. It's this part that mentioned a colleague in his replica, which refers to the plot, that's exactly one of the key parts. Namely, there is another government regulation according to which agricultural land, the State's attorney's office has been registered with automation in the ownership of the Republic of Croatia from municipalities and cities, if at the moment of '91. According to current plans from the time of Yugoslavia, they were outside the construction area. In Croatia everything changed, from the construction of highways to the very way units of local self-government function and the development of spatial plans. So the huge areas that are agricultural land status have entered some business areas have entered some construction areas, infrastructure areas. By itself to this model now proposed by the Government by this law, it was not possible to pitch and the long-term profit procedure for that part of the land was particularly within the production business zones owned by cities and municipalities, and therefore had to be paid, since part of that land was also in the forest-economic bases, units of local self-government to obtain that land, regardless of whether it was a breach or a maquis, they had to pay for the removal of forest-economic status of the forest-economic base according to the bond. So this is one first step, a good step, and in any case I believe that you from the opposition, you fellow especially who are the head of the municipality, should support this approach and this way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49577	Thank you, thank you very much. Next replica, MP Mladen Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49578	Thank you, Vice President. Here, as my colleague says, the law has finally come, even though no contest has been called for these two years, there have been a number of malfeasances about issuing certificates about peaceful possessions, we are all aware of that, but this law has a series of regulations that determines the minister. We don't know exactly the same thing, probably the Minister after the regulation is passed, we know exactly what it applies to, I don't think it's right that there's a series of regulations going on in the law, and the same thing is that we're not going to open the competition again for the next year safe until the local self-government units have to make sure that they have to make a further addition to the availability of agricultural land, and then the consent of the next year there will be no competition and return of those who didn't respect the lease when the contract goes down, that's before the expropriation was done by the agency. Now it's back to the State's Attorney's Office, and I from, directly from the case as head of the municipality, we know that the State's Attorney's office is unfortunately "quick", so it's been waiting for the man who hasn't paid for two years, because when you don't want to take his land because he's going after the crop, I don't think that's right. And the funds, someone mentioned the funds, I think the funds to the local self-government units should certainly be more than 65%, that it goes 80% because the local self-government units will bear the most of the burdens in the design of the program, in the opening of the competitions, because only one contest in the opening of the National Journal, we know how much it costs and these 20% to split into county and state. With the county, but I'm going to put it in front of the HSS club, I don't think it's right that the county is still giving an opinion, even though it has a 30-day deadline, I don't think it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49579	Thank you very much. Next replica representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49580	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, inaction, i.e. policy of inaction, preventing the sale of land to foreigners as a moratorium in 2020, there is the possibility that foreigners buy the country and the fact that what happened to us in Hungary, where a whole part of Hungary became in the hands of agricultural land, in the hands of foreign owners, and then Orban essentially stepped up the measures, the EU was then critical, so Orban called a referendum with 87% of people supported the referendum not to sell to foreigners agricultural land. By this law, I don't know which way it's changing, the 27th time on agricultural land. We need to think about it, and insubordination can lead us to a worse situation than Hungary, to lose some sovereignty, and only then will we remember that we have to call referendums, we need to protect our natural resources. And agriculture is one of the key treasures. In 2020, it means deadline, why don't we use this law to strengthen measures such as Slovenia, Romania, Denmark to protect agricultural land so it can be exclusively in the hands of the owners of domestic, natural and legal persons and certainly no foreigners, because the fact that it is safe to throw its paws to foreign investors on something that is most beautiful, which is agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49581	Thank you very much. The next replica is representative of Zhagar Tomislav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49582	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So I agree with those colleagues who say it's a good solution to get the agricultural land back to local self-government units because they know best how to build that program, it's true that in local self-government units, in smaller municipalities, you don't have a lot of personnel. The commission will gather, of course, to agree on the economic, agricultural and this profession that the law provides for. But what bothers me, I think a colleague before me here in the replica said, however, stands in the legal proposal, goes to the county opinion, we don't know who, the county council, probably the mayor, and then goes to the agency's consent. And then you have in Art. 49. I mean, in item 2, if the local self-government unit doesn't make it available, the problem with agricultural land, then the county will bring in, and all the funds go nicely to the county. That doesn't seem fair to me, because it doesn't say for what reason if they don't. What if he doesn't get the consent, if he gets the mayor's negative opinion, let's say for a political reason. And the other thing is 10% of the county. Okay, come on 10%, 65% still goes to the local self-government unit. But now let any of your colleagues tell you, maybe there were former mayors here, I don't know, what's the county actually doing around agricultural land? Okay, if 10%, you said here, that it had to come back, that it was a means. But here in my county, you know, it's over now with that irrigation system. And now, the mayor says we'll be rid of farmers for two years from paying the fees. Great, the mayor boasts about it, but that means he won't, he'll get it from the assets of the local self-government unit. And the system is only in the area of some units of local self-government. And generally, in any measure, anything. So these funds go to the county, then the mayor determines where he'll point them. He can tell the political criteria again, I won't, I will. I don't think I'm very happy with these solutions in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49583	Thank you very much. And the last replica, Agent Babic Ante. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49584	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Majdak, when you spoke in your opening statement about certain things, that's actually what we warned when we were in opposition and were talking about decentralisation, but primary, one functional decentralisation, and only then what is said in our public space about this fiscal decentralisation. This is one example of this functional decentralisation. Actually, your predecessor by 2015. More specifically in 2013, Minister Jakovini also discussed agricultural land, and then we warned that it was not good to do so from the level of Zagreb, while eliminating the units of local administrations and self-government. And actually, the people of Zagreb can't know, say in my Imotski or Sinj or Omis, where this land is actually located, so it used to happen, that people were getting land on the highway, that they were getting on the coast, that they were getting to the top of the hill, actually where the agricultural land was more accurate. It was funny, but it was funny. It wasn't the minister's fault at the time, it was what they had listed as particles. That's why it's good for local self-government units to get involved in that part. Today, we have heard that this may be a burden for them, but that is why funds can be found, in order to find the most effective way, a solution for the availability of agricultural land. But I'm asking you and it's also also important by the principles of subsidiarity of this European Charter of Local Self-Government, and you have to say it and you're running out everywhere because it's very important and it's actually a way for others in the Republic of Croatia to work and strengthen the units of local self-government. But one question, if the local self-government unit doesn't bring in a programme available to agricultural land, then it goes to the county, but which body brings it to the county. Here's the thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49585	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Representative Marija Jelkovac, chairman of the Committee of Legislatives. Josip Križanic, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49586	Just for a moment, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament held 22 sessions, held on 19.9.2017 on the proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land, which was delivered by the Government to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government by Act 4.8.2017. The Committee on Agriculture shall, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held the debate in that law as the parent body. Since the debate was comprehensive and long, given that preparation and debate are being prepared and in this Parliament all afternoon, I will not read you 7 or 8 pages just a conclusion. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously decided to postpone the Croatian Assembly of Conclusions, a proposal for a law on agricultural land is adopted. References and proposals to be made in the debate shall be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49587	Thank you very much. I'm taking a break by 3:00. At 3:00 p.m., we continue the club exposure, the first club is the Mosta Club and representative Tomislav Žagar. Thank you very much. It's 1:00. 20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49588	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Proposal for a Agricultural Land Act. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49589	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to explain in short lines the position of the Most about this legislative proposal, as the first reading is to further improve the second reading and possibly this kind of remark to be respected and to enter into the final draft of the law. So at its 52nd session, the Croatian Government adopted the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land and referred it here to the parliamentary procedure and today we have it in our first reading. According to the 2013 law, the intention of the Ministry of Agriculture, as explained at the end and explained in the proposal for this law, is to reduce administrative barriers, to facilitate the availability of agricultural land, to enable the remaining of people in particular young populations in rural areas, the rounding of land, the position of abandoned agricultural land and state agricultural land that is not in the function of agricultural production. So the goals are quite ambitious, for a number of years actually, and since I've been here in the House on this subject, they're always the goals that we want to achieve around you, but in practice there's a series of problems, so we'll see how this law will live too. Despite the part of the solution that the Independent Lists Bridge will support, we want to clearly express our position in relation to certain legal provisions that need to be amended in order to fully address a number of problems related to the management of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. Given that the Agricultural Land Act is changing for the 27th time, we believe that it should be approached with special attention to its changes in order to ensure stable conditions of management of agricultural land within the longer term, thus ensuring the continuity of investment in agricultural production. Often changes create uncertainty among agricultural producers and thereby limit their development. Our key remarks on the proposed bill refer to the continuation of the policy of neglecting measures, preventing the sale of agricultural land to foreign citizens and legal entities, as it is possible that, at the end of the 2020 moratorium, EU citizens and businesses will be able to buy agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. The bridge of independent lists opposes the sale of all natural goods and agricultural land to foreigners because, in our opinion, it represents selling parts of sovereignty. Since we have low agricultural land prices compared to Western European countries, we believe it is necessary by law to deter foreigners from buying our land. Unfortunately, the current government proposal will not achieve this, which will be difficult to damage Croatia's agricultural production and national interests. Furthermore, despite the same EU accession contracts, many countries have passed and adopted legislative provisions that have tightened the conditions for the acquisition of agricultural land, thus protecting them from domestic and foreign speculators, and have virtually dimmed the interest of foreigners to become owners of agricultural land. Due to the free sale of arable land after joining the EU, Hungary has practically lost its sovereignty in the western part of the country, so the state had to repurchase the country, as well as counterpart Bulj spoke in a replica today. Then Prime Minister Viktor Orban proposed a law banning sales, the EU sharply criticised him for it, he organised a referendum and received support from as many as 87% of Hungarians, and, with Hungarian amendments to the constitution, permanently made it impossible for foreign citizens to become owners of their agricultural land. Some countries, such as Slovenia, Romania, Denmark and the Baltic countries, have legislated the conditions for the acquisition of agricultural land. Slovenia has prescribed a barrier, e.g. The customer must be resident or resident in Slovenia for at least five years, that persons who own neighbouring parcels and young farmers have the advantage of agricultural economies and others. In Estonia, foreigners without restrictions can only buy up to ten hectares of land. In Denmark, you cannot become the owner of the country unless you have a certain education and proof that you live on a farm for 25 years without interruptions, with the maximum land area owned by 300 hectares. This problem was also discussed by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Parliament, which presented the Study on the proportions of illegal take-up in the EU where the problem of agricultural land concentration is indicated in the hands of a small number of owners and the purchase of land by investment funds and banks, particularly expressed in the eastern part of Europe. The possibility of changing the use of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes is controversial, which would be implemented in accordance with spatial planning documents, which opens up the possibility of manipulation of valuable agricultural land. This opens the possibility of building a golf course at a small door. We know that we have the categorization of P1 and P2 extremely valuable and valuable farmland, can either be determined by spatial plans or by laboratory testing that the land no longer belongs in that category... its categories can be re-scheduled, and later converted into construction or in this case as indicated for golf courses. We cannot accept that the obligation to pay the rent is by the end of June of the current year, with a built-in provision that the lease agreement should be terminated if the tenant does not pay the rent by the end of September because it will make it difficult for the business of agricultural holdings that have first incomes only from the fruit of the wheat. The law provides for the possibility of assigning agricultural land to use without a public tender for companies established by the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional self-government, and provides for those users to be released in part or in full from paying the rent. This opens up the possibility of further political manipulation with agricultural land, which on the other hand is eagerly expected to be obtained by farmers. In particular, here we must say that many young farmers today find it difficult to get to the ground and here we see one of the traps and what in fact a unit of local self-government or companies owned by units of local self-government or state should work in this area if we really want farmers to become competitive. That would certainly be unfair competition. There are also unclear criteria... the price of purchase and lease of state agricultural land and the legal consequences of the intended termination of the contract if customers, tenants or concessionaries refuse to enter into an annex of the contract for the revaluation of agreed fees. The Independent Lists MOST is clearly committed to the concessions and leases that were granted to the powermakers in Croatia through the revision but we do not want only small agricultural producers to end up suffering, as was the case so far. Finally, although the legislative proposal states that no additional resources are needed in the state budget to implement this law, I must again point out that units of local self-government will have secure additional resources because it is in line with the provisions of transitional and final provisions, units of local self-government i.e. municipalities and cities due within 90 days, 3 months to bring a programme of agricultural land, it is one extensive job. What I have already pointed out in the replica today and it is not acceptable for such a programme to go to the county and then agree to the agency because then that urgency that the minister announced that this law would actually return, the power to the municipalities and cities then loses meaning because indeed the county and the agency can, let's say for political reasons refuse the programme. If they reject the programme, then there is a provision of legislation which is also questionable that the programme will bring the county and then the funds from the lease of agricultural land go into the hands of the county, so all 75%. 10% as usual, the legal solution belongs to the 65% that is foreseen for the municipality. We believe that this solution, this legal solution, is not good. There is a State Attorney's Office, there are other bodies that can verify the legality of the programme, the availability of agricultural land by the municipal council, the representative body of local self-government units, and there is no need to send it to the agency for consent. And regarding the allocation of land, abandoned land for 5 years privately owned, I personally think it would be a good solution if it were in practice enforceable because there are constitutional provisions on property integrity. And on the other hand, what farmers stress and what bothers them, and the minister has arrived, and what bothers them is that five years is actually a small period. If you enter the abandoned land, while you bring it to its purpose, it will already practically go a good part of that period of 5 years and then it is simply a small period. However, all these remarks will be made by MOST Independent Lists, let's say this conditionally they will go over them, if we adopt a key observation which is that we already take the necessary step in this legislative proposal to prevent the sale in a way that is possible from being sold to foreigners after the expiry of the moratorium in 2020. If we see in this direction of goodwill, the Most Nazadni list will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49590	I thank my colleague Sagar for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a esteemed colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49591	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Zhagar, here is the minister, will surely be able to answer this key question accordingly and this moratorium by 2020 and the possibility, and 27 times this Agricultural Land Act is changing, means the possibility of selling a country where they could lose sovereignty, such as in Hungary where EU criticism in Hungary has sharpened Orban and measures in Hungary carried out a referendum that Hungarians with 87% voted that agricultural land cannot be owned by natural or legal persons, foreigners. And so he preserved essentially further, the loss of Hungary's sovereignty, but the new law did not allow it. What are the reasons, I know that we are always under the influence of European directives, as counterpart Shuker said yesterday, that it was signed and signed, although this was not asked or clarified by the people that it exists in the directives. So this is also the most important thing to preserve sovereignty because in Croatia, agricultural land is ecologically preserved and ready for organic production. If Slovenia, Romania, could in this case Hungary, Denmark, a number of Baltic states, why not strengthen Croatia's purchase measures for our land to foreigners. If we are obedient, which is the greatest sin of the Croatian and Croatian political elites of all governments, then we will lose that part of sovereignty and that is agricultural land. And I hope that the minister here will publicly answer your question that the country will tighten the measures, that the second reading will find a solution that Croatian agricultural land can be exclusively in the hands of Croatian natural and legal persons and not in the hands of foreign owners, investors because they took both energy and numerous other resources of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49592	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. Come in, Mr. Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49593	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, and I welcome the minister who arrived in the meantime. So a very short replica. The truth is, we can't, we can't, we can't, what we signed in the accession negotiations, and we can't say anything right now, "Puj-Pik doesn't work," but we need to take this important topic seriously, and I believe that if the minister decides to put this into the law that he will have full support for all political options in the Republic. The EU will not remain silent about it, they will put pressure on but will have full support. Both colleagues Bulj and you and I are probably convinced if the referendum were to be conducted that there might be more than 87% of the population of the Republic of Croatia for that provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49594	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. The next call came from a respected colleague, Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49595	Dear colleague Zhagar, I have followed your presentations, you have cited many arguments and you have studied the bill in detail and indeed made good, quality arguments that let's say make for thought. I'm interested in what you think and you gave parole, let's say not to support it, but if it promises not to sell agricultural land after 2020, then you'll give support, or if it is thrown out or clearly indicated that it will not be sold. So in your opinion, what is the key objective of this law, you've listed a lot of things, and why is it now being passed, what is it you want with this?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49596	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic. My colleague Sagar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49597	Thank you. Dear counterpart Lovrinovic, it is clear to me that neither the minister here nor the minister can promise, but surely they can take steps in this direction. And in this already legal proposal, we can install provisions that will go in this direction to prevent the sale of land to foreigners. The point of this is, the minister has repeatedly stated it, and I hope so. However, I fear whenever these provisions are to be applied in practice that they will not apply. Basic sense, you're an economist, the basic meaning would be that we talked to the advisory service on that day, and now we're talking about the Agricultural Land Act, so competitive agriculture based on sustainable development and rural development. First of all, we think that we should keep the historical, cultural heritage in the natural heritage of our village and on the other hand that we have such a farm that will allow for development, be competitive. And now it's very, if you looked into the reasoning of the law, those goals were becoming very ambitious. In this bill of law, I'm afraid of a few things that won't happen. First of all, I'm worried about this part of the confirmation story in the county, that the county is giving a positive opinion and that the agency is giving consent. Because the only units of local self-government, in this I welcome the minister's intention to return to the units of local self-government, but then let the municipal council be responsible why the young farmer in their territory did not get the land. While the other one who owns 400 acres in the lease, doesn't even process that land, the law is now laid down, can't be leased, and who's going to prove it? We know how our State's Attorney's Office works. So let the municipal head be responsible, actually the municipal council that the young farmer didn't get the land and the one who has the country, takes the incentive, it doesn't work. And in this part, support from the minister for returning to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49598	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. Next to the replica, respected counterpart Ivan Šipic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. So here's the good part here is said and in this exhibit, and part of the answer here has been crystallized on this particular land supply, i.e. What is defined by the access agreement of the Republic of Croatia that by 2020, therefore, it will not be possible, i.e. The ban on selling land to foreigners, with me believing what you've been encouraging, the government will respond in time and send additional queries, memos and opinions and opinions to say so, to extend that deadline. It is important here to say that in 2020, plus those 3 years up to that review and the requirements that can be made. Here you certainly need this proposal and look back at this, what you just said in your last replication, that the advantage this time is that units of local self-government can have, for example, many of us will say in our neighborhood, let's say, Trilj, there's not as much land as Sinj, agricultural, but let's say we have this land where the problems have cattlemen, so this time I'm sure and this law, and I've had the opportunity to get information from both the promoters today and from the secretary of state, that let's say the cattlemen will have a priority this time not to point it out, but rather to preserve the OPGs which is the key to one of the big problems on the ground and thus directly encourage both the development and the rest of the people on our part. This is why I have no particular objection in this sense, and I guess I should say that MOST 2016 was involved in the creation of this law, and so are these replicas that go on are practically corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49600	I would like to thank my colleague, Šipić. My colleague Sagar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49601	Dear Mr. Simic, thank you for the replica. I'd just like to point out, since the minister and I are coming from the same county, I think Mr. Majdak, if I'm not mistaken, has not, therefore, worked in our county. Virovitica-Podravska County is one of the first counties where almost or all municipalities and cities have brought in a programme of agricultural land in time. That's very important. And I believe it will be so in the future, that many cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia will be brought in on time. What bothers me in this law, and I hope that you agree with me, that it is not good to think about it, and then to the agency, because it can happen there, too, in Article 49(2), if it is not adopted, it does not say, which is why the programme is adopted. Let's say the agency refuses, and then the county will bring in the program and the municipality will have no funds. It's not good if it happens. I suppose that can be hard to do in practice, but if it can happen, it's not good in the legal solution. So that part should be excluded that this intention which is exclusively to be welcomed, that municipalities and cities bring programmes and that they are responsible for the availability of land and their... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49602	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. Next to the replica, a respected counterpart, Miroslav Simic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49603	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Žagar. Here, I would just like to briefly comment on this position that you said at the end and on behalf of the club, that we need to find a way to protect ownership of Croatian land. So, especially if we look at the example of what happened in our neighboring Hungary. For what? Not only because of the mere ownership that we normally need in some normal situation, but especially because we are now in a very Croatian economy, a dangerous situation in light of the Agrokor affair, concessions and ownership that individual companies have within that corporation, especially here I mean Eastern Slavonia. I think it is also important to point out that the Croatian state must also through this law, efforts and the Ministry of Agriculture and all of us MPs find ways to ultimately keep the country owned by the Croatian natural and legal persons of that Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49604	I thank my colleague Simic. My colleague Sagar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49605	Thank you. Dear fellow Simic, you reminded the problem well because the stories in the media could show that for PIC Belje are very interested in Hungarians. You see, the Hungarians have carefully protected their agricultural land and if they come into possession of the property of the Republic of Croatia, then that will be a problem. So once again, let's point out, the ministry will also, in a proposal for this law, hopefully show the will to move in that direction. If we move in this direction, the Mosta Club will support this legislative proposal and then we can continue to work on the well-being of Croatian agriculture and Croatian farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49606	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. The next line came from a respected colleague, Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49607	min Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Sagar was talking about Art. 14. which says private-owned agricultural land which is not maintained suitable for agricultural production can be leased to someone else who is looking for it. And then he talked about it being a longer term than five years, or 10 years. I absolutely agree with him, that the five-year deadline is too small. You have to give one bigger deadline, one longer term, because when you put that land into operation, five years is absolutely too little. And then she stopped a little bit and said the property was harmless. I don't agree with him here. Or, in part, I agree. Clearly, it is non-injurious, but property and liabilities, it obliges the owner to keep that agricultural land neatly clean. And that's where the ministers should take that step, put it on 10 years, and there's one more thing that I don't agree with, he says in the follow-up, with a fee. Now we're talking about that one who doesn't maintain his farm land will also get compensation from the one who's going to bring it to its end. Here's where I disagree and I think and that fee shouldn't be, but simply, what agricultural land should be given to whoever wants it without compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49608	I thank my colleague Preleco. My colleague Sagar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49609	Dear colleague Prelec, I agree with you, but do you know where we part ways? We don't live in the same neighborhood, I don't know what the situation is with you, but look in Slavonia you have a lot of houses, lots of abandoned houses where property legal relations aren't solved and we don't really know who owns that house. There was no desert debate. You get into a situation where people report that the old house is going to collapse, that it's going to fall on neighbors. You can't go in with a badger on private property and take care of it. It's really a situation, coming up... He says, chief, you are not yourselves, so you cannot destroy other people's property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know, and with this... Land, it's easy where the owner is, so the owner is charged, and what about all the areas where it's not solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There will be problems and then, of course, this part of 5 years old, then it's actually small, if someone gets into that adventure at all, that it's going to cramp, because usually someone can show up. You know, it's not worth anything, but when he feels that some money might be, then it's worth a lot, in that sense I wanted to warn him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49610	Thank you for your response to my colleague, Sagaru. And the last replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49611	Dear colleague Žagar, I'm going to ask one question, I don't know if you'll be able to answer me, or perhaps later this minister, we had this old law competition and what was the problem and what happened as a problem, so it was an agency and there was no limit, so how many whole people can get one person or applicant, and it happened to us in the town of Metkovic, that some people got a lot of these totals. And given the wealth of the Neretva land, it may be enough for a man or a reporter to get two acres. And there were major problems, even us in the town of Metkovic, even though the SDP was in power at the time, nor was Most at all national level, accused of getting some people too large. I have some information, if it were still Minister Romic limited, I don't know how specific it is and if you know it, but here, I'd like the minister to answer that, because there will certainly be such situations, where they will accuse the local level. So when we've been accused of not having conducted a competition or had anything to do with it, because certain people get too much, then they can imagine what's going to happen to individual local leaders. I'm curious whether or not it's going to be appreciated in the plan, meaning, the characteristics of certain areas, the wealth of the country in a particular area, to limit the fact that more of our people can get land, from which they can feed their family, and from what they can live. And not that it's happening to us that we weren't happy with either, that some people get too much. Not because they were blood, but because they were such criteria, and people were showing up, as many as possible, what if we don't go through here, I'm going to go through here, then they're going through a whole series of wholes. And then it happened that someone got too much, and some people got nothing. So I don't know if it's settled through this law, if maybe it's already been settled. I have information that Minister Romic was doing something about it, but here I'm not so familiar with it, perhaps you know more or someone from the ministry if you don't have an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49612	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. We'll take time from colleagues, Bulj, as compensation. Here you go, Mr. Sagar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49613	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Grumoja, I believe the minister will respond better. What I am now aware of is that there is a provision in this legislative proposal that the unit of local self-government can limit the amount of land to be leased. It would be very good if we had discussed the Family Agricultural Economy Act before this law. He's already in public debate, I think. We're gonna need to come here and see what the family farm is. Is it someone who rents 700 acres of kuna incentives, is it a family agricultural holding, or is it already a business entity? When we define that, then local self-government units can decide on it and I support the minister in that. I say let the municipalities take responsibility. Let them take responsibility for the contest themselves, and then limit the individual farmer as much as the country can have. Because I'm saying, again, only the municipal chief, the municipal council, they'll be responsible, because a young farmer who only needs 2 acres as you say can't get, and she's got 700 acres, she's still not processing it, she's taking incentives, she's driving by Mercedes, and she's laughing at this face and she says it's all mine. And it's not his country, it's the country, he's the only one with a lease. In order to avoid such cases, it is important to make such legislative proposals, and with that provision, to point out once again about protection, that foreigners do not buy, there is no problem at all not to support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49614	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49615	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. This law is certainly one of the most important laws in the area of agriculture that we will pass in this House and will be supported by the HDZ Club. From the draft Republic of Croatia, agricultural land from social property has become state property and has been available in various ways in accordance with the Agricultural Land Act. At first, the law had no provisions on availability, and later forms of availability such as concessions, leases, service, sales, donations or replacements were mainly based on a plan for agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. The local self-government units later conducted the ministry and later the Agricultural Land Agency. In 2015, available programmes and other means of availability to agricultural land are abolished. As very few public calls for the award of agricultural land were issued through 2016 and 2017 and there was a huge dissatisfaction with this law on the ground, as well as ineffectiveness of the agency due to capacity constraints. This proposal, given that it is a very sensitive area, should have as broad a consensus as possible between all stakeholders, especially farmers and cattle farmers, in order to put them in a market match in a more equal position. We therefore welcome the proposal to speed up the availability of land to local self-government units as well as better control of the implementation of those programmes for agricultural land, as well as the full control of the collection of rents. It is inadmissible that we today do not know how much land is not paid for rent in the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand, millions of incentives are collected for the same land, land is devasted without control and impoverished against the economic programme. I'm withdrawing strict control of the economic programme. In fact, there is a provision in the current law that the payment records are kept by the agency, and until the acquisition by the agency, the records are kept by the local self-government unit. I want to make it very clear that in five years the current law of the agency has never taken over that deposit record. This law gives the agency the possibility that private abandoned agricultural land can be leased for a period of five years if owners are inaccessible or unknown, and the land is not maintained suitable for agricultural production. Exclusion from the forest-economic base of abandoned agricultural land which can be brought into agricultural production and the possibility of giving such land in accordance with the rental or sale programme. We suggest that part of such agricultural land that has been grown by vegetation and whose depletion would cost more than its value is also put into operation if there are interested in renting for the purpose of free keeping pigs or cattle for the purpose of keeping cattle, cows, calves without obligation to withdraw or bring war use within two years. Of course the rent price for such land should be lower. Agricultural land owned by countries shall be made available on the basis of a plan for the availability of agricultural land owned by the units of local self-government. The availability programme shall contain the total area of agricultural land owned by the State, the data on the current availability, the area specified for return and replacement, the area specified for sale, the area specified for the lease, the area specified for the lease for the ponds. The availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia through a public tender shall be carried out by units of local self-government. The lease of agricultural land owned by the State through a public tender shall be carried out by units of local self-government within a period of 25 years with the possibility of extension for the same period. It should be possible for the efficiency and speed of the land allocation process in the ownership of the Republic of Croatia to make it possible for small municipalities to be able to include their own counties for the sake of lack of administrative or other capacity, and therefore, for the same reasons, to enable such small municipalities of the co-ports of the county administrative authorities, not representative but administrative, for the purpose of shortening the procedures. In order to avoid any confusion over what counterpart Sagar's revenue from payment would normally be shared by 65 municipalities, 25 states, 10 counties only would have the right to charge manipulative costs. If the county delivers an opinion, we suggest that the deadline be reduced from 30 to 15 days. Also due to the sub-capacitation of the State Attorney's Office, their opinion so far has significantly slowed the public tender procedure, but since it is now a county state's attorney's office, it means 21 with a 30-day deadline should be a statement unless an opinion is deemed to be no objection, that such processes do not break up for years as they were before. In establishing the criteria for the allocation of agricultural land owned by the State, priority shall be given to owners or owners of livestock who do not meet the conditions of the average ratio of the number of cattle and agricultural areas, and to previous owners, young domestics whose agriculture is a basic activity. The country is an extremely important resource that we have, that we must safeguard and build agricultural production with. With livestock is different, we had him and we destroyed him because of various policies and land. Either we preserve it or we destroy it to the end, then we don't even need agriculture because livestock should still be viewed as added value of agricultural production. It is a multiplier times five, of which it lives both farmer and slaughterhouse and meat industry and dairy industry and transport and trade, so livestock production gives added value. Therefore, cattlemen should have absolute priority not only in their municipality but also in the county area or within a 30-50km radius of the headquarters or production facility. Why? It is not logical that the cattleman has a priority in a small municipality of 30 square km which is 3X10km and in that municipality we may have 3 quality cattlemen with too little land and in the next one. So why is it that at 2km in the neighboring municipality or county next door that borders the municipality of this county the neighbor can't get land? Is it because there is no land in his municipality that he must stop farming or move to Ireland? I note from the data from the Agency for Agricultural Land that as many as 17 municipalities in which the most in Croatian Zagorje does not have a state country at all in the Republic of Croatia. Even 66 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have under 10 hectares, 2.3 hectares of land. Not only did the country's shortage destroy cattle farmers but soon the problem of disposal of fertilisers will arise in accordance with the Nitrate Directive, as cattle farmers have largely not been given the opportunity to subsidise electricity. And that subsidized electricity products from biogas plants don't even have enough land. These subsidized quotas were given to others. I mean wind power plants. This criterion should clearly distinguish the priorities of the owner and owner of livestock, especially in the case of the cooperative of pigs or poultry, so that they are not doubled. This law opens up the possibility and sells agricultural land which is good. Particles up to 10 hectares and up to 51 buyers with JLS can use 25% of the land owned by the Republic of Croatia in its program for sale. It would be good at certain times to enable slightly larger plots of 10 hectares, within these allowed 50, now until they are able to buy strangers at the time of moratorium. We also suggest a donation or service to the country of cca. 10 acres of young families, on condition that they process it, on it they can establish an OPG, run agricultural production, and after 10 years that country would be their property, that's our country and that's our children, they'd be guardians of space. What do we need with the deserts in Bania or Slavonia if we don't have people? They say the problem is DORH, I don't know why DORH would have anything to do with keeping young people in rural areas or even better in the country? Mr. Minister, I ask you to take this into account and possibly put this possibility into another reading as a possibility, in a similar principle to what it was for the defenders of the '90s. The funds from the agricultural land available owned by the Republic of Croatia are 25% of the state budget 10% of the regional self-government unit's budget, 65% of the budget of the local self-government units. The funds are intended, intended exclusively for programmes in agriculture, for the settlement of the costs of the procedure to be conducted in order to settle the property legal relations and land books for the settlement of part of the actual costs in connection with the implementation of the law, the land planning programme in the process of co-operation or hydromelioration, are used on the basis of the programme of using the funds of units of local self-government. The funds of change of purpose to agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia are 70% of the state budget and 30% of the budget of the unit of local self-government, used on the basis of the programme of use of funds. Since this is a very sensitive matter and the state land is an extremely important resource for which the widest public of this law is interested, a strong step has been made for the better, but it will surely experience much more improvements between the 2 readings. He definitely should not be subject to the revote of the left and right side of the assembly, especially not cattlemen and warlords, but rather all should contribute more constructively to making as better a final law as possible, which certainly will not be ideal but would have to be the fastest possible acceptable to all interested parties. And once again, the HDZ Club will back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49616	I thank my colleague Križanić for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague, Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49617	Dear Vice President, Minister. Col. Križanić, from what you have stated, it is evident that this ministry led by our minister Tolusic has detected many problems that some previous ministers have not detected, which they have managed very well in their roles and are very successful. And those whom they represent, and whom they represent, they have failed. There are many innovations, and I was particularly impressed by this one about giving 10 hectares to young couples, young OPGs and those who will register their OPGs in these 10 possible hectares and engage in a sustainable rural development as such areas are located in rural areas. I am particularly pleased that the advantage in obtaining such land will especially and the abandoned will have a championship of cattlemen who, until now, have not been in a position to compete with large cattlemen, with large companies who, according to previous competitions, have been fictitiously transferring conditional throats from farm to farm and thus have received unfair points where they were in front of small cattlemen who could not compete with them and about their not to say... , in their area they received huge tables of agricultural land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am also pleased by what you said, also about the financing of young and small farmers, which has not been the case before, especially because they did not satisfy the Nitrate Directives, and while wind power plants were largely financed and supported for who knows their known reasons. I see that there's a special reference here to small farmers who are the cornerstone of the sustainability of the areas from which they come and these are our rural areas. When we look in our neighborhood from Tovarnik to Vinkovci in many places, only local bosses left to say "powermakers," in some time they were called "cooks", they are now successful farmers, but by rounding these lands and creating them, all the long little ones who had to look for their own space outside of Croatia and west were destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49618	Thank you, colleague Culey. You're even better than your teammates at the Most about time. Answer, dear colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49619	Mr. Culey, at a debate held the day before yesterday about this law, it was said that it might not be good that such a broad consensus was allowed and before the law was passed, it turns out that the promoter should have been more rigid. Of course, it is good to hear the opinions of everyone in the first reading, that once the law is passed, it is as good as possible, as much as possible, so I have given this proposal, in connection with the donation or service of the country to young people who, after 10 years, could receive it in the right of ownership. As for cattlemen, our livestock production falls every year, they either survive or fail. We have to make it very clear that the cattleman is working with land and cattle for 365 days, 24 hours. In war, it is something different and I welcome the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Resort Ministry and our minister have determined that cattlemen have priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49620	I thank my colleague Križanić for his reply. Next to the replica reported an esteemed colleague, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49621	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Križanić, I understood everything you said, but I would like to say that Croatia was the only one who was powerful in agriculture and was equal to the European agricultural, at the same time straight and could deal with them. But what have we done? We made it out of agriculture, we gave the wrong land to certain people, I'd say that, they're farmers that came after the war and didn't deal with agriculture. And of course, what happened, they destroyed the other little ones that just shut down the farms and left. But the question now is each other, we have Agrokor which has about 32,840 hectares of land, of 32,19 111 hectares only in Baranja, Belje. PIK Vinkovci and PIK Vukovar, PIK Vukovar 6 529 and Vinkovci 4 469, that means complete agriculture, it is large under the questionnaire if it would happen, God forbid Agrokor goes bankrupt. I wonder, the other day in Osijek I was, so people tell me that Belje had any profit, that the minister will probably know of 110 million kuna. Look, one firm that I know and all these other PICs that were elite PICs, who could feed the whole of Slavonia, suddenly came under the questionnaire, could they even feed, would some credit be taken from Russian banks and others, is the strategy of destroying complete Slavonia? I thank Minister Tolusic, he's going some good way, I don't know if he's going to end up, but I hope he will, that he'll have a good time, at least he has to try, with the others I haven't even noticed, I must admit, I'm telling you. I am truly afraid for the bankruptcy of these three companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49622	I'd like to thank my colleague, Micic. The answer of my colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49623	Thank you for that question. When we brought Lex Agrokor, just one of the reasons I raised my hand for Lex Agrokor was this. Don't let the quiet occupation of Slavonia happen or you want the eastern part of Croatia overnight because it could have happened. It's hard to tell right now which direction this quiet occupation is going to go to solve the situation around Agrokor, but I'm sure this government, the Prime Minister, will certainly not allow this quiet occupation to happen, to take over 30 or 40 thousand acres of the best country you forget to sow on, and the growing wheat and to take over someone, then we really didn't need the defence and peaceful reintegration of Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49624	I thank my colleague Križanić for his reply. Next to the replica, a respected counterpart, Davor Vlaovic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49625	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Križanić, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, I welcome you all together and agree with your conclusion that this is one of the fundamental laws, one of the most important laws when it comes to agriculture and the development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia because there is no production without land. But I answered the line to point out once again the two problems that you pointed out in your presentation and which are not solved. It's impossible and simply dangerous that under these conditions today we don't have what you said, the structure and the records of who paid the rent and the concession and who didn't. How is it possible today that the ministry and the agency, along with all the techniques and tools that they have that they don't have, and of course, I welcome it because it was also the idea for HSS to be left to the local self-government units because they know best in their field who is a serious producer and who is not, and this is a good time to return the decision on the sale and lease to local self-government units. But how they're going to take back these jobs if they don't have quality records, who paid the rent, who didn't. And you also mentioned the problem, the economic programme, because in the competitions of certain companies and economies, they appeared with quality economic programmes. They received points on the basis of which they wrote that they would deal with livestock and had some cattle in their production, and then because of the crisis in livestock, they sold and left the livestock production, and the rest of them were landowners and they were asking a clear question, were our small family farming economies of competitors then, because they paid neatly, I dare say the majority of small family farms that were primarily engaged in agricultural producers, paying their obligations. While the big ones aren't, and here's what they're talking about, the Agrokor problem, whether they paid the rent, whether they paid the taxes to the state, and if then the small producer is competitive with them, and that's what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49626	I thank my colleague Vlaovic for the replica. The answer of my colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49627	Comrade Vlaović, thank you for talking about this. That's what we've been talking about almost every committee in the last two years. Payment, payment and payment. It's not just that these people, they didn't pay the rent, but the problem is that they picked up the incentives, that they devastated the country, that I don't say raubals. A colleague asked me what that means, you Slavons know what it means to talk without mind or reason. Whoever was supposed to take over the agency from local self-government units. After that law, it's never been taken over, it's never been taken over, it's going to have to finally be solved now, so we know who pays who doesn't pay. The one who doesn't pay, it needs to be charged with the backlogs, in any way, and as far as the economic programme is concerned, there is a simple situation. Who doesn't stick to the economic program, break the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49628	I thank you for your response to my colleague Križanić. Next to the replica, a respected colleague, Tomislav Zhagar, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49629	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Križanić, you have opened a very important topic, but before that, this morning when we had a debate about the advisory service, if you read their report, they generally say they meet in the field with foreign rejection. And the signs of association, when they're mentioned cooperatives, cooperatives, something like that, people get roughed up right away. I guess because of the past time, that's how the relationship stayed with it. Why am I saying that? Because talking to farmers who have been in this business for a long time, 30, 40 years. They say when you talk about this, about livestock. It doesn't have to mean that a good cattleman has to be a good warrior. That doesn't necessarily mean anything. So it's not just a solution, that all cattlemen, here's milkers, have enough land to feed their cows. What's important to them is that food be such a cost, such an entry cost, that they can be competitors. And maybe the ministry should think that way too. Not only in the sense that they shall receive the land, but also incentivise those warlords, who shall join them, who shall provide them with food. If I don't know, here's how the secretary of state reacts, maybe it already exists. There would be one problem-solving system, in those cases where cattlemen can't get land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49630	I thank my colleague, Sagar. The answer of my colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49631	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. It's not just a price problem. There's the problem the first nitrate directive I've been telling you about. The second thing, the descent and some food that you cannot drive from Slavonia to Croatia Zagorje to Dalmatia. The rape can't be driven by anyone. Someone who has 200 rights and has no land, and has no continuance and no shadow, in which way he will buy it. I don't think that's possible. Input costs are the main problem. Yeah, input costs in production. Because of these entry costs, most of them are... Cattlemen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If cattlemen had land, part, at least 50% of the cost in these oscillations, some times it's good, some times it's less good for them, depending on the price of their main cereal products. So, about the hay, we can't talk about the rape. You can bring on wheels grain, wheat, corn or some other cereal, but these two certainly don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49632	I thank my colleague Križanić for his reply. Next to the replica, a respected colleague, Mladen Madyer, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49633	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleague Križanić, we talked about shortening procedures and we all advocate that there should be as little procedure as possible, and now again we are in control of going, you said that you would reduce from 30 to 15 days, to give your opinion to the county, but why is it necessary to participate in that county at all? If units of local self-government bring the program, go to the adoption program, then bring and choose, goes to the agency, we re-enter the county, which is unnecessary in that sense and we always play, to go to some more, we need some more documents. I think it's unnecessary at this point, and yet, I think a particular problem may happen politically. We know that certain municipalities are one structure, in the county another structure, and we could get caught up in nonsense. I don't think the county should be involved in this at all. Except for those local self-governments that don't bring in programs. It's a regular time. And the control of the program is, clearly, that we're livestock, unfortunately on this branch that it is. But we've got to be careful to respect this for the cattlemen and other municipalities, that's fine. But who's going to control the economic program? It's all well written here, but from experience, I know it's not in practice that kind of control, and I hope some cattlemen smuggle, work the country, and I'm afraid they wouldn't destroy the warlords who, for now, have machines, buy on loan. We destroyed livestock to keep from destroying warfare. We've got to be careful about that, and it's an honor to support the need for cattlemen, but it has to be a strong control.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49634	I thank my colleague, Madero. The answer of my colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49635	Comrade Mader, I don't have a problem with whether it has to be the county,... We discussed this on the board or suggested that it should not, so there were suggestions that there were several hundred likely small municipalities that had neither a municipal director, let alone a service that could implement the plan first and later run the competitions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we said let it go to the county to speed up the process in that case certainly doesn't need the county, when the county on behalf of them does it. This is probably what the proposer's representative will be told why he predicted, I suppose because he is thinking of doing another degree of control over local self-government units or executive bodies, leaders that there are no combinations that we all know are very easily possible. Programme controls, today we talked about the advisory service, we have inspection services, we have everything possible today's ARCOD combination, so it's much easier to control today whether someone sows, processes land in the way he listed in the program or not. If it could be controlled 20 years ago, and now it can't, then I don't know when it'll be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49636	I thank my colleague Križanić for his reply. And the last replica after this discussion of the esteemed colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49637	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Križanic, spoke about the problem of local self-government and property units. I'll draw attention to the oscillating property. We've been having a lot of trouble with the oscillating property lately. In fact, people give up, heirs give up property because they know that debts are much greater than what they inherit. By law, this ossage property becomes owned by units of local self-government we get houses, cars, we get land. Now I'm asking you, what we're going to do with a lot of land, and lately it's getting more and more. Here my colleague was just telling me in Zagorje that he simply has some ossuary property he receives every month, which is what a local self-government unit with this numerous ossuary property, with the land that he gets, which he generally has no price whatsoever, has no good price to sell or we can say that there is no demand for that country at all. That's one big problem, I don't know how to solve it, and now we're between two readings of this law. Honestly, I don't have a very good suggestion, but I think we should all think together how we might help the units of local self-government so we don't have to bury our property because if we get half acre of land every month it's going to be in a year I don't know how much land. Who's going to keep it, and it's almost impossible to sell, not to mention the cost of a public notary about the cost of assessing any land, no property you can't inherit without an estimate, these are extremely high costs, there are problems. And I believe that all the mayors and mayors who receive such a sinister property are in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49638	I thank my colleague Preleco. The answer of my colleague Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49639	Thank you. Mr. Prelec, that's not exactly what I was talking about, but I'm sure it's something to be taken care of, because I've been a longtime chief myself, and I know it's a huge problem. when half a hectare is still good, but you get in Zagorje are very small plots so you get a dozen parcels of 300 square meters or 500 or 1000. That's certainly the problem, then, because of all these evaluations of each plot should be given to assess then the problems, then you go to public tenders, then no one will buy it, so you repeat it every year that you have fulfilled your part of the obligation. Surely that's the problem, here's the minister, the secretary of state that's certainly more a question for them than it is for me. I can't answer you, but I know it's a big problem I'm dealing with myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49640	I thank my colleague Križanić for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49641	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, the other promoters, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support the first reading of this law, but we have several objections that you would like to consider anyway. First of all, we generally absolutely commend the objective of making this proposal. First of all, I will only list some of the reasons which... and which should be brought, which is to facilitate the availability of agricultural land, allow for the remaining of people especially younger populations in rural areas by rounding the land. Also, what is a novelty of this law that you would certainly like to underline is the possibility of the agency to purchase private agricultural land offered to the owner at market price, offered by the owner, but also to lease if the owners are inaccessible or unknown, and the land is not maintained suitable for agricultural production. It's certainly on the trail of all the debates, the speeches we're talking about about hectares standing around, and we don't know what to do with them. Also, the possibility of replacing agricultural land owned by a private-owned country under certain conditions is the same novelty that should certainly be improved and improved and also the conditions and procedures for establishing the right to build on the agricultural land itself and the right to service, all with that main and basic goal to take advantage of what we think is the richest in the world as far as the country itself is concerned. What I would like to ask, and it relates to the lease and Article 31 when it says that paragraph 14 that the county is obliged to give an opinion, as well as the agency is obliged to give consent to what is implementing, there is now not stated, and I believe that it will certainly be, which is further, perhaps, to inform us in an explanation just, which when that opinion or consent is negative, which is further some legal proceedings, which is happening. Is this a special commission in the county that decides on the upcoming decisions of municipal or city committees or councils that decide on the lease and, of course, the same thing in the agency, coffee is the procedure? So it wouldn't happen, and we know that through history we have different structures of government at different units and levels, so there might be some obstructions that are linked to peer pressures from lower levels. What we also heard about the lease that would draw attention to, and in the debate, we heard about the right of the championship in the public tender for the lease of Article 36 in which we gave priority to the owners of cattle, that is to say, cattle farmers, or warlords. We believe it certainly should, I also come from Osijek-Baranja County, which is by far one of the largest producers and by the number of cattle throats. And I certainly know, and I'm aware of the problems we've had since milking and on and on and on, which means for the price of meat to grow one pig and achieve a specific price that's far less than what we find in our shops and imports but that's a different story. But I'm sure they need help. But I'm afraid not perhaps at the expense of those warlords, the owners who have been planted, and who may well be here and mentioned, in the debate, may also be able to produce this same repromaterial if you want for further production of pigs. So that's where we see it, and we also see HGK's comments that it should be classified that existing owners can't be excluded from, or give less advantage than cattle producers. We also see that, i.e. in the second, it means the same Article 36 in the second sentence that some of the order of the right of the championship, when all other items are fulfilled, and this indicates the economic value of the agricultural holding of 8-100 thousand euros. And secondly, I think it should be even the first, legal or natural person to deal with agricultural production in the following order: vegetables, fruit growing, vineyarding and olive growing. This is exactly the vegetables that I think the first ones here are supposed to be included in that first category of priorities because we need to turn to the production of wartime production, the one that brings high or higher added value. We can no longer, no family holding can survive producing only wheat. The wheat is a month, two months to the top of the head of work a year and of course in two months you can't live 12 months, that's clear. It's nobody's fault, that's all. So it has to diversify. We don't have so many huge surfaces that it would pay off and that we're competitive, we know it ourselves, and that's why this law is still a gathering, but we have to turn to these individual vegetable cultures, that's because surely there through education, through all sorts of measures can be made added, higher added value. When we're also talking about renting, let's say the pond, or renting the pond so far, we also have one, let's say the proposal one was put into the criterion that it didn't matter, so it's important that the person was properly fulfilling his contract, however it's not stated that this person invested, as the first criterion under A) and that he actually does, that he's engaged in quite fishing and aquaculture. ... I think it should be one of the first criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, what may be final and is some of the more serious things is an article 64 that speaks of the right of the sales championship. We're talking about a previous landlord, if he's in... having the basis of the contracts which have expired, they shall have the right to the championship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder what about those who haven't expired contracts, who have an active contract, which in 2002, 2003, 2004 went contracts to 10 years and were then extended to 5 years, he has no right on the basis of this letter, so the Chief can decide to sell his country at the end. What's up with that? Especially if it's his word, that he's 41 and he's only 10 acres old, then someone else says with that condition that he's under 41 and has the right to the championship against him. I say this first of all because it is important for both funding and measure 4 and in general when we talk about added values and collateral, if it is about the land on which the plantations are raised, and that is very important, of course, because of the value and the acquisition of credit, in particular in this context there is an expression. That is why we believe that it should certainly be seen or modified or added whether the existing ones who have contracts are not in a more unfavourable position if they decide to sell only land. Here's the bottom line: I'd like these few of our notes to be considered, and I'm certainly repeating once again that the HNS Club will support this in its first reading and certainly between the two readings, if any, we'll give constructive suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49642	I would like to thank my colleagues, Stephen Churay, for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what we can figure out, I think you'll all agree that the situation in agriculture is not good, or it's extremely bad. One of these reasons is the poor availability of agricultural land. And every new law that's going to be directed here and that's going to be passed I think you should decide to take a step forward. I hope that and this law will be a step forward. What I can say on my part and I have experience as the head of the local self-government unit and I live in one rural area, to see a lot of problems in agriculture, and clearly this is about the availability of agricultural land. First of all, what we have here is the apparent devastation of agricultural land. When we drive out abroad and we don't have to go far, we can only go to Slovenia or Hungary, then we see that almost abandoned agricultural areas are gone. And here with us, in some units of local self-government, I'm sure that's 50% of the agricultural area. Why? I'm trying to talk to people why they don't process their country and then there are different reasons why they don't. First, they say it's not worth it. I believe there is, clearly, a lot in that, not to pay for especially small agricultural areas. Two, they say we people don't have time for that. They've inherited some land, they're working and they don't have time. Clearly, that too can be the reason why we have abandoned agricultural areas. There's a reason we also have a house watcher. People who just can't do it for some reason just because of age or disability. And all of that I would say, there are more or less reasons, but we still have 50% unused land. Here I have in my unit of local self-government made one register of unprocessed agricultural land and all those who can't for these three reasons that I listed, perhaps for some other reason, must report to that farm land register. And if they do, then we give that land to someone else who wants to work, rent it, clearly, without compensation. I have to say that there's a lot of success we've achieved, there's a lot of people who still want to farm the land, or I don't know, only agriculture, and there's a lot of success, but I have to say that those who don't put it in the land register, we punish them. I think it's the biggest stimulation for people to start, punishment. And that's why I agree with these new provisions that you put here in law, punishment is necessary for our people. But also stimulation. To punish and stimulate that there is simply no unsettled agricultural land. It is clear that other problems in agriculture or agricultural land are also available, these are small parcels. I have touched the Slovenians here a little bit, when I spoke to my fellow mayors, they are at the level of the mayors and mayors, as they have decided that they have almost no one there, unused agricultural areas, clearly, they say they are punishment but they are much bigger agricultural and they are probably worth it. There's no cleavage of agricultural surfaces. They say we have a clear, father who has four sons, in Croatia, that was an example, so now we're going to distribute that 1 hectare into 4 parts, each will get one quarter, no, there isn't. It was passed in law, that there was no splitting of agricultural land. He can get, I think in their law the oldest son gets the land completely. I think it's a good example and we just have to learn on such good examples and that makes sense. The other problem I see in agriculture is strategy. We strategy since we have Croatian states, we don't. Either we don't have it or we haven't implemented it. It is not Minister Tolusic's fault, which is here, a good opportunity only a year to run this resort, all the ministers have been guilty so far. All governments so far. But it is clear that it is also our fault that representatives who have not been well enough may have implemented laws or proposed laws so that the agricultural area would not be unprocessed, so that this country could live on agriculture. I'm sorry, I couldn't live but it could be a very good direction. I will say that regarding the strategy that Croatian agriculture has been constantly reversing from isolation. From the food exporters, we became a country that imports over 2 and a half billion euros a year. At the same time, we are achieving a billion-dollar external trade deficit. In an attempt to show the situation, it points to the causes of such a situation lately, agriculture has been widely reported in all media and numerous conferences. The blame for the bad condition some go to state policy towards agriculture, others in a broken market, and there are those who honor the media to contribute to such a situation. The fact is that the media contributes to such a situation. If there was a precise device that measured the degree of someone's guilt on the list certainly wouldn't have made the market and the media, but a new factor would have appeared and that is the manufacturer himself. In our people, there is an ancient saying, saying, “Help yourself and God will help you, ” and now the question is how much the producers themselves have helped the farmers. The question is, how many of us have joined together, how many have joined together? How many were they networking? How much readiness was there, along with the profession and science, to raise a voice against such a state? How open were we to learning and sharing our own knowledge? Were we all ready to take responsibility for our own destiny? How adjusted were the changes in the market? This list of questions is not closed. The role of the country for the poor in agriculture is unquestionable. Agricultural policies implemented over the past 25 years have led to a worrying situation in the Croatian village. Not only the constant decline in agricultural production but also the depopulation and ageing of rural areas, and the wrong land policy as a prerequisite for each agricultural production are the direct result of inefficient and inappropriate solutions. Policies often attended by the scientific community were tailored without the direct participation of the main factors, which are agricultural producers. What exactly happened? The agricultural model that has been in effect since the isolation has disappeared and has not been created or offered a new one, either by the producers themselves. The development strategy is completely missing. Unfortunately, we have the opinion that the state must address all the problems that agricultural producers face. This approach has led to the lack of interest, unpreparedness and passiveness of manufacturers for change, innovation in any segment of their own action from production to market. What the state must provide is a stimulating, legal and economic environment based on a clear vision and strategy. We need a strategy, that's unquestionable. I think that, but clearly, in that strategy should be included primarily in the profession, farmers, and only then, the last of us, the policy, which we will pass adequate laws. I hope, in writing this law, there was maximum involvement in the profession and farmers, the most important farmers. Croatia's agriculture lags in competitiveness and development compared to planned and desired, throughout the period of independence. The need for stabilisation, military, fruit and vineyard production is reflected in the constant decline of total production. From the beginning of the century to today for almost half. In front of the statistics, and when I read these statistics, I'm not going to bother you too much, I'm just going to say the ones that are really confusing and almost amazing, he says like this. According to statistics, more than 140,000 producers in the Republic of Croatia produce exclusively cereals, and 60% of them are organised on areas less than 2 hectares. All 1.6 producers own more than 20 hectares of agricultural area, 1.6% of producers, while, with the production of olives, more than 12000 producers are engaged with slightly greater consequences of ownership than cereal producers. There's still a lot of worrying data, I'm not going to read it all, but anyway, I think this is a reflection of a bad situation in agriculture. What I really want and what we should do with this new agricultural area law. I think we should activate all agricultural areas. Absolutely all agricultural areas. And this should be one first step in making Croatia produce enough food for all its needs. I don't think we'll be importing any more food, but to produce more than we spend, Croatia certainly can. Some data is that Croatia can produce food for 25 million people, and we do not produce for 4 million. And that second chance I see in agriculture, clearly, through agriculture, have enough food and tourism. When we go to the sea, then we see that in hotels, restaurants, a large percentage of food is not Croatian origin. Slavons have excesses, they can't place food on our domestic market, and we place more than 50% of the food via foreign tourism. We can say it's an export attack. How to achieve all of what I have said means to activate all agricultural areas, to have enough food for your needs and for tourism. I think we should, first of all, start punishing unprocessed agricultural areas. But not only by punishing, but also by helping every farmer. Now, there's a question of how to help. I will read something that impressed me, and said by Mr. Matija Brlosic, if the use of some herbicides is not allowed in Croatia, which is used by someone in Serbia, which is additionally costing production, then it is not right for that goods to end up in the shelves of our shops. We have to be on the market on the same terms, and some producers, then let them decide what to buy. This is what I am saying in the direction of what Minister Tolusic has initiated, launched, that all those who are thinking of importing food in Croatia should pass certain inspection findings. And what happened? The inspector started it and it was very quickly hitched. Why? It's the pressure. Pressures on the countries of the former Yugoslavia, import lobbies. Did we need that? I do, and there's no point in me saying in the superlative this tolausic minister that it was a very good move. But apparently someone in Vlad or Plenkovic, they didn't like it. That's why I support Minister Tolusic for such actions. When Croatians and Croatian producers want to place goods in Hungary or Slovenia, the EU, then we find 100 reasons why we can't. And Croatia becomes el dorado, for all those who export goods suspicious, corner. suspicious qualities. This is not an appeal that we will no longer have Hungarian apples or Bosnian strawberries or Mandarins, no. But that we need to introduce strict control, everything we import, absolutely necessary, yes. But help our producers get the goods out. It's not that easy in Hungary. I'm talking to some producers who have tried to place goods on that market, it's not easy. The Hungarians very well regulated their market and protected their market. We don't do that. And when the minister tries it, then we close it quickly. Here, these are some of the problems, and I see that time is running out and I haven't been able to tell you everything, so I'm going to try the replica, anyway I think we should support every effort to make agriculture a branch of which people will be able to live. To keep agriculture as it is, as we all wish, and for our villages not to be empty. It's a policy against emigration. The SDP will be for this bill, but between this first and second reading, I hope you'll appreciate some of our suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49644	I thank my colleague Prelec for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first came to the line, dear colleague Mladen Madyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49645	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Prelec, you, as head of the local self-government unit, are certainly aware of the growing and greater obligations of the local self-government units, and since I welcome this, as far as agricultural land is concerned, we clearly welcome it. It's what agencies have been doing so far, and it's proven to have not been successful, but certain agencies have also received certain funds for it. Well, I think it would be a good idea for certain funds to be transferred now to local self-government units that have been given agencies, and they haven't done their job properly. And also a very interesting article of Article 25(6) of the proposal is that the means of the change compensation are the revenues of the state budget 70% and 30% of the units of local self-government. So I ask you, do you think it's okay or is it the other way around, that 70% of the units of local self-government and 30% of the state?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49646	I thank my colleague, Madero. My colleague Prelec's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49647	Thank you. Yes, I agree that this ratio should in any case be in favour of local self-government units. But I agree with that when you say the agencies were getting funds. We still have the agencies, I don't know if they're going to cancel or if they're going to get any other meaning. This really isn't anything insolent but some other significance, everything is being transferred to me by the local self-government unit. Who will take that obligation and whether any units will have the opportunity to worry about it all, I doubt it. We know that we have units of local self-government that have, I don't know, two, three, four employees, who have modest budgets, is that possible? I'm afraid not, and there's probably going to have to intervene either the ministry or the agency to help these small units of local self-government. It's something that's been waiting for us all together, and I think we should actively involve the association of cities and associations of municipalities to make their proposal how to come up with it. Because this law is essentially going in the right direction, I think local self-government units should take responsibility for the availability of agricultural land because it's in their area. You can't have a state in 500 and more units of local self-government taking care of it, that's a thousand, a thousand problems, and we know that it's also with the Ministry of State Property that it's just not possible. This is a good direction, but give maximum consultation to the Association of Cities, an association of municipalities that will certainly give in the positive direction of their own solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49648	I thank my colleague Prelec for his reply. Next, a respected counterpart, Nenad Stazic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49649	You say colleague Prelac, say peasants don't pay off. So where, I wonder how it pays to produce in Istria, how it pays to do agriculture in Međimurje and not in Slavonia. Those in Istria must be tortured in that stingy land, and in Slavonia you stick a broom, and it will spill out in the next year. We need to analyze why this is happening. There's some reason. Why? I don't see him. Maybe it's our fault here in the Parliament because we've been taking the wrong measures and governments, not this Minister Tolusic, but all the governments so far. In all of them so far, the coalition partner was HSS who had a concept of small village land which was built by the old rural household, which was unable to farm the country. So we have a system of incentives per hectare, whether it's processed or not, instead of what was produced on that hectare. All wrong concepts. The import lobby, if this government has not had the strength to stand up to an import lobby, which imports cheaper and worse food from abroad instead of encouraging our own agriculture. But that import lobby he's dangerous, he's strong, it's not easy to deal with. But we need a new concept, not just like this, that's gonna fix something cosmetic. And the general direction is bad, and if we keep going the wrong way, we can fix something here and there, but we won't get any results. That's the basic question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49650	Thank you, fellow Stazic. My colleague Prelec's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49651	Yeah, well, among other things, I said it wasn't worth it. There are clearly a variety of reasons why something doesn't pay off, someone hasn't adapted to the market, someone has too little land so they don't produce enough, someone should probably join up to get it, they're all some reasons that are objective. You've mentioned the incentives a little bit, clearly it would be worth it to those who get the incentive, but that's where I see a very, very lot of problems. I think our country is doing the wrong thing as far as incentives are concerned. I've seen a lot of, a lot of situations where they get incentives from people who absolutely have nothing to do with agriculture. They've got land, they've reported all this expensive, they've got age incentives, they've never had anything there, they've got no culture, they've got no goats, they've got no cows, they've got nothing. That's where we need to make one very big control, that's where millions go, I'll tell you hundreds of millions. So we have examples that some of the former ministers are almost, or almost, rich with incentives. It's something we just have to take care of. Furthermore, I can ask if anyone asks a question, if the manufacturer gets an incentive, if the goods ended up on the market, if the goods were ever paid for by the VAT, if anyone was controlling it. If the state gives incentives of hundreds of thousands of kunas or millions to a manufacturer, and it sells it on the black market, what benefit does the state have if that incentive went towards making a man rich, and neither did it pay the VAT least to the state. It's something I'm also worried about, but a lot of farmers are very sorry about the government and the laws that didn't define it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49652	I thank my colleague Prelec for his reply. The next call came from a respected colleague, Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49653	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your esteemed colleague, Prelec. I volunteered for the replica when you mentioned the word strategy, after a man older and younger and less believed in it, when we talk about strategies and reforms. And what we believe is legal solutions and that's where we should stand. Maybe that's what my colleague Lovrinovic asked me earlier, what is really the meaning of this law and what we want. And maybe if it were in the opening regulations, it would have written what it wanted to come out of this law, maybe it would have been easier for me to talk now. I'll put an example of Article 36(6) of the Economic Programme contains, among other things, data on new employment. The key question here is why there is no actual employment data, i.e. how many employees will be in that agricultural holding. We have about a million and 100,000 enrolled in the ARCOD of the country in the Republic of Croatia, 150 thousand agricultural holdings, somewhere estimated to be 50,000 employees in the agricultural sector, which is about 3.5% of the total population. The EU average is 4.7%. And that's the key question, and we should settle it with a legal proposal and then then enter the strategy. How many people should live from agriculture in the Republic of Croatia? How much can he live off agriculture? How many agricultural holdings should there be and how many employees in this sector? That would be the key question if we finally stopped painting each other, so to speak. 'Cause watch Slavonia let go, there are fewer and fewer people in Slavonia. Not only in Slavonia, but here I am from Slavonia and there. Maybe that's the point, maybe that's exactly how it's supposed to be. If we don't take different measures, that's the way it's gonna be. So we have as many areas of the country as the people of that country can live, in that sense we should go to a legal proposal and then an economic programme, and I think in this law he should take a slightly more visible and better place. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49654	I thank my colleague, Sagar. Here's your answer, Comrade Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49655	That's what I was saying about us having to have a strategy. You said there were 4.7% of farm employees in some countries. I believe that Croatia has 4.7% of agricultural employees would probably not have so many evicted young people from Slavonia, from Baranja, from all areas. So strategy is the basic thing, let's see which way we're going. I think that strategy should talk about the need to base itself on family farms, clearly, not a family agricultural holding that has half a hectare of land than those that have 10, 20 or more hectares of land but also the most important one, and I was saying here that we have one large number and a large percentage of those farmers that sow wheat. Well, I think we only have extra wheat in Croatia. And the fruit, almost all the fruit and vegetables we import. So that's where the state has to play one key role, make a strategy, but the incentive system needs to be done in such a way that we don't encourage the wheat, we won't encourage the corn we have enough, let's encourage those cultures that we import. There's an important strategy, and then we'll have the job we'd like. Of course that percentage won't be 10, 20% because then we go into one whole other extreme. But in any case, the strategy is the basis of everything that will define how many people and in which direction we are going.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49656	I thank my colleague Prelec for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49657	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prelec, you have not said what you do to read that you are the leader of a local self-government unit and that you live with your people on the ground and that you actually feel it and it felt in your debate. When you mentioned to Slovenia that the country is inherited with the oldest son, it is not exactly true but with the one who remains on the ground, so there is no cleavage but is given to the one who remains on the ground, it is something similar and the Austrians do. However, it should be said that and we must agree that this side of HDZ has kept its promise from its pre-election programme and that after 10 months of working with a series of analysis, together with the profession, it has actually sent this bill to the Croatian Parliament, here today in front of us, in front of parliamentary representatives. And what you're saying is we're not farmers to decide this, but the fact is, after thorough analysis of the profession and all those who participated in the public debate, we're actually going to amend this law when we talk more about it in the second reading, supplementing it, or when we vote on it. You have come seriously to this law and you are very interested in it and from your subconscious it is actually to read that you highly appreciate Croatian farmers and you said that he does not suffer bad politics and that you are actually sorry for Croatian cattlemen, farmers, peasants. But if you had looked at the phonogram when we talked here in 2013 then we were actually talking about listening to people, professions, farmers, and then it wouldn't have happened to us to wait 3 or 4 years. That's why, for me, this is a revolutionary step because we've allowed the state-level units of local self-government to decide on the distribution of agricultural land and so should you, I hope, agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49658	I would like to thank my colleague Babic for his replica. There you go, mate Prelec's answer. You all agree. I see you two.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49659	So I see that very often it happens that the left and right side agrees, and that's very good, so we're going in the right direction, but you have to respect the opposition more when we suggest some things, when we talk about what we know. I also spoke here in the cleavage, and you said that, an example of Slovenians. But there's one more thing we need to run, and that's a piece of work. We need to start a commission in our area, which is how we do it, clearly that we need to include the profession, farmers, ask them, and then we at the end, at the end of the day, have to pass laws that will make it possible. I don't think agriculture can be serious with small agricultural holdings and small land, so the commission is important and here in this law we haven't touched much, almost nothing, as far as the commission is concerned. I hope there will be more to the second reading and that we will have one good direction in that regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49660	I thank my colleague Prelec for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, members of the Ministry and Secretary of State. Well, here's my colleague, Prelec, I'm delighted with your debate today, given that you've praised all the measures that the ministry has put into law and that you've still gone to the upgrade of what is necessary since 2013 when the SDP club praised something that we've rejected energetically and the HDZ club was opposed to. I took out all the phonograms from the first and second readings, analyzed them, and came to the conclusion that at that time you really praised what contributed to almost a million acres of desert land today. That the law was written in giants, and sent to the ministry and we intercepted that and that's what I was saying. The giant's gone, the land's still in control. And I'm not against the big ones being better, better, better quality, but why does the kid fail because of those big ones? Because of the incompetence? Because of everything that's happened, and the worst name we could say was haughtiness. Misunderstandings. Jakovina claimed and strictly stood and said that this law puts all the land into operation and that only 30% were processed at that time and 70% were unprocessed. This all stems from these discussions that took place in 2013. In vain time, money, our bile, and all of this has been shed in this House, the land remains empty and millions of hectares are now unprocessed. Here's what contributed, she's strict support, party leadership, so it has to be and it's over. I was also saying the closing word on behalf of the club,... about that law and I said we don't support it, that it's not good and that it doesn't lead to good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49662	I thank my colleague Djakic for his replica. My colleague Prelec's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49663	Well, my colleague Djakic, you got me a little bit wrong, I didn't exactly praise Minister Tolusic and this policy, but I know you didn't praise me that much, and now we're going to define that a little bit. I think HDZ led 3/4 of the Croatian states. And all of this that you say is true that it's a bad situation in agriculture, that it needs to be fixed but you refer to yourself as here for the last four years you've been running it, you've ruined Croatian agriculture. No, they ruined Croatian agriculture, I would say, all the few ministers who have led the Croatian state for the past 25 years, all of them a little bit, all of the governments a little bit, and we all the representatives who have been doing it here. I think that this law, my opinion, is going in the right direction, it needs to be fixed, you need to respect our opinion, but just these praises as you said, they're not, I didn't exactly praise it, and there's a lot that needs to be fixed. And he'd be happy if you were here in the 7th time, and you were here in the 7th time, just like me, and most of my colleagues here, if you respected our suggestions, or we respected your suggestions, as you don't respect our suggestions today. This is what we are today a constructive opposition, we are, we are trying, we want well-being in this case of agriculture and the Croatian state and I didn't notice it on the other side when we were leading both Parliament and state. Here's how it wouldn't be so idyllic, I've got to go like this, pour oil on fire.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49664	I thank my colleague Prelec for this intersection of the history of certain events. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49665	Here's my thanks, Vice President. Well, I'm glad my colleague Prelec said you're up a little bit now at the scene of your debate. In your debate here are some things you seem to have mixed up the cups a little, the minister has neither abolished nor introduced a border inspection, so according to the EU countries, but has raised the price so there has been a storm that has occurred. Unfortunately, we didn't do it with any predictions of how much damage it would be for that, either, but thank God, it ended without some great damage to the Republic of Croatia and could have been far away. You said this well that all the ministers and all the governments who have messed with Croatian agricultural policy and passed laws responsible for the situation in Croatian agriculture today, both once our former minister and yours, and as you said, HDZ is the longest finger in the game, so I think they are also the most responsible for this entire agricultural policy. Unfortunately, though, who carries the responsibility is less important today because the situation in agriculture is as it is, very bad and difficult to fix quickly. As regards incentives, these are essentially support, not incentives, today is unimaginable agricultural production without support, prices on product markets are such that without the support provided by the countries it would simply be invaluable to produce and produce especially cereals, it would be unimaginable, both milk and meat. The cost-effectiveness of the production of family economies or others, let's leave it to them, let them decide whether or not they're worth it, there are some 200 acres that say they're not worth it, there are some with 5 or 10 acres that say they're worth it. But all the time we've been trying to get in the country to tell some of you it's worth it, not to you. Let the producers decide for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49666	I thank my colleague, Leonard. My colleague Prelec's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49667	When I was talking about imports from the countries of the former Yugoslavia and our neighbours that got on their last legs, I was talking about the title of simply not allowing Eldorado in Croatia. I will read something that is a recommendation from the European Commission. Veli, only then did we ask the European Commission for information on measures that Member States can take to prevent the import of agricultural products treated with agrochemical agents that do not have the authorisation to use in the EU. What does it mean to do? It is only necessary to simplify and adopt the EU rules on the import of agricultural products into the Croatian country. That is what I said and I commended Minister Tolusic in that part that he tried to do something for Croatian agriculture, limiting uncontrolled imports and I believe that we can still do it, but in a way not to war with our neighbours, but to simply use these EU regulations. Today I see that we do not have too much success with our neighbours although the Croatian state is led by diplomats and the President of the Parliament is diplomats and presidents of the government and the President of the State is from diplomacy and we are almost at war with everyone. I hope it doesn't continue the way we're going to live with our neighbors in a better and better environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49668	I thank my colleague Prlec for his reply. And the last replica of this dispute, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49669	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, in your debate, you said that you would like to really make sure that all agricultural land is in office, that is, to put it into function in the future. Well, I just think that the measures provided for by this law, or, exactly, Art. 14. In particular, it goes in this direction, except for these other measures that we have already talked a lot about, during this debate and replicas related to land giving by units of local regional self-government, i.e. the state to use. I think this Art. 14. It is also important that private land, which is not in function, is also able to rent it for up to 5 years and thus simply and such land where the owners are inaccessible and the land does not actually serve its purpose, that it is available to them. I think we have a lot of such land on the ground and it's good to put such land into operation. And in fact, those funds from the lease that are collected and in these cases are put into a special account, that part of these funds is separated for putting the land into operation, which I think is also a good solution. By this law we are aware, we will not solve all the problems in agriculture, but we have also heard announcements, other laws will be passed, this law will be resolved, let us say so giving opportunities, that those who do not have enough land, that both by rounding and by all these other ways they will receive it and that they can have land which they will farm for either a agricultural purpose or for the purpose of raising livestock. And all other tools will be solved through other legal regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49670	I thank my colleague Jelkovac. My colleague Prelec's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49671	You kind of reminded me of something I forgot to say and that's the problem of the local self-government unit, how to punish unprocessed agricultural land, which has no owners. Now they say he owns everything. Of course there's a situation where no desert debates are made. Here I had such an example, where I fought with heirs who didn't want to make a desert debate for five years. For five years they haven't touched their particle, it's clearly healed, after the launch of the units of local self-government debate, then we asked them to do it, they haven't done it again. The fact that we did it on their behalf, that we tried to collect the works that were clearly costing and we're not doing it. So that's where we need to see the legal opportunity to force the heirs to take the obligation to keep the agricultural land, and then when they don't, to punish them or collect what's really the price of keeping it all together, we can do it. There are some legal opportunities, which are here, and this law available to agricultural land should allow us to simply introduce order in our area.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49672	I thank my colleague Prelec for his reply. We move to the next debate, on behalf of the HDS Representatives Club, HSLS, HDSSB, dear colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49673	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here, sometimes wars were fought because of the country, and today they are being fought, and here in the assembly we have a very peaceful debate, according to counterpart Prelec and counterpart Djakić, even uniformly, it seems to me that similar thinking is not, of course, different and very different from that law since 2013. And the fact is that this 2013 law was in principle the worst law of all laws available to state agricultural land and has done great damages and great impasses at the disposal of agricultural land. Although those previous laws were passed, they did not often give birth to the results they needed today, we still have situations that huge quantities of that state agricultural land ended up in a variety of hands in various ways and that often the country is not in the same way that it should be. It is used in many other ways, especially through encouragement and does not serve function, purpose. Now, by going a little under this law, we, like the Croatian Democratic Party Club, HSLS and HDSSB, will naturally support this law in our first reading. We have a few suggestions that the Proposer might consider and possibly until the second reading and include. Speaking of maintaining agricultural land in function and purpose, we already have one big problem. So here's a little earlier, the same colleague Prelec talked about it, we have a problem that we're unarranged and that in reality there's nothing we can do, the country remains abandoned, because in the end it doesn't know how to solve the issues of abandoned agricultural land at all. I'm also talking about state, of course I'm talking about private agricultural land, it's all the same, it can't be taken anywhere, and it's there. And our view is that it should certainly be legally, defined and regulated that the local self-government unit in whose area is agricultural land, unless the owner maintains it and does not have it in office, can learn to own it, clean that land, bring it up for purpose, and place that burden on the owner, if he does not pay, register on that land. Without legal firm regulation, we will find it difficult to do so and we will again become entangled in a network of various regulations and the country will remain unworked and desolate. And I'm really asking to take care of it, let's see if we can solve it by this law, or if we have some other laws to solve, probably this and some others, but there's a big problem here, so local self-government when an inspection does some work the barn can't get into someone else's property and we have big problems. The other countries in the environment have dealt with it, so it can certainly be solved and that's how it should be handled. I don't think anyone but local self-government can handle this job, and he's not a expense in the long run. As regards the availability of agricultural land owned by the State, as referred to in Article 29, it was on the Committee on Agriculture that it was not clearly defined who was the proposer to the representative body. It was a timely administrative department, but then it was a very, very strange situation where in principle the administrative department was as a formal proposing, some committees formed, the committees eventually were mayor, the mayor of the municipality who suggested it, and there was one hole to say so in that section. And I don't think that there should be any escape from anything at all, that a proposal for a programme is available to agricultural land means also a lease or sale, absolutely exclusively the head of local self-government to define, if any commission is to be defined, the expert body that will implement it, but it must be the final promoter in order for the representative body to bring it in. About the county's role, so 30 days for the county's consent. Who in the county? Does the county assembly, does the mayor, do the administrative department? I don't think anybody does. I think it's a bureaucratic obstacle that will only stop the availability of agricultural land and the county definitely has no real role in that part, looking at any particular significant role. There is a Land Agency which ultimately gives consent to the sale of leases should certainly be reintroduced by the State's Attorney's Office and we have solved this problem. representative bodies will establish proposals, expert teams, the county should not. But the county needs where the local self-government unit doesn't carry out the procedure, doesn't create a program and doesn't make it available. Let's get that county operationally into the business so the county can do the job for that local self-government unit so that the country doesn't stand abandoned if the local self-government unit doesn't start the job. I think it's a better solution so it could be much more functional to give more results and more effects. This provision to go from 50 to 25 years old with the possibility of an extension, we absolutely welcome. We think that 50 years was really too big and that it's really 25 years of real time for which the concession is given. But we would also have to define that it can be sold directly or bought smaller land areas to round the land, because I don't know in this continental part, maybe up to two acres in a neighborhood, and in that coastal area it could be half a hectare, up to half a hectare, or 0.3 that it could simply be bought so that there wouldn't be any problem with not having some competitions again I don't know what, so it's all expensive and nobody shows up and then there's problems. There's also one thing I want to say here, I said yesterday and on the Committee on Agriculture, a little problem with the concept of neighbouring land. So you have a situation that often times on these lands you appear in a catastra plot some Polish road that may not even exist in nature, but it is plotted and is practically a country on one side and on the other side of that Polish road and a man who has a country on the other side cannot be treated as a neighbor and cannot enter this model into some priority to buy it, especially if there is no interested neighbour on either side or on the left who would like to buy it. A small seemingly insignificant obstacle that in the nature of a person who comes into such a situation can be very disturbing, so here I am asking the service to see if such a thing can be prevented, whether something like this can be solved. My colleague Križanić already spoke on behalf of the HDZ club and I must say that I agree with him absolutely. Yesterday on the board, there was plenty of talk about how to put ahead, who had the advantage of renting or buying land. Definitely, we must not build on the borders of local self-government primarily, and then within the borders of regional counties. Why? Because the country can be located not near someone's field, its stables, and those in another county simply can't buy it, so someone doesn't know from which area, what distances they can get to rent or buy. In that part, it is definitely necessary to take the kilometre criterion, the people who are these professions, who are more said that 50km is some optimal mileage because within an hour the tractor reaches that distance and that the Nitrate Directive is satisfied to get that part solved. Of course, the municipality or city as a unit of local self-government must have absolutely that domicility and the first advantage because otherwise the municipal and city councils want neither to call competitions, so there would be additional problems. But if no one from the area of that unit shows up, then they can go within a 50km radius. The value assessment of land, we are absolutely not in favour of judicial assessors doing this, but of the IRS. What are we, a country? Are the municipalities and cities of the same state as both the Government and the Parliament? Well, we did. I think that just doesn't make sense and that the tax administration can very easily, very quickly issue out the decision to assess how much the assessment of certain land in which part of Croatia is. They have a model of how they do it, and I think they should do it for free for the benefit of local self-government and the state at the very least. You don't have to charge for that in any way. Now, the land agency, its role in our opinion, must be primarily control and not just control of what will be done but control from the time since the first Law on the availability of agricultural land was passed. To really see once in the field who handles land, who adheres to the economic programme, whether it is in it or not, it is clear that the land that has been sold is entered into the garlands, whether it is owned or not by the owners of the programme they have won will not be able to return. But there may be some slow movement, and unfortunately there are many warnings from people and people's dissatisfaction because the country is not being led in the purpose for which it has often been obtained. And I think that agency should do the right job. I also said today at the adoption, debate of the Law on Advisory Service that it should be strengthened, if it is necessary to strengthen people, let's strengthen people but let's do the job. No one will resent us if we step up our personnel capacity and do a job, they'll resent us if we don't step it up and do nothing, or if we turn it up and do nothing. But if we do a job then we can certainly achieve good results for Croatia in general, and of course for the policy that implements it. And in the end, that law, that in 2012, when somewhere in February, the month, then Minister Jakovina, who was often mentioned today, will be, of course, in this part of the Agriculture Act, stop the availability of state agricultural land, stop the processes that were already near the end, where the contracts were to be signed, and then wait until 2013, the new law, better not to have even welcomed it, better we didn't even welcome it because this law made even bigger circuses, and we know well what happened when we made comparisons to the state agricultural land in the time before 2012 from 4 years and 2012, then they didn't even see it on that chart. That's the result. Now, you need to fix it, you need to move in that direction, you need Mr. Minister to allow you to get what you started well, you've brought optimism back to this job, these laws that you can do so. We'll back this up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49674	I would like to thank my colleague Hrga for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a colleague, who I hope will now be happy and satisfied because here we have the strongest composition of the Ministry of Agriculture, their presence tells us how much they respect us as a legislative authority. Here you go, colleague Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49675	Vice President of the Parliament, thank you very much for your comment. I am always pleased when the minister comes, especially when the minister of agriculture and the law is on agricultural land, it seems to me that it is an indication that the minister is important to this law and that it is important for him to think of parliamentary representatives and, of course, I will point out when he is gone and when it is commendable. But let's go back to the subject of my replica that was sent to my colleague Hrga. In his opening part of the opening part of the exhibition, he pointed to a problem that we have more and more and more, which is not maintaining agricultural land, especially not maintaining those agricultural particles that are located and in the building area to be mowed, where the privateer has an obligation. When you own and you have something, it commits to something. The models we have, we haven't come up with any smart models yet, and in this law there's a lot of talk about the commitment that individuals have. I must admit that the only model we've managed to establish is the following, when you have a property that's ruined and that's dangerous to live so that you can tear it down that the unit of local self-government can put that burden on that land. But there's your next danger with these enrolments, these entries, of course, and there were some possibilities, so the Constitutional Court had some attitude about it, but then it's also a question of what the local self-government unit is going to do with all the real estates it has, what it's going to do with them. But surely there's a big problem with non-maintainment, and the non-maintainment is, of course, much bigger where it's agricultural. But what you see, you see especially in the construction area, when you have a plot or two where we grow weeds, rays, not to say ambrosia and everything else. And indeed, I also support that discussion of yours that went that way, we need to see, we need to find a model because the unit, so someone's going to do it on someone's own weight and the question is what model to use. It's more like in some cases you don't even know who owns it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49676	I thank my colleague, Dark Taritash. Here's a reply from my colleague Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49677	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleagues, for this replica of yours. Absolutely, yes, but not just construction. Here we have recently had the thematic session of the Committee on Agriculture under the problem of phytoplasm in the vineyards. The main problem that producers point to is the unsustained vineyards in the neighborhood, and we cannot enter those vineyards. So if there's no hard regulation that will determine that you can get into it, and we can't even force local self-government to do it because you can't go in there. The same story is in the construction area. It's amazing that there's a really ruined house, an object, you can't do anything because if you get into the property then the owner suddenly shows up and sues you, and then sues you, and until then he's gone. So that's where it's supposed to be hard, rigorous, firm. And I said especially in this part of the agricultural land, absolutely by law to decide and order whoever has to do it. What's local self-government gonna do with that? And let him build a program, let him round up agricultural land, let them rent it, sell it, give it to management in the end by the same model as the other state agricultural land. Surely some programs will be found, I think it may be a new phase in the work of local self-government because, let's say, a lot of infrastructure is made up and now in smaller municipalities you have a situation to invent even some things to do, here maybe it's one form of functionality and the existence of local self-government why it should exist, why it should be as close to people as possible, but in any case, yes, the big problem and it must begin to be solved by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49678	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49679	You bring out the original idea that unprocessed private-owned agricultural land should be resolved by entering inside the local self-government unit to process it for the account and on the burden of the owner if it cannot settle it, that those units of local self-government enter the property. What would she handle? What tools, what machines, what people? You don't say anything about that. But that doesn't surprise me, it's just another nebulise that's countless, which HSS did while you were running it, in agriculture. And because you are the most guilty of this condition. You say the problem is to enter raw vineyards in the neighborhood. Well, there's a solution to that. It was found by Minister Cobankovic. His family had before the war 3 and a half hectares of the country, he claims on an interview from 2011. Eight-and-a-half, so if they bought another nine, that's 17-and-a-half, and by the end of the term they had already had 33-and-a-half acres, he'd gained so much in two terms. So it's a recipe, it's a recipe. Because that's why you have to do damage to a country of 30 million kunas like him, but therefore, dear God, peel four and a half tons of potatoes, that the state made him plant potatoes on these 33 acres and peel his own potatoes, not Caritas's, would peel him for five lifetimes. You're saying Minister Jakovina stopped the process. Thank God he stopped these processes because who knows what would have happened if they had continued.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49680	I would like to thank my colleague Stazic for his replica. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49681	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Stazic for your replica because she allows me to say something here as I wish to say it. While I was running the HSS, then HSS had at least one press per week throughout Croatia di warned about the nonsense and damage done by the SDP government with Jakovina at the head of Croatian agriculture. That's when I did it, today the HSS is in your arms, good luck to you. But as for the entry into the cleanup, maintenance, malcherma, fellow Stazic, malchera. This is how it is maintained that the land is standing, that it is not healed, that there shall not grow a shear on it until someone has worked it, or a flood, or a plant on it, or a sown it. The communal societies, colleagues Stazic, are owned by units of local self-government, they have these machines for you, without any problem they can do it to you, only that should enable them. I'm sorry that you have such a huge ignorance of the power of local self-government and the operationality that she can have, but here I hope I've enlightened you a little bit now, that you'll know a little bit more about it next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49682	Thank you, colleagues, for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49683	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of Hrg's well-detected the problem of collecting the fines, actually, with units of local self-government. We have an example that we have a lot of raw land and then we write penalties, we have an example that people don't pay for it. Well, then the local self-government unit does it itself. I also agree with my colleague Stazic when he says there is no capacity for local self-government units, but well, some do. And then it all comes nicely to the point, clean up, now it's my question, how do you charge for it? There we must make one legislative regulation and the basis that units of local self-government can charge either the penalty or the cleaning costs. Especially in case we don't have a owner, and we don't have a owner if we don't have a legacy. If they don't carry out the legacy, or if we have, I don't know, a dozen, twenty owners you don't know who the real owner is. So we need to make a legal basis on how to do an exercise on agricultural land or a note so that units of local self-government can be charged either for fines or for cleaning costs. Here's where I'm looking for your help how we can simply help all these mayors and mayors so that they can make it simple that those penalties aren't just what you write the punishment, so now you can't charge anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49684	I thank my colleague Preleco. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49685	They're not colleagues, they're punishment targets. There's nothing out of punishment. The goal is to bring this country to a point. Because the country is private property, but it's just as much joint property. She's not a tractor, she's not a car, she's not an apartment, she's here, she's standing there, and no one can take her anywhere or can increase her or can cut her. So she must have a special status. And that's the thing. I think we've been doing the wrong thing all these years, we haven't made local self-government, we haven't made her, we have to admit that she has to do it. There was that, the agricultural inspector, and then the communal officer, and the communal officer reported it to the agricultural inspector, and he came, and he didn't come, so he wrote a misdemeanor, and it came to the judge for violations, and he didn't come, and then no one knew where it ended. It needs to be simplified, it should be simple to force those who need to do so and the owner to maintain it. No one's gonna take anything from anyone. But simply if there's no such measure, nothing will happen better. It's a kind of light natural long-term cohesion. In the end, a man like that can sell that land. Let him sell it. Have him sell it to whoever wants to work. So let the possessions be accumulated. And what was once introduced in one law that meant selling private agricultural land goes towards a local self-government agency, which was then, was not a bad model. Perhaps it should have been done a little bit, it should not have been cut smoothly, cut and rejected, such as the Law and the Croatian Agricultural Chamber in 2013 etc. There's been a lot of bad things going on here, and now something's trying to fix it, and I hope it comes to that, because we have a persistent minister who can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49686	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague of the Young Madier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49687	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hrg, well, you said that you held a lot of presses, but without success when you were president of the HSS, you're in power now, I hope yours will now respect these replicas of the minister, and I'm just wondering if they'll appreciate it, I wanted to ask you this question, who's going to carry out the value, the value assessment of the land? I agree with my colleague Stazic, that Minister Jakovina, that he has made major failures, but here I am, if one land, one hectare stood at 1350 kuna for 3 months, that hectare comes 650 kuna. And it was really evil, although I agree that the court's experts weren't appropriate to carry out the assessment, if I were to ask you, did you? 5. damage to agricultural land is also considered a re-use, construction of energy facilities. It's a windscreen construction, so it's a wind power plant. Do you think, because underneath, we see when we go out, that under those wind power plants grows corn or some culture, is that also considered a damage to the land? Because that's what Art. 5 paragraph 2 reads.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49688	I'd like to thank my colleague, Madero, for the replica. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49689	The answer to that question is likely to be given by representatives of the ministry, they will be able to be more specific there. Here you are sitting next to a colleague of Vlaovic, so he participated in a lot of presses and invited many times by the problem. He can tell you that, like some other colleagues sitting there. You have been many times, but you have experienced enlightenment, so let it shine upon you. I'm thinking the same way I thought about it anyway. I haven't changed my mind. And today I say and I have often said that the laws on state agricultural land and on agricultural land have unfortunately done a lot of damage. I never had the need and the opportunity to be interesting, to say so busy with that program and that problem, because I never did that, I didn't do anything about it. Well, then, some things that may have happened in another way and some other people have seen, so maybe you, too, have no idea, maybe you're swimming differently. I'm not, I'm experiencing it on the side, I'm trying to see it realistically, I've been taking part in discussions on agricultural land laws for almost 20 years, sometimes on party bodies, for the last five years here in the Parliament, and I have to say that before I was 10 years old, I said that management for the legislation at the time, that agriculture land management in Croatia is like something when people were divided into apartments of 3 to 5 thousand German marks in Croatia that we all paid together. It's just that it's been a little less intense land is something else, the land is, therefore, irreversible, the house collapses, a new land is made, and the land remains.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49690	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. We have another replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49691	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My esteemed colleague Hrg today is somehow striking to me the remaining debates of my colleague Mrak Taritash when she told the middle aspect of the law that he would actually have, what would have an impact on the situation on the ground. What's actually going to happen and what's going to happen on the ground. You have warned us well here, that other than rivers and roads and roads, they move in space. There were cases, and it wasn't on purpose, in 2000 when the first plans were made for agricultural land... And the property commissions weren't exactly teamed up by professionals in most cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they did, so people were trespassing, let's say from the office. So it happened that a man wonders how he'll get to his field, because only by helicopter, something you mentioned here is a problem. And it wasn't a problem until the ARCOD showed up, so people were looking for contract annexes, so it turns out they're paying more rent than they're getting incentives, because by then they were enjoying a country, which they weren't actually working on later in the ARCOD and they saw it. And this law provides for two commissions. So, the commission to conduct the tender and commission to introduce the property, whether for cutting, renting or buying. Maybe it seems to me to be one commission. But what's the problem is that this commission of conflict of interest can't be those people who know a lot in the country. So those who really do agriculture and who know that country know how to say that to the soul. And it'll require certain costs for local self-government units. What I would also like to point out is that, under Article 7 of the law, something that will lead to the cost of agricultural economies. Agricultural holdings must therefore keep records of the use of fertilisers, mineral, organic enhancers, soils and pesticides. What I don't think is right or I haven't found in the law, what we're going to do with that record. It would be good for that record to be collected somewhere, either in the local self-government unit or in the agency. That those data don't stay there with the farmer, because they can probably point something out to us. So maybe somewhere in the provisions should put it, because... the provisions even provide for a fine of between 10000 and 30000 kuna, if not managed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49692	I thank my colleague, Sagar. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49693	So as far as the records are concerned, I think it has to be kept, there's no need to give it somewhere, let everyone keep it, and if it comes to control, it'll show and it'll be all right, if there's no record, it means he didn't act in accordance with the directives that exist. And as for this first part of what you said, so remember when local self-government was thrown out of the reach of agricultural land, what happened? At that time, Minister Jakovina began his famous assignments, so people were getting billing homes on the highways. He gets a lot of land and gets a billing house, only nobody lets him charge the toll, that's what happened because local self-government was removed. With this law she returns and must be in it because she knows best what is in her territory. Fear that there will be manipulations because there are councilmen who have such control over each other that they can hardly agree. At the very least, the state's attorney's office should finally be the last person to sign it. If someone has conducted the procedure in accordance with all the regulations, if he has followed all the procedures, should any councilman in a council receiving 150 kuna perhaps some fee for coming to the session be damaged for the reason that there is a councilman there? Well, he can be excluded from the decision-making process, but if he has all the conditions, if he's doing that job so why doesn't he get it, I don't see any reason. Well, we in Croatia have agreed that no one can do anything anymore. That's why it's such a political situation, no one's going to be in politics anymore, so God forbid you're somewhere, you're a criminal right now, you're a thief right now, you're all guilty right now, nothing's wrong. So let's look around, it happens to all of us every day. Here's what we do for ourselves. Let's stop that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49694	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the IDS-PGS-LRI Representatives Club, dear colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, respected ministers, state secretaries with associates. In front of us is the proposal for a new Law on Agricultural Land, which in the process of public debate has sparked an expected and justified great interest and, as the predecessors have said, it is certainly one of the most important laws that we will pass in this House. This is certainly based on Article 2 which states that "agricultural land is good for the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection". And I support all those who have said that this particular property should be protected, the interests of the Republic, national interests in order to simply protect that source of certain revenues. But so far, we can all determine that it wasn't like that. The land stands unprocessed, abandoned, villages are abandoned, young people leave the country, and the existing law makes it impossible for them to be available. We hope that by passing this law, agricultural land will finally be given to farmers who want to process it. The proposal for a new law includes a series of remarks made by the public in the public consultation procedure. The proposal for a law that was on the e-consultation regarding this bill has been substantially amended, in some articles for the better, and unfortunately in some of us the worse. We warned that the current law in which the agricultural land is in possession of the state was centralized, in such a way that the Agricultural Land Agency carried out the process of making available to that land would not bring the expected results and it proved that we were right. It was not expected that centralised availability would speed up any procedure and therefore we in the IDS are constantly speaking and warning that there is a need to decentralise as many functions as possible to speed up the procedures. And that's why I'm especially happy and happy today as IDS's that this is being heard from both the left and the right from the middle to decentralised things. And that is why we are pleased that the legislator has listened to the voice of the public and the profession and in the proposal for a new law, it is proposed that the availability of agricultural land be implemented through a programme for the availability of agricultural land owned by the state, by laying down competences to implement the units of local self-government. And I repeat, that certainly no one can know better than the municipalities and cities themselves the state of agricultural land and the interests of farmers in their territory. It turns out the agency certainly didn't. That's what we've warned from this place on many occasions. In Istria, units of local self-government brought programmes and placed agricultural land on them, competitions were conducted and land began to function. It was too difficult for the purpose of raising permanent olive groves and vineyards as well as for other agricultural cultures as well as for the needs of livestock farming. Putting aside the strength of these programmes and the centralised process of availability through the agency in Zagreb was the biggest error of the current law. This bill provides for the creation of new programmes, which we do not think is necessary because budget spending will be re-spended and time-consuming. Instead of drawing up new programmes, we propose that the existing programmes be updated, in accordance with the rules and on representative bodies of the units of local self-government, bring amendments and additions to the programmes so that units of local self-government are operational to implement the law as soon as possible. The draft law sets out deadlines that indicate the proposal that all participants in law enforcement are to be speeded up. It is thus proposed that the programmes available to agricultural land owned by the state as a basic instrument for the availability of agricultural land bring units of local self-government within three months of the date of entry into force of the law. If local self-government units don't do it for them, the county will do it. The programmes shall be subject to the consent of the Agricultural Land Agency, and the county shall have an opinion within 30 days. All this indicates that there will be no waiting for anyone else and that the implementation of this law must be a priority for all bodies, and we certainly welcome that because that is how we hear what we hear we reduce these administrative obstacles. Just for comparison imagine so far how it has been that the practice so far has been to call the agency's commission at the level of the agency in Zagreb where all the procedures have been carried out has taken more than a year. But there are still some things we want to point out, and first of all, Article 36 that says at the first lease of agricultural land the proposal is such that the existing tenant who has completed the economic programme, processes the land, is paying the rent neatly now, according to this bill, after the end of the contract, that land may lose. We find such a proposal inadmissible. In this law, it is proposed that the first right of the championship in front of so far's tenants and owners be an agricultural farmer who deals with livestock. It's just not practical. Can anyone imagine what it would look like if after the previous owner had a land on which permanent plantations, which bought the necessary machinery, were properly meeting his contractual obligations, he might have raised loans for the development of his agricultural holding now to lose that land and to belong to someone else. It is necessary and means other measures to help our cattlemen. Therefore, we suggest that in Article 36 the first two criteria be replaced, i.e. The order will be replaced so that the first line will always be the advantage of those who are neat, present tenants. When we set certain priorities, we should take particular account of the specificities of the sector. It is certainly necessary to stimulate the production of milk because the branch is in great crisis for a number of known reasons such as. the low purchase price of milk. Further significant reasons are certain and insufficient areas of agricultural land available to producers producing larger quantities of milk, so it is necessary to ensure by law that such producers are allowed to rent the sufficient areas of agricultural land needed for the production of livestock? Furthermore, we point to the specificity of organic production without the use of artificial fertilisers, herbicides and pesticides. Such production has far less production than traditional production, so it takes far more land to achieve the same results for such producers. We propose that, in the provision of Article 36, following the up-to-date administrative leasers, the right to lease in a public tender should be given to producers of milk and cattlemen engaged in organic production and thus, in this way, to build a law that would be fairer for us and would encourage sustainable development. A colleague, Prelac, mentioned some irregularities that are happening, and surely we will also support the Government of the Ministers to further introduce order for the implementation of all obligations to pay taxes, rents, concessions. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, through the provisions of this law, it is possible to contribute to removing the grey economy and increasing the efficiency of agricultural production. We therefore propose that a provision be put in place under which land leases of more than 20 hectares would be obliged to report annual income per hectare of the area of agricultural land used. In doing so, an agricultural producer with a declared income of less than 20 thousand kuna per year would not have the right to conclude new agricultural land lease contracts owned by the Republic of Croatia. A producer with income of less than 10 thousand kuna per hectare would break up existing lease agreements, which should be entered into in the provision of Article 43(4) of the Law as a reason for the termination of the existing contract. Because if he can't make that income, then he doesn't need that country either, so he needs it taken away. Do we agree, Minister? That's, the next thing we know, we want to take down or lift the administrative barriers. Where do we see another small obstacle in this law? In the draft law, Article 38(4) of the competent county attorney's office shall give its opinion within 30 days of receipt of the draft contract and the necessary documentation. We know it's never been like that before. The state's attorney's consent was too long. And now the question is, what if the state's attorney's office doesn't issue an opinion within 30 days? Is it considered that, like this, when you say it's binding, then we know that the State's Attorney's office will first say, we don't have enough people, we're going to need additional employment. Our proposal is and we think that it would be even better to prescribe that the State's Attorney's Office should be involved only in the event of irregularities because there are already enough laws for regulated control mechanisms, whether this is a spatial plan, whether the opinion of the county and the agency. In this way, the state's attorney's office is doing a double thing like the agency is turning into another agency. The State's Attorney's Office should be the one who will penalize and sanction those who have made a mistake in the full procedure. This is where we repeat the agency's affairs. And now I come to what I believe I will arrive, beyond what is unacceptable to us in Istria. Article 60(3) defines the coastal area, units of local self-government that have access to the sea, islands and peninsulas. This means that the continental part of Istria is not considered a continental area. Farmers from continental Istria thus have the right to buy 10 times the lower area of agricultural land owned by their counterparts in another continental county through a public tender. I have to ask why Istria is ignored again and placed in a subordinate position? This item is obviously written with this intention, because all the other islands and Peljesac peninsula all the municipalities have access to the sea, only in Istria half of the local self-government units have no contact with the sea and it is now in a subordinate position in the municipality that is in the continental part of Croatia. So we suggest that you just throw out of this article the islands and the peninsulas and let them remain units of local self-government that are on the coast. Next, the law proposes that agricultural land owned by a state can be sold on the basis of a public tender at a market price. It's us Istrians again put in an unfavourable position. The market price of land, agricultural land in Istria is 10 more than in some other parts of Croatia, making the entry costs for Istrian farmers much higher and affecting the competitiveness of the final product, yes, dear colleague. The fact is, here you get 10 weeks in Slavonia. Maximum 50 hectares for planting peas and producing peas, and in Istria can receive 1 hectare i.e. A maximum of 5 hectares. And it can get at a price of 5 euros or 3 euros per 3 euros, let's say it's in Istria, and in Slavonia it's 3 kuna. And now that we compare how competitive we're going to be, the difference between Malvasia and Beans. I think we live in one country and what they say, one country, one price, but if we go back a little bit, once the Ministry of Agriculture proposed by regulation and defined prices that were economically acceptable to farmers and so they were guaranteed an equal position. I still have a little time, I want to take advantage of this moment when we talk about the theme of agricultural land to point out the problem that units of local self-government are facing, someone mentioned it, and it refers to an unequal judicial bang of high courts in connection with the ownership and legal status of unbuilt construction land that was in social property mode until 1991. And which, according to the position of the High Court of Commerce, is considered to be owned by state and agricultural land. And according to the Supreme Court's position in a number of decisions made, they consider the ownership of local self-government units. At this point in time of the adoption of a new Agricultural Land Act, I believe that this should be unequivocally regulated in order to reduce legal uncertainty and remove harmful consequences for all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I would like to point out that in the IDS, PGS and Rijeka List, we are pleased to have joined this new law, primarily because in the current law, the availability of agricultural land owned by the state has been overly centralised. We believe that the greatest contribution of this bill is to transfer power to local self-government units in order to speed up and simplify the processes. He would commend one more thing, which is to introduce the possibility of replacing parcels with a rounding goal and that those plus minus 10% is the right measure. Therefore, the IDS, PGS and the List of Rivers believes that this bill has good foundations and therefore we are willing to support it in another reading, but if and only if these comments are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49696	I thank my colleague Tully for this debate. We have two replicas. First replica, honorary colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49697	Thank you very much. Dear Demetlik, from your debate, we already had a sense of all the problems in Istria at the end of the debate and when we look at Croatia so globally, there seems to be something less of a problem in Istria than elsewhere but absolutely third point to it. My replica refers to your story that is related to decentralisation. Decentralization is one convenient word, we use it quite often, quite often no matter where we sit in this assembly, left, right or center, we all advocate decentralisation. We absolutely need to know that Croatia has 556 municipalities and cities, and as our fingers are not all the same, they are not the same. Some are ready for situations, some are not ready. You pointed to the program and you said you didn't need everyone to bring in the program, but the existing programs that it has would be worth supplementing and everything else. And in that part is actually my replica, as all municipalities and cities are not properly prepared, so the introduction of the county element for those who do not need to do so should certainly make sure that we are not a burden. You're always a burden to the one who works. And always the one who does and who does something before then has to change, the one who hasn't done it is waiting. Therefore, regarding decentralisation, the desire to decentralisation, one of these elements I am sure and certainly would be the introduction of a provision that those who are programs or to bind themselves to a period of time or who are not older to be complemented, there is no need to work new programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49698	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. Answer Mr. Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49699	Here's my esteemed colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. You said, yes, that we have fewer problems, and now I'm going to make a little joke because the Assembly keeps calling themselves left and right, maybe it's lucky what IDS has been managing in Istria for 25 years and that we used the right moment when the law was so decentralised that we quickly and efficiently brought programs and succeeded with the incentives that we gave as cities, municipalities and counties that we co-financed the launch of these plantation activities, especially olives, wine vines and other cultures, with 66% while with grants farmers with 33. It is also our unity in Istria County, by forming and setting up the AZRI Agency as well as the agricultural fund where all units of local self-government by detachment of certain funds, an additional fund is created precisely for giving more favourable loans to farmers so that they are more favourable than those that can be obtained from banks because we know that the banks treat agriculture as a risky investment. And that's why I was surprised today that some MPs said that we should cut those funds from selling to the county, I don't think we should, but maybe we should even increase because of these units that you said, which don't have the ability to make these programs themselves, and that's exactly what these funds in the county are meant to be targeted. dedicated orientations towards the development of agriculture. So I'll repeat again, we're lucky that things are being decentralized, that we're being relegated to ourselves, and we believe that we'll be even more successful than the agency has ever been, i.e. State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49700	I thank my colleague Tully for his reply. We have another replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49701	Thank you, Vice President. Here was just not clear to me that part that you said, that unless there were 10,000 kunas of revenue per hectare, that you should break the contract, take away the land or. You mentioned 20,000 kuna. I don't know who has 10,000 kunas of these Slavs per hectare of income today, so I wouldn't want some people to understand it, as one minister said in history to plant and shine the crops that pay off, so some people literally figured it out, so they planted some forbidden ones and ended up in prison. I think it's income, I don't know what you mean, income or total gross income in that part. And as for the county, I think we're going to get a little complicated with the whole county story, because they're also sub-capacitated with the staff, they have another one of their own jobs that they have to do and they'll hardly be able and they'll even get involved in it, they'll probably use those 30 days to shut up, so they'll figure it out, unless the mayor has some interests in a particular part, and then he'll try to get involved, as was the case before, and you know how it all goes with us. I think that this process should be shortened as much as possible and time-consuming and that those programmes that have been made, and I think that mostly the programmes on the availability of agricultural land are well-designed, that they should be left in office, that time and money should not be lost, because this law gives authority to local self-government again, but I don't know with what means, because the fact is that no one has any money, especially local self-government, or for the most basic things, let alone now to develop new programs and to deal with. Try to relieve them as much as you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49702	I thank my colleague, Leonard. My colleague Tullia's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49703	Here's a thank you. I think it's simply one measure that we want to reduce this grey economy, i.e. working on black, selling on black. You today have various manufacturers that are, like, OPG, a family agricultural economy, you have companies that have everything registered. And this OPG creates unfair competition to a company that's probably a little bigger, a little stronger. Because this guy can sell on the doorstep, no bills, no applications, and he just doesn't pay any taxes. Furthermore, when reporting revenues, I say, income per hectare that must be over 20 and if it is less than 10,000 kuna per year, then it simply is not able to manage that land, with that hectare it can manage. Because if he doesn't make the income that way, then he better shut down the buty, they'd tell me. But that's all there is to it, because they all make bigger revenues, but it's a question of how much they report it. And that's why I support all those measures that will be encouraging, because these farmers, and today we're witnessing it, that we've seen and seen at all these years, that our farmers got incentives and then they took the second row, but then Mercedes was parked in front of the barn or that agricultural household, the incentive from the state came, and the reverse simple state had nothing. That's why we propose to introduce, it doesn't have to be 20 or 10, let the ministry work out some criteria, but the fact is that it has to be controlled and... where the State is to rent or sell that land, that certain revenue must be realised, because that is the objective, the achievement of the revenue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49704	I thank my colleague Tully for his reply. This is what we used up all the lines after the debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the club of GLAS and HSU representatives, respected colleague Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49705	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, two State Secretarys with Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. There's one, it's hard to say, important, more important, that we don't insult anyone at all, but an extremely important proposal for a law on agricultural land. We are also witnesses when you go to Zagreb or when you leave Zagreb, the fact that agricultural land is really not managed properly. I have already mentioned it, so I also use this opportunity to mention the fact once again, go to the website of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, there is one program called ISPAN, on this program you can compare what Croatia looks like. The last pictures and the last footage are somewhere in 2011 and 2014 respectively, and what it looked like in '68. And when you see what it was in '68. Then you see a land that was farmed, you see a land where it ruled, where there were beggars in the woods, and when you see today, you see a land that wasn't processed. I look at this law in the context of desire, to be better and to wish that what we have found is not good for us, to improve. This law and somehow it would be referred to, and somehow I read it in five groups. The first group is the maintenance and protection of agricultural land, where we point out that agricultural land should be used, that agricultural land should be put into operation, where we also warn private people that their agricultural land needs to be really, that it should be operational and that the question is, of course, that these are always good wishes and, of course, that the law often has some good wishes, but the question is then how and what. And in that part, I warn of a provision, Art. 4. which speaks of that cadastral particles item 5 within the boundaries of the construction area, which are greater than 500 squares you must process and we have in force parallel to this and the Law on Local Taxes. So the Law on Local Taxes, which is also in force, although the announcements that it will no longer be, you will be on such agricultural land on the one hand, defined to process it until it is brought forward in accordance with the spatial plan, and in the laws on local tax, you will have that land to be paid tax on undeveloped building land in accordance with that spatial plan, or as possible by that spatial plan. I am deeply hoping that the Law on Local Taxes in that section that speaks of real estate taxes will put it out of effect and it is well left with this provision where it is to be arranged, and one day a municipal fee should be paid in accordance with what is at that time on land, and not according to what is possible. Then we have a lot of other groups talking about the use of agricultural land. There's an excellent program that's in function that's ARCOD, I have to admit that in life as a spatial planner I used is great and there's that division of P1 and P2 that's absolutely fine, I don't mind. However, there is one problem, and this problem is that this P1 and P2 that is in this law and P1 and P2 that we have in the spatial plans of the county and the spatial plans of the municipalities are often different P1 and P2 and we come up with serious dilemmas which are worth it. Is this worth it from the ARCOD, is it worth it from a spatial plan and is it worth what's simpler for us? And here I come to the point that the law has good intentions, and then it's a question of what it's all about. In this regard, however, some provisions should be amended in the law, but they should be taken into account through implementation. All spatial plans will be worked through the ISP in the future through this system and therefore it should be taken into account that P1 and P2 is what is in the ARCOD which is the same in the agency as P1 and P2 which is in the spatial plans of the municipalities and in the spatial plans of the counties. When we had a discussion on the board, then the secretary of state who was there looked at me and said you would be pleased because there was no more agreement on spatial plans than opinions. Indeed, this subject of consent has brought a lot of trouble to you, including space planners. I know that there is a good custom or a bad practice to say so that what the opposition says or when it gives some amendments is generally not accepted, but consider the provision of Article 18 and the provision of Article 19. In the provision of Article 18, you are talking about the opinion and you are saying that an opinion is given on the country's spatial planning strategy and programme. The country's spatial planning program no longer exists, so by adopting the Law on Spatial Planning that has entered into force and we've changed it we no longer have a spatial arrangement program, we only have a strategy. I suppose that the resolution ministry when it was bringing in or when it was giving consent might have overlooked and it would be good to have the provision of Article 18. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to go in there, but it would be a good idea for the provision of Articles 18 and 19 to be a provision. We have a strategy of spatial development that is in the agenda of the assembly some point of 70th, and a spatial state plan is therefore a strategy, a state spatial plan only for the purity and consistency of the space. Now we're coming up with a topic that we've opened up here, and we're coming up with a topic of decentralisation and a topic where actually municipalities and cities really have the right to manage their own land. You know, it's a big difference, or you kind of think a little differently when you're in one function, so you're protecting the interests of the state, or you're trying to protect the interests of the municipalities and cities somehow. And there's this whole chapter that talks about the re-use of agricultural land and says that it's a re-use, who's doing a re-use in which cases we come to the provision of Article 25(6), which says "the funds achieved from the compensation for the change in purpose are the state budget of 70% and 30% of the local self-government units, or the city of Zagreb, in whose area agricultural land is located". This agricultural land is located in the area of local self-government units, the whole of these re-use procedures are being done by the office. The same re-purpose is happening with them, and I think we've come to the option, or we've come to the variant that I'd like it to be the other way around. I'd like 30% to go to the state and 70% to local self-government units. For what reason? decentralisation is as I have already said in the replica I gave my colleague Tulli Demetliki is a handsome word, but we like to decentralisation jobs, we like to decentralisation commitments, and very hard or almost decentralize funds. So it would be extremely good to try and decentralise the funds, which is something that is the area of the units of the regional self-government, or municipalities and cities, and it would be good to decentralise both these funds and have the ability to manage them. When you look at the original budgets of some of our units of local self-government, you stay as little as possible. The provisions of Article 26 refer to the exemption of compensation. And now here we have when it comes to infrastructure it's always okay and I think it's extremely good that we put these housing buildings up to 400 square meters if they're built within the building area and I think it's something that's good at one hour we've discussed and discussed. There is one topic that has often appeared in the media, which is the topic of land sales and this is the topic when unprocessed land, which is a private owner and which is not in function can be leased. And here absolutely speaking can't be planting permanent plantations and can't be building objects. I think she's fine. And we at the club also think it's a good variant that the more land is given in the ability to process for a simple reason if the land is what you have, the more land you have is a lasting value. We have indeed this year, which is extremely good because not because we were very good and very smart and very capable but because dear God is giving you something else. So it was good in terms of weather, we had a great tourist season. But the result of this excellent tourist season at the end, unfortunately it will not be, will not result in what would be logical, which is by increasing and developing agriculture, but will result in the development of imports. I remember for a long time, and I remember when I was in elementary school and high school, then we were learning in another way than kids are learning now and then we were talking about those trains that were out of order or people who were out of the field of debris, from the coastal area, going to Slavonia for the country. Today people from Slavonia go to that, there's a joke about it actually... And they're moving out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Earth is no longer a value on which you can do something. That's the one, that's how I experience this law, the desire to be better, the desire to change that, because that's just something we have to apply. We have resources that are valuable, these resources that are worth putting into operation. In the context of that, I'm one of those who's not afraid to sell agricultural land whenever it's possible, because I don't see why we need to be afraid that someone should come, that someone would be, that someone would invest, wouldn't take away. You know, when someone invests in land that's in the territory of Croatia, when someone, I always, of course, tie it to my profession. You know when someone builds an object there, he doesn't take it, he stays there and remains the value that's there. And I think the time has come for us to start thinking and talking. There are other provisions that are quite interesting and are related to the rights of construction. These are the provisions of Article 76 of the Agency's work and the way it gives rights to construction. Well, there, I'd be a little bit more liberal than you are, but there's absolutely one step that's actually been made to improve the situation we have. In conclusion, really when you're in line 7 or 8 as a club then everything is already said and without wanting to repeat everything my predecessors said is next. It's about an extremely important law, it's about a law that I'm experiencing in a way that we want to improve the stables. It's a law I'm experiencing that we want to point to an alarming state related to large amounts of unprocessed, unregulated agricultural land that is falling apart, becoming schizophres. It's a particular theme in the coast. I used to wonder when you watch a bit of fire, why the fires go on most of our islands, and the fires are very, very rare on Korčula. My colleague Bačić is from Korčula. Why? Because it's one of the islands where they decided not to sell their land for the construction of apartments, they were bringing their land for use, bringing agriculture. The island that's the most processed of these islands. And then it's no wonder that it's the island where you have the least fire for the simple reason that and the fires we have today are the result of unprocessing, especially when it comes to detour. Because, of course, pine is not something that's indigenous, but it's created because of unprocessing. But the same way when you get a chance to see these floods, it's the same result. We support the efforts made in this law, of course our desire and our intensity to be better. Absolutely and here in the debate there were a series of things that we can agree on and in relation to the topic of spatial planning documentation really make one small, it's nothing sensational, two articles to do in one and really be the way it should be and when we come to another reading that maybe you get some better term, the morning terms are much more convenient than these afternoons not only because we're tired but also because somehow there are more colleagues and then they're much more ambitious, because that's the one you're seeing in which you have cameras and then they're sure that they might get their minute in one of the journals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49706	I thank my colleague, Anki Dark Tarritash, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49707	Dear colleagues, at one point you said that you think differently when you're in one function and different when you're in another function. When you were the Minister of Construction when we discussed these land problems and which were within the building areas and which were located outside the construction areas and the way the state enlisted on this land and when we taught you the amendments here you did not want to accept this kind of thinking that he was talking about just before and Mr Tulio Demetlika. So this is for the first time as far as I am in politics, and I am a few years old and at the top of the line that someone is just thinking about how this ministry led by Minister Tolusic now is doing, that however, the units of local self-government and that they know the situation on their own, that they know best how to dispose of land and that what matters is that they make sure that they put the land into operation as soon as possible. And I'm saying this for a reason because you ran a resort that gave us all consent to both the spatial plans and then and now, and here I am using the opportunity and the minister to learn about that government regulation where the state practically per se, in violation of that agreement on the succession of the former Yugoslavia, was enlisted in something that wasn't its property. In land books, in the cataster, the grantovnica wrote the ownership of units of local self-government and the legal successor were cities and municipalities. The state's attorney's office is without agreement, without question the units of local self-government without respecting the spatial plans that we all had to make by 2006 regularly booked by the Republic of Croatia and now we're in this problem where we are. And that even if the state gave us this land after a lot of peripetia, we have to pay for the deforestation and forest-economic grounds, and I don't know what kind of procedure we're doing for land that we could have put into operation long ago. I mean, this is what I've just expressed myself for saying that you're thinking differently in one position and different in another, I believe you're thinking the same way I am now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49708	I thank my colleague, Klaric, for the replica. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49709	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, I said that the moment I started talking about compensation. But I am absolutely taking the opportunity to refer to both the booking problem and the state's attorney's problem. From the pay phone, I think my colleague Demetlika mentioned the State's Attorney's Office, mentioned it but relatively gently. I can say here that for the first time in the Construction Act, we said when a solution is not known whether it is state or municipal, it is not really a reason that this land cannot be dispose of, but should be dealt with in another process. But this is what I've been saying about the legal fees. So, I was defending the Law on Legalization at the time, that Law on Legalization was really, I dare say today the first true decentralisation, we gave the job, we gave the funds. And that's when I defended 50% of the state's resources for the simple reason that something should be done, 20% goes to the local self-government units, and 30 goes to the space where it happens, so I actually refer to this 70-30, and I'd really like it to be the other way around because you have one different, you know, when you're on one side, one thing you see, and when you're on the other side you see everything, then once you see both sides. It seems to me that when it comes to the re-use of agricultural land that it would be incomparably better if more resources were to the units of local self-government for the simple reason that really, when you look at the original budgets of local self-government units, I see the original budgets of certain municipalities that are at 800 thousand kunas or 1 million, I wonder how they actually manage to live and survive, and we have them. And when you ask how much your source is, you think someone told them something wrong. This reuse of agricultural land seems to me to be a good model and should be given to more municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49710	I thank you for your response to my dear colleague, Mrak-Taritash. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of HSS Representatives Club colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49711	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here on behalf of the HSS Club, we'll share the time of my colleague Leonard and I, since Mr. Mader had to attend a meeting. If you please, the HSS Club has discussed this proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land and welcomes that it has finally seen the light of day and came here for debate in the Croatian Parliament although we are transferring from the field a dissatisfaction which has already been here, for almost 2 years our OPGs have been waiting for this law because it has been announced by both the former minister and this minister and here, it is good that he is in the debate today. The desire is for us from the HSS to be finally adopted as soon as possible, to be at the service of all OPGs, of all producers in the Republic of Croatia, and to speed up the procedures so that the tender can be opened as soon as possible, because the fact is that in the last year, two have not been awarded, that little has been carried out by the Agency for Agricultural Land and these have been carried out by competitions in that model for cattle farmers where enough of our OPGs have been unsatisfactory or have come into possession and use of agricultural land on the basis of those confirmations of peacefully owned to which, sometimes strangely, there has always been a reserve whether it was really peaceful possessions, why one OPG or one company could get land in possession, and not others. We want this not to happen in the future, we want a clean bill, we want us all to be equal before the law, to be transparent in law enforcement, so I also replicated my colleagues Križanić that it is unacceptable for us in HSS that there is no quality record that these economies pay rent and which they do not, and we welcome the initiative of course because it has always been the HSS programme to make available to state agricultural land and competitions carried out by units of local self-government, their municipal councils and commissioners because they know best in the field who is the serious producer, who is the agricultural producer and who is the mechanic. We're just trying to avoid the mixers, and so we're asking for the transfer of documentation that now the agency will return to local self-government units to create a clean bill that didn't pay the rent, who didn't pay the tax, that they don't have the opportunity to participate in future competitions. Also, what I have warned and what many on the ground comment on is that state agricultural land has happened in a way that they have written a quality economic programme and that then, often it is such an impression on the ground, that no one has controlled whether this economic programme is implemented, whether this economy really has 50 or 100 cows or 100 pigs, or that it is as pure as that of its neighbour who could not reach the state agricultural land. And if that were true, here I was also confirmed on the Committee on Agriculture by the Secretary of State, that over 800 users of state agricultural land through these last tenders for cattle, had the opportunity to apply for contracts and only 234 submitted a request or only 3 and a half thousand hectares. What about those remaining 700, 800? How will they be treated in future tenders and will they return those support and receive support for the same land because they have entered it into the ARCOD? Have we thus allowed equal access to all economies to be equally competitive and accessible to state agricultural land? We didn't. And that's why we're asking for it to be cleared up. There is also a major object from the field related to organic farming, especially for multi-annual plantations, because on the war areas, hectares and hectares of nuts and other multi-annual plantations, which are neither processed nor the state benefits from it, nor the community, and for sure that there is dissatisfaction and warlords and herdsmen, which is, in this way, arable, agricultural land transformed into multi-annual crops that do not process and grow weeds in them and spreads its game and spreads the pests of others from these areas to processed agricultural areas. The one where we also want to point out that there is more law to be done. And this is exactly the part that colleagues mentioned, that through decentralisation of commitments, I lower obligations to municipalities, cities and counties, financial decentralisation should also be resolved, capacity building, municipalities, cities and counties. And this financial part. And I think that by the second reading we should think about that, the share of the funds belonging to the municipalities, cities and counties of this part, and from the sale of both the lease and the concession and the re-use of agricultural land. Because why is it that 70% would go to the state and 30% to local self-government units, I think there can be a compromise there to make more units of local and regional self-government. It is also unclear, and this is what our agricultural producers are asking for, that the minister responds, because before the very reference of the bill to the government and my contacts with associations and producers, we welcome them, to consult them, it was announced that they would have the advantage of, what we advocate, the domestic population, because it is primarily their grandfathers who were taken away from them. Now they just want to return their land through a legal lease or purchase contract, and those who are primarily engaged in agricultural production, live on agriculture, have no other sources of income. Of course it should also be possible for cattle to reach the country, and here the minister has changed it and now more points are being given to cattlemen. So our proposal would be then if we already need cattlemen, and we need help, because we lost 65% of the dairy producer in the Republic of Croatia, we need to help that production rise, then to that quota, how much they lack to the nitrate directive. So he doesn't take 50 or 100 acres, but only as much as he misses to satisfy the nitrate directive, so he gets more points. I think it would also be appropriate to be satisfied with both warlords and cattlemen, and we know that there is an interest in both of them for the state agricultural land. When it comes to young people, we in HSS advocate that the Ministry and Government come up with a model, how to encourage young people, and we have heard that there are over 10% holders of family farms in Croatia, to stay engaged in agricultural production. And especially those who from urban backgrounds want to go back to the country and live on agriculture to see the models. Because Maria Teresa too knew how to find models to attract residents to the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. So let's let this government find a model to bring it into line with the State's Attorney's office and other competent ministries, to give them land for use without compensation if they want to deal with agriculture, in these areas. To bring life back to those areas. And what we should also say is that we have a lot of women who are holders of family farms. They were not touched by this law. The proposal is for the HSS to get more points from women's families to compete in national agricultural land tenders. I think it was also pointed out yesterday by the representatives of the European Commission, i.e. the Committee on Agriculture, that where our wife is in agriculture, if we give them enough room. We at HSS are in favour of this model, that up to 2 readings should be considered from the model of rewarding women-leading economies and thus would certainly contribute to the development of agriculture in our areas. And I have to mention fishing, freshwater fishing, where it's a request from the owner, or the tenants of the ponds, not to pay double fees and rent and a fee for using water, to pay all the rent, because they pay it anyway. And also, since we have climate change and great damage to agriculture, my Ship-Posavina County has declared an elemental drought. One of the models that we can help them, in this year, the state is giving up their lease. Because it certainly won't be possible for everyone to take that 5-2 measure, and out of this 20 million kuna, how much of a country has damages to its elemental disasters, it won't get anything. Especially since they haven't been paid that eco rent, for the damages of fish birds. And I think our freshwater fishermen deserve it. But, of course, to consider warlords, who have suffered great damage from drought, to be helped in a certain way. There's so much for now, and the rest of it's going to be a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49712	I thank my colleague Vlaovic. I'm a colleague of Lenart's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49713	Thank you, Vice President. I will quickly try to explain this part about the possibility of agencies, that I can give private land which is unprocessed in lease or put it into function. Let me remind you that a certain number of years ago, the HSS went with such a bill. Unfortunately, the group in Croatia put it in the Constitutional Court and unfortunately it did not pass in the Constitutional Court because I doubt it will pass now. Because as far as we know the Constitution is above the law, so private property is inalienable and I don't think this whole story is going to pass, it's going to be kind of torn down. I'd like to look back on common pastures. They have a name in common, and we here now give them the opportunity to rent them a natural person. And you know how it will end, if one person gets a common pasture, he'll tell the other cattlemen, I'm sorry the pasture is mine, you can't take your cattle to the pasture, which is called common pasture. That's what HSS has done many times and talked about pasture communities. There have been some attempts, but it has never come to life. We believe that common pastures should remain common to all those who grow cattle in a particular unit of local self-government and have the right to shepherd their cattle and to find a model to do so means that they can take it or a cooperative in which they all have the right to engage, not a natural person who will not allow others. As for the rounding up of agricultural land. We have cases that I have on my own example, that I bought five acres of land where there were eight owners of 12 plots, and now that I'd created one technological unit of five acres to make it as a single particle, it cost me more than I probably paid for that land. If we want to round up the land, if we want to change that statistics that is in Croatia that we are very thin, that we have small parcels, and I think that on the ground is a little different in reality situation, I think we also need to find a model in this law of these boundaries of cadastrian particles in creating into a single particle. However, since livestock farming is one of the consumers of agricultural products means corn, soybeans, wheat, barley and other products used in cattle, however, it should be kept in mind that some people have built their own properties, invested a lot of money, turned their families into production, bought machines so that it might not happen now that some cattlemen have so much right to have others destroyed. So building someone's survival on someone's doom is never good, so I think neither here nor here should try to find a model to take care of it in this law. A 10-hectare particle can be bought as per the bill, 50 hectare overall. There may also be particles in the Republic of Croatia that are more than 10 hectares, and I think if that maximum is 50 hectares, then let that particle be 50 acres maximum. I don't think that's gonna change anything, and it's gonna solve some of the problems that might arise. There were also suggestions that other units of local self-government could take land in the area of another unit, I don't think that's good, because here units of local self-government were given the authority to manage land and that it was something that would lead to interference. And 50km away from the plot, those who work with a big tractor, no matter what tractors go 50km/h today, but when you put on it two, three, four tons of heavy connection on our roads doesn't go 50km. Transport 50km is very far and it is definitely invaluable, 20km of some kind maximum where to go to farm land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49714	I thank my colleague Lenart and my colleague Vlaovic for these discussions. We have three replicas of the first replica of the esteemed colleague Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wanted to replicate Mr. Vlaovic because I don't understand why you're replicating me about not paying the rent. In fact, I made it very clear that I welcome the return of land supplies to local self-government units, that they will monitor a programme of agricultural land availability and full control of rent collection. Next, I said it's inadmissible that we today don't know how much land the rent is paid for and that millions of incentives are collected. And now I don't understand what you disagree with, or you said you'd be replicating me. When you were talking about agreeing to give the farmers of the country and how much it takes to get to the Nitrate Directive, that's exactly how much this law means that cattlemen should be given priority only to those cattlemen who lack countries. That's the answer of a fellow Hungarian model of existing cattlemen. So we would have to preserve existing cattle if they didn't fail, that's the urgency of giving cattle to cattlemen. Whether it's 20, 30 or 50 kilometers is very irrelevant and less important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49716	I thank my colleague Križanić. The answer of my colleague Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49717	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Križanić, you said in your debate that agricultural producers would be competitive if they had to have state agricultural land and we agree there, but they are not equally competitive if he was paying rent for his agricultural land and rent and concession, and some others are not, then they are not competitive and are not in the same status. And that is why I insisted once again that this system be regulated because it is impossible for the Agency for Agricultural Land, Ministry and other state bodies to resolve this problem to match the records and to know who paid and who did not. I also mentioned the problem of cattlemen who were given the country in the last competition, as I say by the criteria of who had more red tractors, and over 600 of them did not apply to contract with the agency for the same land. Are they still cattlemen, then are those other cattlemen who worked neatly and kept the cattle equally competitive with them? Well, of course they're not, and there's got to be order, because finally in this country, the legal system has to work and our agricultural producers who do agricultural production suffer because of those who didn't pay then they go with the dumping prices of their products and can't be competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49718	I thank my colleague Vlaovic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vlaovic, you said that we have been waiting for two years and that we finally have the law there, but also... I doubt when the law will start to apply. I will refer to Article 103(1), which states that the Government will adopt two regulations and bring the existing ones in line, as well as in paragraph 2 of the same article that the Minister will adopt more than 10 regulations, even 16 within 6 months. The fact that the deadlines are mentioned we know here is at least six months from law-making, so far experience has shown that the rules are either not even passed or are being passed late, which surely leads to the inequitableness of the law. And the other thing when mentioning counties in the law itself, is it necessary to define later on who issues an opinion, whether it's a representative body, whether it's an executive body or whether it's a competent department, is if I wait for a representative body's meeting, then it's every three months, and I think it's precisely that deadline to adopt that opinion. So we're still on deadline, and it'll still be a year before we can get through it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49720	I thank you for the replica of my colleague Demetlika. The answer of colleague Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49721	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Demetlika, I've expressed my suspicion of speed and all our agricultural producers want to see the first competition as soon as possible so they can report to the competition. It's September 21st, St. Mattia, we're going to have to pray and St. Matija and the other saints, until next year, to St. Matiums are scheduled for first competitions. You have well noticed that a number of regulations and regulations have to be adopted and I have asked on the Committee on Agriculture how many regulations are in preparation, more than 10 regulations and other sublegal acts are in preparation and whether they will be completed until the programmes are made available to state agricultural land in municipalities and they cannot bring available programmes unless the rules are adopted as implementing regulations and help our mayors and mayors to make programmes. Someone has already mentioned, we have programmes available to state agricultural land that our municipalities, cities and counties have made, only 74 municipalities and the city haven't built a program so here's an opportunity to invite the Ministry to press them or bring the program or if someone in their name brings it and they don't, that then their cost goes to it. That's why I talked about bringing down and decentralisation of financial resources because there will be additional costs for both municipalities and counties while the agency is disbursing parts of jobs. So in that sense, I certainly agree with you that it is a long procedure and I think it can be used to make use of the existing programmes available to the state agricultural land of municipalities and cities, that it doesn't take 90 days, that we can cut this deadline to 60 days to speed up the procedure. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49722	I thank my colleague Vlaovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49723	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vlaovic, there is no reason to disagree with everything you said, but I want to ask you very clearly now do you support those demands that we made in the debate? I'm talking about the MOST club. So first, I'm going to say just some, firstly, that the deadline stated in the law, if the tenant doesn't pay the rent by the end of September of the current year, that the lease is automatically interrupted, that this deadline is not a good one, especially in the case of the milkman, because even under the provisions of the Implementing Law, they have no other income but the money they receive from the purchase of milk. Their account's been blocked, their money's gonna be arrested, they're gonna have more units of local self-government coming in, they're gonna take their last. And then what do they have left? The second thing, the sale of land to foreigners, according to the disposal programme, can provide up to a quarter of the land in local self-government units for sale. It can also be purchased by a natural person from the Republic of Croatia. But who guarantees she won't sell it to a stranger afterwards. Do you support the fact that the legal proposal now protects the issue from being allowed to do so? Finally, the question of the termination of the agreement relating to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. That's the order, here is mentioned in the law only bankruptcy proceedings, we have pre-banking deals and we have a special law lex Agrokor so-called. Why not put it into the law to protect itself, to keep the land extremely valuable land from being bought by foreigners in such a way as to buy certain businesses. Here's to those three points if you agree and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49724	I'd like to thank my colleague Sagar on the replica. And my colleague Vlaovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49725	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Žagar, of course, that members of the HSS and I personally support any proposal that goes to benefit and benefit the family farms, and only with them are we in favor, although they often do not vote for us. But we continue to defend exactly the OPGs and the chance for them to reach agricultural land and protect national interests because, in cooperation with the HSS family holdings, it has been required to provide 7 years of moratorium for the sale of the country to foreigners plus 3 years after that if we have legitimate reasons. And now it's a good-looking opportunity, there's no minister, but the secretary of state is there whether the ministry has started working on whether and when it will make a request for three more years because we see that most of our family economies have not yet provided sufficient agricultural land for their production. Of course we agree on these other suggestions of yours, and we will try here together through the amendments unless the Proposer accepts it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49726	I thank my colleague Vlaovic for his reply to the replica. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia's respected colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49727	Dear Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the respected colleagues and colleagues, and above all, the respected citizens who follow us. This is being announced as a very important law. The question arises when someone puts the bill in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament which is the goal or which are the objectives of such a law. I've been wondering all along what the key purpose of this law is. The promoter said it wanted to increase the efficiency of agricultural production, to increase the area, the processing area, that the penalties of those who do not process, that those who want to process it could work on and private property, which we heard was simply an injury to the property, that it was impossible. I've worked hard as an economist to find here, to assess how much this law will actually have positive aspects, consequences, because as you know I don't speak without arguments, I wouldn't simply be my, my basic interest, calling to speak with arguments. Well, here's what I'm gonna do with those arguments. So the idea is good but I think we from the party too change Croatia, so the patriotic party that is socially sensitive and it is facing the future we want to talk about it in an argument. I can personally talk about agriculture because I'm a country kid, I was born in the country and I lived there for a long time and I'm a Slavonic son-in-law, too. So I know the situation very well. I read more and more Stjepan Radić as he talked about all the villages in Croatia because it is the only way you can understand how the peasant lives and what his problems are. And I, gentlemen, assure you and everyone who listens to me, is not a problem in the agricultural land in Croatia, but who will even process it. The whole agricultural policy is turned against the peasants. And especially the small owner. So here I am just discussing here with my colleague Demetliko about the black market in agriculture, so the peasant must also serve the O.P.G. peasants a part of the gray economy because the system is official against him. He's not friendly, he's not stimulating. He drives him to a gray economy. So how will the positive results of all this come true? So here's a few, so how do we leave the unprocessed land in operation? That's a very important question. If, first of all, you can't process other people's land, no matter what it doesn't work, if you're going to punish a man who doesn't farm land, so he's gone to Ireland, Germany, moved out, so what exactly are you doing to this law? You're also pushing what's left of what's usually agricultural policy against, you're additionally punishing and moving on. Think about it, gentlemen, I advise you not to punish. People will work with joy any surface if they see an economic calculation, if they see the meaning of it. The jurisdiction of the country's assignment is being returned, as people say, to local communities, to the mayors, not to tell the sheriffs instead of having the central agency doing so in Zagreb or Osijek, perhaps in Osijek, so again, a suitable climate is being created for the spread of clientelism. But I'm asking one question, so it's asking for an answer. In 27 years of Croatian independence, this law is changed 27 times, so each year at a time. So what it's saying is, it's a great illustration that there are no consistent policies, agricultural policies and in this context and policies towards agricultural land. Because if someone changes land every year on average, it's a decommissioned state, you understand. So the policy of encouragement and everything else, and it was enough to look at, say, Austria with an incentive to altitude. I don't have time to talk about it, you could talk a lot about it because I've read it, but there's going to be a chance to talk about it. Gentlemen, before the war, taxes on land were paid and 2 million hectares of land were processed in Croatia. Today, there is no tax in independent Croatia and about 850,000 hectares of land are being processed. Now, why? So when taxes were paid, taxes were paid, and processed, and today when taxes are not paid, they are not processed and evicted. Well, that's, that's the perfect sign that we don't have quality, consistent, agrarian politics, policy towards the village. Those are arguments, that's what the eyes are. Now, the law therefore mentions what needs to be connected is the possibility of buying land. When we remember that the land-sale moratorium in line with EU legislation and promises expires in 2020, then they cannot link it to the Agrokor case. Does anyone think it's an accident? Someone will say so to Lovrinovic, you're also trapped by conspiracy theories. It's too big a coincidence here, gentlemen. You can see how that time-collects. Agrokor handles about 31 hectares in Slavonia and Baranja, it is a huge part compared to such a small part. I think we're clear here. These days I'm trying to ask from this pay phone, get answers to those questions, but the government is deafening, and I think there's going to be a day when they're going to have to answer those questions. So what is possible here when it comes to agricultural land law as proposed? It is possible that those owners in preparation, I call them owners in preparation, after the decomposition of the Agrokor case, they are about to take over concessions on that country, about 31 thousand acres, and then... provides the opportunity to buy it, and I stress to you, it is the most fertile land in Croatia, 31 thousand hectares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must strongly oppose it, the party Change Croatia will surely oppose, and then let the people in the country see who is fighting for their interests. Stjepan Radic said the worst thing is the greatest sin for a politician if he brings his people before the final act and it is the greatest sin. And I totally agree with that. It would not even be controversial if we were a different people and if it were a different climate, but look at the Danes, Hungarians, Slovenians, Romanians and others, they were well protected from such phenomena, that is, the possible sale of agricultural land to foreigners by creating various barriers, obstacles in a way that must first be a resident of the country for 5 years or that on the property of 25 years and the Danes prescribe it, etc., etc. Now I'm asking you those who sold our banks, teleopers, insurance companies, INA, so they're going to sell land and water. You think he won't? So our people say, "Forgive this expression, and they would sell their fathers if they could earn money, for them the national interests of the last hole were played." Well, against that, so we're against it, because this law has this channel, possible abuse, and therefore needs to be resolved. But if someone asks and says, well Agrokor has a concession, no one can take it, under the applicable law, it's possible by taking these picks to a concession, it says there in exceptional conditions, but it can. And all that was in Croatia so far was a sign that it could, unfortunately, it did exist at our expense. So in a corrupt country like this, where the judiciary doesn't work, where the land is now cheap, because people have moved out, they're fighting for life, and the authorities aren't taking care of the national interest. There are many possibilities for abuse. Well, here's to getting back to the law a little bit more. Look in the proposal, I don't know who wrote it, gentlemen, I think it's Art. 62. Why do you express prices in euro? What country did you come from? You're violating the sovereignty of this country, as far as I know, still worth the kuna. You may have lost it because everyone's been comparing something for years, but please, if you are, you can, I know this law will pass, because you have more hands, but you're breaking yourself, you're not a patriot. What do we suggest? What does the party suggest to change Croatia? So I'm not just here to criticize, so you see how many arguments I've made. We suggest that young families, who are ready to stay in Croatia, offer free rent or concession, 10, 20 years, to be offered free of charge. And not with any payment... protecting means turning demographic trends, but above all, agricultural policy must be such that when a peasant produces something, that he can sell, that's the most important question, and these are secondary issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this context, the parties change Croatia, there is a completely different concept, which we will relate to agriculture, we will soon present to the public by experts. Politics and the next thing I want to say. Major property policy in Croatian agriculture has failed gentlemen's policy. You thought it was enough to have 2, 3 companies, big owners in Slavonia and Baranja and that it would solve the problem by principle of economics, volume, economy. And you see how one big firm gets stuck. So what do you want to do now? And then people move out. There is no agriculture in Croatia, there is no property that can be competitive with European agriculture, without speaking further, there is no. There's no market agriculture, there isn't. The sooner we figure it out, the more I realize it, the more we realize it, the more my party realizes it, but understand, please, you too. We must develop the economy of small property in Croatia, well subsidized, publicly or in secret, as well as in all our competing countries, this is how it is done. Again, I cite the example of Austria, other countries, Slovenia, Hungary. So we have to have a clear vision, what to do, when it comes to agriculture. For Mr. Minister Tolusic, I've seen, I feel in him a charge of patriarchal that a man wants to do something. However, you saw something pull and I when I was talking when I... That 500 million kunas were imported from Brazil with meat of some quality, he launched an investigation, but ate the donkey wolf. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did you see that someone got hurt, that someone was being punished, that someone was in jail? You're not. Now that imports were to be re-controlled, of all kinds of troubled agricultural goods, man went, again to do something, and his head of government, he just immediately took it aside and nothing. I'm not going to deal with these issues of government relations and ultimately just to say it again. This law, unfortunately, is being discussed a lot, 27 times it is changing, it will mean nothing to the transformation in the country to turn in a positive direction. It will simply lead to day-to-day demographic distortions, demographic structures in Croatia, will not increase efficiency and I simply do not understand why it is changing at all, except what I said, which is problematic, and that is the liberalisation of the sale of agricultural land, arable land to foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49728	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. I would only beg you to call the terminology that the local unit leader and regional self-government call sheriffs. I don't think she's worthy, she's not fit in this whiskey house. We have a few replicas. The first to answer the line, dear colleague Steve Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49729	Your Honor, Vice President. I understand your skepticism for everything, according to all those who led our country, the ministries in some directions, and that's why we're where we are, I understand that. I share in most things that opinion with you. I'll look back at those sheriffs you said, local, because at one point I was playing sheriff in one of those local communities, so we shared 500 acres of land in the Jarmin municipality, and there were about 30 people registered to that contest. Everyone was happy and overjoyed, that they gave me most and all the votes, and that's why I'm here. Who can understand their community's problems better than local self-government? And that's what they tell you through this document that I have, because in my time it's been shared 30 last acres in our community, and then they're involved in that finger of Minister Jakovina and a company that, by chance, bought his debt from his company. And so those who were on the commission for the contest canceled the competition because the law that directly affected that company was passed, which bought his debt in such a way that they introduced a centurion of points per piece of cattle into the contest. So the company fictitiously moved cattle from one farm to another and thus unfoundedly received more points than the commission put together for the decision to undo if it had figured out what the problem was. ... I'll be brief. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On 15 June 2015, the Administrative Council of the APZ decided to repeal the decision and on the same day made a decision to award the lease despite the Commission's proposal. In one day, three decisions made by Mr. Jakovina for his firm.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49730	I'd like to thank my colleague Cule for the replica. My colleague Lovrinović's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49731	Just for a little while, not all the mayors and mayors are sheriffs. When the sheriff says it's meant to be those who just do it the other way, if that's what you realize then maybe I wasn't clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49732	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic. The next call came from a respected colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49733	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you have expressed your skepticism from this pay phone regarding a provision that says that if it is a land that we do not know who is the owner that can be leased and on a special account these funds from the lease with what cannot be for permanent plantations and for building buildings cannot be made on that land. We have an unsettled situation in the space, an unsettled situation related to the catastre, an unsettled state connected to the garland. The fact is that this provision really needs to be seen on the legal side and everything else. However, I would not be able to agree with you, you have expressed your skepticism and have immediately condemned such a provision or such a set of provisions to fail. We do have an unsettled situation in the room. Not only do you have a different situation in the catastrus and grantovnica related to construction areas but also agricultural land. You also have a property situation that has not been registered by the owners at all. It seems to me that it's incomparable to me that if it's about the land that you see the interest that it's better to rent, that the funds go into a special account, that it's not burdening that land, that it's trying to go with it because if we never try to take a step forward we'll always spin around in circles. We did so in one regulation when I was a minister or at the time this House passed a law in which it was said that if you have a ruin that unit of local self-government if you can't determine who owns it or doesn't want it, it's dangerous for life, health and everything else, you can crash, the unit of local self-government can crash, so enter into private property and even charge yourself from the owner, it's still in effect. As far as I know, there was some sort of inquiry to the constitutional court, but the constitutional court left it in effect. Let's give this law a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49734	I'd like to thank my colleague, Mr. Dark-Taritant, on the line. My colleague Lovrinović's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49735	Dear colleague Tarritash. I repeat again, all who have participated in the past 27 years in the agricultural policy, and the 27th time the Agricultural Land Act is changed, so we must declare them a failure and enemy of the village. So you'd better not get involved with them. I advise you. On the other hand, you may be right when it comes to land that is in the area of war - devastation, perhaps there is something possible to connect. But look, now you've given me a reason to say something about it. But that's not what the key problems are about, not what they're doing right now? Now, for example, some parties such as Mr Hasanbegovic and his colleagues, Esih, such as Mrs Zeljka Markic, are now putting the problem of national minorities, the Serb national minority, as far as anyone should be... crucial to the formation of the government, maintain stability, and you know with what goal? Just to take us away from these issues like Agrokor, such as the health system, such as the INA problem. And I ask these people why they do it? In whose interest? If they drill into their chests as patriots so this Croatia has bigger problems now, so the question of national minorities and I am in favour of discussing it, but now is not a crucial time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49736	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague, Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49737	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lovrinović. I'm also an economist and I didn't teach at college, but I was working as a graduate after college writing business plans to farmers and believe me in our area they can't support the current system of assignment of state land to rent. A colleague who was a year older than me now planted 10 acres of orchards and took him two years but he was happy because he managed to get state land for lease in two years. If they don't have another source of tourism revenue or something else, that's not possible. Another colleague you lectured him and praised you very much, he graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, next to the farm looking for a pasture, now at 31, 32 years old he already has a seat on it, so let's go back to this very measure of this law. I agree that everything you predict can happen to this law that's bad, but believe me, when you get into practice, when you get into business, when you're looking at how long it takes you to get one agricultural land all this stuff that's been prescribed so far isn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49738	I would like to thank my colleague Roščić for the replica. My colleague Lovrinović's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49739	Well, respected colleagues may not have been well understood, I repeat that I have suggested that young families and people you speak of, even those you speak of, who want to work, which is a strategic interest in keeping people especially in the country because Croatia is half empty, that is the problem. Not only are they not to be sold, they should be rented free of charge. ... He who makes things difficult with his actions, and I tell you all the time, what am I talking about? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 27 times the law has been amended, procedures are slow. Why? Because it's in someone else's interest, you understand? I simply can't come to myself for a year and then two days, so a man loses his temper, his will, and goes away. The enemies of these Croatian villages and these countries are people who do so. Why? Because they create narrow throats, whoever creates a narrow throat, he's turned to corruption. Why? Because something has to be given to him. That's the problem. So, I repeat, the small property policy is crucial to Croatia, 5, 10 hectares, 3, and we need to protect those people. How long has it been, how many large systems have been swallowed in agriculture? Billions of incentives. Imagine if it were stimulated by small farms, small farmers, to protect them in every way possible, the people of Slavonia would not run away. So party Change Croatia we don't want to spread mourning to this country, we know what to do. Here you need saber and sword to cut down and bring this country into order. When I say who, these bureaucratic procedures, corruption and everything that harms the village and why people move out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49740	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49741	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lovrinović, did I get you well, you are against decentralisation and to transfer powers to local self-government. You are meant to continue to be centralized through the agency. For reasons that there are sheriffs at the local level who are connected to corruption, clientism and the like. However, I'll tell you, in every small village and municipality the mayor or mayor knows the best situation and knows these people. And of course it's the people he talks to every day, drinks coffee, goes to some party. And now that he gets, that neighbor of his plot to farm the country, we often know that it's customerism and that there's some kind of hidden business. I think that sentence you said that the system of us didn't work and that it was those sheriffs you call who made a mistake about the law and made a move like this that we didn't have a sanction system. That's the kind of chief that needs to be replaced. That's the kind of chief you need to put in jail. But don't take down the power to have them own that land. The next thing you know, it's in article 36, "Who and what and how?" And I think it's them, the host population that was born there and that lives there that's the reason to encourage her to stay there and keep working. And you said there might be others who might have an interest. In these others, it is also most likely that they can prevent the adoption of laws to speed up the whole process. Because that import lobby that imports exactly food and delivers all of our hotelers at sea and stops the development of our agriculture and manufacturers of all the food products that can be sold, I think exactly what you said, and here I support you that our system is not working. And I think this law will help to make it faster, what Mrs. Dragica mentioned, it's a matter of time before our farmers get as high as they can and the faster they come into possession of the land and start producing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49742	I thank my colleague Demetlika for the replica. And my colleague Lovrinović's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49743	Dear colleague Demetlika, you have already said that the situation in Istria is not the same as in Slavonia and Baranja, Slavonia. But this is the way you described the chief's best way to know the man, those people who process him, and then get around to them. Look, imagine if I came looking for a loan from the bank and the banker said so I didn't communicate with you, I don't know you enough, you know I can't, you can't just get a loan. Well, that's the problem, I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to those other bastards who are just using it to get their own cousin or somebody else, and there's our problem. What it means in Croatia, so 27 times the Agricultural Land Act was changed, so isn't it in these great experiments, there was decentralisation and it was coming back again. We're not a society currently ready for that kind of decentralisation. Believe me, I'd like you all to decide, but here's the living we were, so we'll see, and that's how this law will be passed because it's complicated for things to go, so it doesn't matter what it costs to cost, so then some next team, the 28th amendment of the Agricultural Land Act, during that time agricultural disaster policy, people move out. But why? Well, it's important to pass a law on agricultural land that will please one number of people, and this other thing that agriculture is on its knees and it's going down, so it's not that important, let people manage, let people adapt to the market, you know, to adapt to the market. And these are these floscules that here are a number of MPs who are already who know how many years they've been going through, so spread illusions, deceives the public, and that's why they need to open their eyes to people and really see who's fighting for their interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49744	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49745	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Lovrinović, you have rightly asked today what the purpose of this law is, in fact, what is the goal of the law to achieve. I would now paraphrasise the first Croatian president, so I would say this, great interests and little land. The problem is that every minister so far was not good when he represented the interests of the big ones instead of the interests of the Croatian village of Croatian farmers. This has been shown on many occasions, and this has been the same thing today. In 2000, I think it was the HSS that represented the idea at the time, in 2000 the first programme of agricultural land was brought in and then the same ministry put in a sort of whisper and said a certain part, I don't remember now, 10% of the land must be prepared for concession. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, concession contracts are concluded at ridiculous prices. I hope that the provision of this bill that talks about revaluation will touch those contracts, it is inadmissible to pay so little prices. And in that sense I see some of the provisions of this law that go to improve. That's the 27th change, you're right, now it's a question of how much in those 27 changes we've managed to make, but I hope that this change will succeed at least in this part to solve this issue about these concessions and fellow Demetlika is right, look, so most of that land has been allocated. The municipalities and cities have brought these programs, only now should we say Mr. Demetlika only need changes and additions. I don't agree with this opinion of the county, it's completely unnecessary, agency or state's attorney's office, so that in that way these programmes that they've brought are already distributed, that farmers start to enjoy themselves, that they can ultimately work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49746	I thank my colleague, Sagar. My colleague Lovrinović's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49747	I will only repeat that it is not a key problem for Croatian villages and agriculture property or the area they are working on, so the problem is how to sell it, how to get the money, and people are over-indebted, they have been promised a lot over the past years, people have been building farms, they're in debt with high interest. Then came multinational companies that took over the dairy companies and immediately brought down the prices and all their bills fell into the water, now no one protects them. What does it mean to this man now that you're offering him an extra 10 acres of pasture? Well, he's going to look at you, the dark one, so here's the thing completely clear. The 27th time changing the land law means a non-conceptional state in agriculture, it's a partial approach, let's work this out a little bit. I'm not saying that everything here is bad in this law, there are certain changes but the key meaning of the law is, he's going to miss, he's not going to make our agriculture more efficient, he's not going to bring people back to the country, he's going to punish them even more and he's particularly devastating when we look at how much encouragement he's given to the village, then you see that. Today, if I'm not mistaken, you said in your statement that the moratorium provisions are unacceptable to you by 2020 so that foreigners can buy land. I fully agree, and our party is also, I think you recognized it in my speech, that we ask the Ministry of Agriculture to give a quality basis, that this Parliament can make a decision to and after that introduce safeguard clauses, measures, various dams, that we too protect our most fertile country, not to have someone else come to it tomorrow and what we fought for, in the war, for the country to lose now in peace for small money.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49748	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the replicas. I'm setting up a recess, and we'll be back to work in 19 and 15 minutes. It's 19.05 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.15 HOURS]] On behalf of the SDSS representative club, respected counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49750	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, who stayed in the hall, would like to say something about this important bill, which regulates important matter. The law has good solutions, but I am not going to talk about them now, but I would like to warn in the debate three things to try to fix it up to two readings and to write a final bill. The poor availability of agricultural land is an obstacle, progress and development of agricultural production. The applicable law, therefore, which is now in force is a major authority and has transferred the obligations to the Agricultural Land Agency. This has had positive effects in terms of state land records, information, setting up some uniform procedures and forms. However, the main goal has not been achieved. A small farmer still finds it difficult to reach agricultural land. Competitions are slow to announce. The abandoned agricultural land remains abandoned. I'm not even talking about control. Therefore, the application of the law in practice has shown that there are a number of obstacles that slow down the process of availability to state-owned agricultural land. If they were to analyse until the current decision of the Agricultural Land Agency, which relates to the lease and sale of state agricultural land, then they would see that family farms have received significantly less land available than various companies. According to some analyses, the OPG was leased or sold 1/6 state-owned land from the agency, while 5/6 went to various companies, i.e. various forms of companies. And the aim of the Agricultural Land Act should be to restore the family holding and strengthen its natural role in food production and the preservation of rural space. In the EU, the situation is not much better, but it could be said that if we read the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee of 21 January 2015, which has been addressed as a jag for agricultural land, a warning for Europe and a threat to family farms, that the situation is actually worse than ours. In 2013 in the EU, only 3.1% of economic operators controlled more than 50% of agricultural land in the 27 Member States. And on the contrary, we had over 76% of the economic operators, right? small OPGs that only had 11.2% of agricultural land. This trend is contrary to the desired European model of sustainable and multi-functional agriculture, in which small family farms play an important role. Therefore, the EU found that the sale of agricultural land to investors and companies not engaged in agriculture throughout the Union is an acute problem. In particular, new Member States, which were affected after the end of the moratorium, which limited the sale of land to foreigners, were affected by relatively low agricultural land prices. Our task would be to protect domestic small farmers, small OPGs, and allow them to reach agricultural land. Therefore you should consider and consider, whether to extend... or find some other measures to protect our little OPGs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what does that bring? What are the pluses, what are the minuses? The second thing I found important to say was to rent land that was privately owned. Agricultural land, says private-owned law, i.e. a bill that is not maintained for agricultural production, and owners are inaccessible or unknown residence, the agency can lease a natural or legal person for a period of 5 years with market value compensation. Of course, there is a legitimate interest in putting raw agricultural land into operation. However, there he would warn of more problems. First of all, it's a threat to private property. We know that in 2011, the Constitutional Court abolished some articles of the Agricultural Land Act that was then in force and which had a similar solution at that time. It is therefore good to consider and develop this provision. For who, and in what way, will establish that the land is abandoned and that the owner is unknown and unreachable. And what about when the land is abandoned and the owner is famous and unreachable? The paid rent money would go to a special account, and the money would wait there for the owner for five years. If such a solution were to remain in the law, I believe it should be extended, that it is too short. Furthermore, the law says that the costs of decommissioning and bringing in the purpose of agricultural land, which was leased, if it is private property, would charge the rent. I don't think that's a good solution. Yes, the costs would not have to be borne by the owner and his land, when it was leased without his consent and without his knowledge. The third thing I would like to warn about is a provision that says that agricultural land owned by a state, for which no land library is arranged, is leased, the tenant is obliged and authorised to carry out the harmonisation of the land library on his own cost within 2 years of the day of introduction into the property. I really think it's gonna be hard to do that in two years. But this measure is good. It should be supported, but you should think about it, maybe extend his deadline. The situation in the judiciary, i.e. judicial proceedings, should be taken into account. It should be said that the state has invested a lot to address the land's state-owned state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art situation. By 31.12.2016, the state entered over a million and 100 thousand particles in land books were registered as ownership of the Republic of Croatia, but we are far from a solution, precisely because of the discrepancies between land books and catasters, between land books and reality. The state registered itself as the owner, but in reality natural persons were enrolled in the cataster, ornaments were entered, their houses, vineyards, olive groves were entered. A number of legal transactions that were concluded by contracts, the inheritance was all carried out in the cataster, but was not carried out in land books. I know a specific situation in Benkovec, or near Benkovec, where citizens of the 1960s changed their private land with the state or current cooperatives that later moved into state ownership. The state entered the land into its ownership by virtue of such contracts in the late 1980s through court proceedings. Citizens went into the procedure a few years ago, they were enrolled in a cadastre but not in land books, and the state refused them, the court rejected them, and the DORH refused to settle. Today, we have a situation where the state lays down the right to property and land it has given and on the land it has received. The state has to help citizens sign up as owners, not that the DORH refuses a settlement as it did in one case. What is missing in this law are solutions to such things. But it's not just the subject of this law, it's a number of other laws. It's one big problem that I've been pointing to as a representative, which I've pointed to before, until I've been a representative, that we have to help citizens solve their land-marked situation, write down their houses, vineyards and olive groves as their property. We need to find a model to motivate them and help them through a complicated court procedure to sign up as owners, but to help them through the expensive land parcel process because that's what's actually causing the biggest cost. Going out on the ground is very expensive. Citizens will opt for this process perhaps for one plot, perhaps for a vineyard or olive grove that is most valuable to them, perhaps to enter a house, but those plots that are smaller or not so valuable will not be decided on. If the state did, it would do a big thing. In the end, I would like to say that small and medium-sized farms and scattered ownership structures are, in my opinion, the best prerequisite for responsible land management and sustainable processing, but also for encouraging citizens to feel the identification and senses of belonging, since such forms of land ownership contribute to the rest of the population in rural areas and create the possibility of their employment. So I appeal to improve this law for a second reading and to work in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49751	I thank Mr Milosevic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49752	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry that you're so little present here, unfortunately only eight people that's a chronic problem in this assembly when you're talking about important things just no MP. But I'll go back to the summa summarum of being the whole story. Will the law, or amendments to the Law on State Land, solve the problems of our village? Well, according to governments, for the past 27 years, different measures have been proposed for the recovery of the village, both the HDZ and the SDP. It is therefore logical to wonder what the results of all these measures are? What happened to agricultural production? She collapsed. We're all witnesses. What happened to the dairy industry? Collapsed. In fact, all agricultural cultures have recorded their decline. And we have to wonder if such a let's say the result of the individual-level error, so the peasants, or our agricultural policy, has been missed. Of course, every time a peasant fell, if he couldn't charge his grain when he couldn't repay his credit, etc., he always suggested that the guilt was on the individual. They would never say, and not the system is your fault. No, no, it's always a single peasant's fault, and so the guilt was passed on to all those peasants like that unfortunate Ivan Hjassi near Bjelovar who, because of the inability to return the loan to the farm, was blown up by a bomb and was not essentially a problem. So the agricultural production continued to fail, and the state or system continued to blame the peasants. I can play the doll here and repeat the phrases you repeat, so I can say that this change of law will solve problems with the village, that it will stimulate production, etc., but I am aware that unfortunately it will not, and I will try to point out to you the basic cause of all the problems in agriculture, and this is the following, as long as the exchange rate swears or let's say, while the state had a weak currency, let's say in the time of Yugoslavia was a Yugoslav dinar, then the import products were relatively expensive, or they were more expensive than domestic. That means if you were a farmer from Vrbovac and you had grown five pig import pigs you'd be if you were going to sell more expensive than your own. And consequently, if PIK Vrbovac needed pork, that pig PIK Vrbovac would not import pigs from abroad, he would simply buy pigs from domestic producers. And as much as domestic producers could produce a pig, so much PIK Vrbovac was willing to introduce them, or buy them out. However, the role of the CNB central bank is changed in 1994. At that point, the kuna binds to the German mark, later on for the euro, at the quasi fixed rate, currently ranging from 7.3 to 7.6 kuna for one euro. And that course is seasonally oscillating, but basically the CNB has the role of exchange rate. And what's going on? Since this course is not realistic, we have made import food cheaper than domestic. What does that mean? That means it's cheaper to introduce a pig than to buy it from a domestic producer. And that's why domestic producers fail, they have no one to place their products and import flowers. The only thing that saved our farm under the unreal course was, guess what, I don't think anyone's gonna throw it to me, so if I don't have to say it myself, so the only thing that saved the peasants from the unrealistic course was customs. Because let's say the unrealistic course makes your products 20% more expensive but then by importing customs, the import product is 20% of the total, and then you come back to some kind of 'let's say by quotes zero. But what happened in 2011 by entering the EU, a customs barrier which until then, let's say, has partially corrected the problem of the unrealistic course has been removed. Customs is gone and import products are cheaper. And what happened after that? There's been a complete breakdown of domestic agriculture. What was said on TV to our peasants is next. They've been told so far you've had a market of 4 million people but when you join the EU you'll have a market of half a billion people, you'll be able to export everywhere, etc. But the truth is, not that they didn't get the new 495 million customers but they've lost these 4 million we had and they are now, so domestic customers are now being served import food. What do you say next? I tried essentially to explain the whole problem, I pointed to it, and I repeat which million times that without monetary reform, without a course correction will continue the breakdown of domestic agricultural but also any other economic activity other than trade in imported goods. But ultimately, when domestic consumers run out of money, when they lose their jobs, will they be able to spend? They won't, and then there'll be a drop in consumption, and then the merchants will go down. And they fail one after another last in that unfortunate series of hated Ivica Todoric and Agrokor. What am I telling you? Well, the thing is, all the time, it's been suggested that our policy is such that it destroys small ones and that it pleases big ones like Todorovic. She may have favored them, but in the end we saw that even Todorovic failed with all these benefits. So even the big one that was being helped, the one that was being written about, the laws that were going to meet him, and he ended up falling apart. And the question arises if we continue with this policy, which is the future of our country and our people. If the past is the key to the present, we can easily say that by continuing the current policy, its results will continue to manifest. And her results are what? What goes parallel to the letter of agriculture like that? Mass eviction of people from the area where people live from agriculture. And Slavonia is empty, people are gone. We will find ourselves in a situation in the end that there will be no one to farm that land, that will happen to us ladies and gentlemen in the end. And the question is, will this law solve these problems? Yeah? Oh, no? What do you think, ladies and gentlemen? Unfortunately, it's a pain in the ass here, I'd like it to be like in the English Parliament that you're yelling will or won't, but you're believing, let's say people will. But we all know that they won't and that the negative processes regarding agricultural production, as far as emigration is concerned, will continue after this law is passed. And why is that? Because this law does not deal with the cause of the crash, it deals with the question of rounding the parcels, etc. But what's the problem? You have a situation today that milkmen who have their cows, even if they have their own country that may not even be in credit say even under such conditions, production is no longer worth it to me. So someone gives you a grant loan and tells you here's the money to build a farm, here's your land, he'll just say thank you for that offer, but at the price of the 1.20-pound milk, I just can't, it's not worth it. And all the time, the milkmen were yelling and calling on the state to do something. What did the state do? Nothing. And all of a sudden, those same milkmen who spilled milk, who indicated that the situation was unsustainable, we see at the end what role they played, in the role of the failed milkmen who say cows are now going to the slaughterhouse. So, these unfortunate cows were ruled by this state, so cows go to the slaughterhouse because of the collapse of the government's policy. And now most of the people to say there are colleagues from the SDP, unfortunately none of them are sitting here right now, but if by any chance they were here, they'd say it's HDZ. On the other hand, if the situation were reversed, if the SDPs were here and you were gone, they would say, it's HDZ's fault. However, neither HDZ nor SDP are unfortunately because they only implemented a policy imposed on the outside. But this policy was imposed by the EU, the EU said it must stabilise the course, the CNB must be a currency exchange office. The EU said customs must be abolished. And the third thing, the EU says you can't have a double VAT rate. You Croats cannot have a smaller VAT on domestic products, the EU tells us. Which will say that the EU's policy is devastating for the Croatian village and peasants. But when they were commercials to join the EU, you all remember, they were showing people there pouring brandy and slaughtering pigs, and that's what they say you'll still be able to slaughter pigs, make necklaces and pie brandy and you'll be fine. Are they all right? Which means that Croatian peasants, like the rest of the Croatian people, were exposed to fierce propaganda aimed at making a decision against their own interests on the day of the EU accession referendum. And what does Prime Minister Plenkovic offer us as a solution? Mr. Grmoya, did you hear what last solution he offered? He said that in 2020, the kuna needs to be abolished and the euro should be introduced. So instead of having the CNB stop being a currency exchanger, to set up a real exchange rate, Plenkovic wants to cement this state as well as the CNB is actually passing ad acta, bury it, and in fact it would take over some role essentially of a supervisory agency because it would no longer broadcast money or anything at all, it would be the role of the European Central Bank and we, as we are currently doing, could only come to new money by taking foreign loans. And of course, when I asked one girl, I asked her if all the new money we're taking is a loan, do you agree with that, ask, she says that, all the new money we're taking is a loan, and I ask her, and how did all the money we already have come out here? She says so it means he's created as a loan. Which means that all the money that we... A loan, a loan we won't be able to repay because we never got the money to pay the interest, because the money from these loans goes to buy the import goods because the exchange policy is such that it makes it cheaper than home and I can only yell here, a poster, and laugh out of mourning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, it means black humor. So the Croatian village and peasants are waiting for the crash, and if it were not regrettable, it would be funny for the Croatian village or Croatian peasant to continue to vote in the elections, not for those who talk about its problems. Not those who want to solve their problems, who want to stop this failed monetary and customs and tax policy. Not to those who wish to free themselves from debt, but to those who gave them a bomb in the hands of the war, and in peace they gave them a line around their necks. And now these peasants are killing themselves because of that policy you're conducting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49753	I thank Mr. Pernar for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49754	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the 27th time, the Republic of Croatia has an amendment to the Agricultural Land Act. The fact that neither this law solves nor the basic problems that have led to the possibility of selling out agricultural land but obviously the interest of politicians was not that the Croatian farmer developed both in Dalmatia and in Dalmatia, Lica. The fact that we have 2/3 in the whole territory, that we have empty, no people, no residents, and the fact that this law remains the possibility that the 2020 moratorium, that foreigners can buy agricultural land remains open and that's the key problem of the whole story. We first destroyed the farmer, destroyed the peasants, destroyed the farm because we gave incentives and from the funds of European funds, we also gave incentives, so who knows who, and on which OPGs, because the fact that only in dairy production, it has been repeated countless times, we have to repeat ourselves a million times, in 4 years from 2011 to 2015, 5 billion kuna was invested, that before that incentive, we had 64 thousand dairy producers and now we have 4 thousand and 600 dairy producers. When we entered the EU, then we signed that possibility for foreigners to buy us, so the agricultural land that was by water, air and others, but this water, agricultural land and air, the energy that was taken from us, essentially our foreigners, took most of it, left us with agricultural land, left empty fields, fields that weren't targeted, because the huge money was invested in the OPGs that opened up big concerts like Agrokor and similar to him, and that money of encouragement instead of leaving was meant to small OPGs, it went to the teams with which the pockets, which paid for campaigns, which regularly carried out their obligations, and later those chosen, regularly executed their obligations to their employers. It's a fact and it's very easy to see who works in these huge concerts. And now that village is empty. All the incentives, the subsidies went to grants and now we need to save what is to be saved, which is the country. I set an example for Hungary today. In Hungary, too, when foreigners joined the EU, they began to buy the country. Since Orban saw that they were losing part of sovereignty, he tightened the measures so that foreigners could buy agricultural land, the EU, began to give criticism, sanctions, threaten, but a man as president of a country opened up one move, now he made a referendum, where Hungarians said, 80% were, 87% of Hungarians were against being able to buy agricultural land. And by this law, gentlemen, I'd like you to listen a little bit to the Ministry, because I'm not saying this to the air, or you're really so powerful that you don't listen to our parliamentary representatives. I know that Parliament does not matter to you, I know that a lot of investments are more important to you that are bad for Croatian society, such as destroying Croatian potentials and resources such as. The river Cetina or Lake Peruca, so the Ministry would ask you to listen while the MPs speak, and not with a smile and whisper there, you don't listen at all to an absolute opinion, because yet the people chose these people, whether you like it or not, you should listen to these people. By entering the EU, when you were throwing stars, when you called people, to buy, to invest in agriculture, they built people farms, from day to day, to repay loans. Why? Because you were forced, people were forced to go missing, they were comfortable with import lobbies, they were suitable for those to whom agricultural land was assigned, who were subletting. They say there'll be no rent now. I don't see any guarantee that there won't be any sublets. The fact that this issue should have been resolved long ago, but obviously the stakeholders are under the directive of those who have mastered this land, which will be ours, so we will have no part of sovereignty. And unfortunately, and I'm inviting you from the ministry, in two readings, to change that article, di, di, di, since 2020, that di moratorium means stop, where I can buy a stranger, so it won't be anymore. That it can't simply be the owners of our sources, our fields, our energies, we can't put everything into the hands of strangers, because we don't have any more states. There is no point in this Parliament, where you should be a minister and where you should listen a little more carefully, because the fact that Mr Ivan Schuker himself said yesterday, we signed it when we joined the EU, we must respect it. Then why does the people go to elections? Why do we even call on the people to vote for us, to vote for us, when someone on behalf of us, then signed unanimously in the Parliament, then supported the Parliament in the pre-accession negotiations. Not only did we do it, we didn't just have to close down all the generals. Not only were we not allowed to declare an economic belt, but now we have signed that we have to sell, so that we can sell to foreigners land, agricultural land. Not only do we have to subsidize the wind, not only do we have to give them the biggest drinking water pool to thermal power plant Peru, not what we have to give them... The Vrdovo hydrocenter, which is a private project, and a few kilometers down, we have HEP project on the Courts, where the county has already invested huge money and the state has put it in drawers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, water, agriculture, you destroyed all 2/3 of Croatia was destroyed, that's a fact, by entering the EU, and even gold sold. Here, now that I'm answering, this gentleman here, even gold, 15 tons of gold. Yeah, the people know they sold it. Now they're going to sell land, energy, subsidies you've given to gas, for a thermopower plant, which will be 500 megawatts, which will be huge citizens' money, it's clean... Croatia, excluded from this Parliament, because by joining the EU, pre-accession, that is not what the people of Croatia were talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was said that money would be huge, that they would be sown here by incentives, subsidies, that we would have to import labour from China, what do we have? Empty villages. They're empty stables, farms, that's a fact. We don't have irrigation systems in key fields. I'm here looking at the Krška Fields, the Vrgorjek, the imotski, the Sinjsko Field. So again, through the Sinj field passes the river Cetina there is no irrigation. You know that very well, colleague Šipić. A blue field that could produce for tourism a set of vegetable culture, where they could export all agricultural products. There's no irrigation. In the middle of the summer, they say, drought in the Sinj field. Now if someone came from America, Israel, and saw that the drought was in the Sinj field, and the river Cetina flowed, there was no irrigation system in 2017, so they would say my people were coming here. They're watering half the desert. And we Sinjsko polje, fertile, or vervain end or property end, so can you believe it's at this point and now we're gonna sell it into berserks. We must protect it with this law. Secretary for not having a minister, that's a fact. And our peasant doesn't have to be competitive and our peasant goes out, leaves the empty farms under mortgages, and now, of course, it's going to be taken away from them by banks, and it's all going to be sold to them. In conclusion, the 2020 moratorium, you left this law in two readings, I hope that you will now manifest yourselves here. Because Parliamentarians are asking you to take off that anti-national article. Against the interest of the Croatians, where we will be able to buy cheaply our clean preserved organic agricultural land and to allow foreigners to take away that resource, and so that we no longer have any sovereignty, water, energy, the Adriatic Sea, the economic belt has not been declared, absolute banks, telecommunications we have given them all and more agricultural land by this law and this article, don't you change if then it really doesn't make sense that Croatia chooses us here in the Parliament but simply let this be... and obviously it was of interest to you because the worst thing that has happened to Croatia is courtship, obedience and in no way has worked in the interests of the people and what you promised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49755	I thank my colleague Bull for this debate. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49756	Your Honor, Vice President. Article 238 means insulting the MPs by fellow Shuker, colleague Bulj mentioned him, and he cried out to the representatives of the Most, you're such a jerk. ... No, no, Mr. Shuker, you know what you said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Even though we kept quiet here if he didn't agree with his colleague Bull, he could replicate. You let him insult us just as he insulted us here for being the unremembered vice president of the government of Martin Dalic. Obviously, we hit the target well and you're very upset about our opposition action. I would ask you to protect us from these attacks and these words from fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49757	With respect to your violation of the Rules of Procedure, I have indeed not heard such a word that he has spoken such an ugly thing, that I have heard it certainly would warn him no matter who he is or who he is by name and last name, so I do not think that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is standing this time and if you are not satisfied you can submit an opinion to the committee responsible. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49758	Mr. Chairman. Again, Article 238 of his colleague Schucker was injured again... meaning the violation of the Rules of Procedure's injury to his colleague Shucker was being yelled again, and he has an institute here, he has a Rules of Procedure, he was also president of the club, and you are in the army obviously i.e. You were in the special police department, obviously he meant for us to wear helmets. But we're not afraid for all the attacks that have been unmarked so far, Deputy Prime Minister Dalic, we see Shuker being sharpened, I don't know what the triba is. Tribalo is carrying swords, maybe shields, or you will stick to the Rules of Procedure and you are breaking it and simply you are in this case and chair both me and Mr. Shucker and stick to the Rules of Procedure as prescribed. If the triba has a different reckoning, we can do it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49759	I thank Mr. Bull for these stated reasons for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. She says the Bible, “Lord, if sin were to be remembered who would survive. ” If the Rules of Procedure were to strictly stick to the question, Mr. Bull, how much would you say? So if you are not satisfied with my answer and interpretation, you can file an opinion on any violations of the Rules of Procedure. If we were to stick to it strictly then there would be a lot of reminders here, many would be distant, but I don't think we should go that way. Thank you. You can also file an opinion request. We're moving on to the line of our esteemed colleague, Nicole Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49760	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you have practically said in your presentation that the Bridge will support this law with these remarks that we have made. I'm as sorry as you said yourself that there isn't a minister here, but it's obvious that the minister is holding a little bit of what we're going to say here and what we're going to talk about. And I'd love to, and unfortunately there's no one in the Ministry of Agriculture except that there's a well-paid PR and a minister who doesn't bring any concrete results. All the good that came from the Ministry of Agriculture has been prepared before, as the Law on Unfair Commercial Practice, which passed the first reading here, thanks to the set of Bridges that was in that ministry. Unfortunately, we had from the Ministry of Agriculture only moves that required us to blush, conflicts between the prime minister who later ordered that that rule be withdrawn. We don't have this kind of policy that you're talking about that would be sovereign, that would go into the protection of Croatian peasants and Croatian farmers, but we will continue to endure it regardless of these insults and attacks that we've been exposed to, and we will force HDZ who knows how to hold hands on a heart that knows the cellar in patriotism, but which, by all his actions, has shown that to this country, to these people who live here is holding nothing. So we will be the right sovereign option to protect the interests of the Croatian man. All that HDZ was saying and didn't do was do exactly the opposite of what he was saying. So in that sense, I, too, express my support for this bill on this condition that you yourself have set for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49761	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. Answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49762	So that in the serious parliaments on serious laws should be a minsitary and should now give its reasons for all the proposals we make, especially on the key issue, which is the possibility of ending the 2020 moratorium on the sale of land to foreigners, which is essentially a key resource with certain resources that we have already lost. And I really expected the minister to give an answer to this question and I expect, there is time until the second reading, we will anyway if he doesn't accept the Most Club will give the amendment in this direction. And we try to keep what we have, and that's the sovereign part, which is among other things agricultural land. But when Ivo Sanader says that it's normal to arrest, locate, transfer, or Shacks then it's normal and it's patriotic, and if one of us did say and then it brought me in for it, and if someone said so much about sovereignism, and if someone said that to us now, to be high treason, communists. So a kind of courtship and half-dozenship that is not remembered and is not welcome in the Croatian state, mocking the parliamentary deputies because if the minister is not present here at the key Agricultural Land Act then he says that he is much more important to the PR service and promotion than I am this law that should really be accepted but only in the interests of the people that, means that the foreigners can't buy this country and that there is no deadline since they can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49763	I thank my colleague Bull for his reply to the replica. We move on to the next debate, final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49764	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am at the end of this debate but trust me that even through the thematic session of the Assembly Committee and through the session we've really been through this law. What's clear from all this, these seven hours of debate in the Assembly is too short. And I will also object this time to the President of the Parliament and to the Presidency at all which this point came late this afternoon to discuss. Because it certainly is not the goal of us having citizens who need someone who will turn on in the late evening hours but who wants to see on the news what we have been saying and what were the key conclusions about the law that is definitely the most important law perhaps this government will make in the agriculture sector at all in this term. Of course this is, I am very pleased that my colleagues and I have accepted exactly the point of view that we have made available to agricultural land in such a way that we will not take as a state any activity or the smallest one to limit or make it difficult or reduce the possibility for foreigners to even expect to come to us in possession. I know that by 2020, we have a certain time, a certain moratorium, but let's look at other countries, all of which have entered the EU, especially the Eastern bloc, entered the EU, had a deadline within which they had been banned, whether they were sold. After that, they got three years of extension. And then what? And then after that, they go all the way to the referendum. If one Hungary, one Orban, in the end will seem to be showing us, actually a picture of how we should behave, conduct, organise a referendum 87% of the citizens confirm it, fit into the Constitution, let's, even if we take one small step, now we have the opportunity to show that we want permanent protection. Well, it's not just from strangers, we also want our mechanics to protect the country that will be our key resource. And exactly this law that is now coming he will reopen the conflicts. I don't know if you've been following a little bit, I'm now more concerned with what was in the field, cattlemen and warlords, it seems we're going back to the wild west when anyone is going to be kidnapped. We haven't been able to reconcile one here again within this law. I understand here and really 4000 hectares in Croatia is not much. However, what I have warned about will be the leader of local self-government if there is a criterion, I do not know that it is 50km, will be discussed, there is still a long time that will dare to open the first public call where all those who lack the country will just say I miss and join. This may actually seem like a criticism now, but it is actually one real, real thought that in the amendments to the laws that will be made in the coming time, the attempt will be accepted and that we do not come from one dissatisfied state, calling on Minister Jakovina, not to come to the situation of war over decisions made by Minister Tolusic. We definitely don't need that because then we won't be able to, we'll all be guilty. So it's all those who participated in the adoption of this law. And that's why we put people right in the future to see that this resource is going to stay, that it's not going to be taken over by a foreign domicile but that it's going to be able to count, maybe through some of the following changes, something will improve, and then we open up space. What I would certainly warn, here I am today...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49765	Excuse me, Mr. Panenic. I'm sorry to interrupt. Dear colleagues and colleagues on the side, if you have important topics to discuss, please leave the assembly and do those conversations, then come back. Don't interrupt the speaker while he's talking. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Panenich.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49766	Thank you very much. Today, here at the county assembly, the question of June 30th opened as a lease payment deadline, unsustainable. It is simply unsustainable because we need to understand the present in which their income from agricultural producers and all those who are users of state land is too short for them. In 30.09, to talk, we would only confirm the old state they were so used to, but with the understanding of local self-government, the state's attorney, the land agency moved, most of them all tried to collect it, not to get problematic. And that's why I think there's room, and I need to listen to all this that's in the debate, through the thematic sessions, through the committee session, through this debate, to be classified. But I believe that another cycle will need to pass, to talk to people just to reconcile the differences that are now emerging and where perhaps from one good intention we will get into trouble. Just what my colleagues have said, so we support the law itself in a way that we want it to be implemented in a similar way with some of the remarks that we said as a condition to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49767	I thank Mr Panenic for this final word. We have two replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49768	Thank you very much. A colleague of Panenić, you have well noticed that about such an important issue as agricultural land when it is passed the law for the 27th time, it seems to me in the Republic of Croatia and when a permanent solution should be found to protect this resource that should be exclusively in the interests of villages and peasants and the entire Republic of Croatia that there is no minister who should give some answers as a minister, as the main authority in the final word, because I saw that earlier on the screen it was written that the secretary would be in the final word where I don't see, but I expect that he would give answers to these questions, that he would accept what we said all day and most importantly not allow us to let the foreigners, that the rest of the measures as well as our neighbouring countries and what Slovenia even wanted to do with our own resources and other Baltic countries, that we should not be allowed the last line of defense sovereignty to destroy and that is agricultural land, because all the rest has been released through the fingers of the obvious interest of the people in the country and the need to take care from our citizens in the right and the right way of society, because of the people who are concerned, because of the people who are concerned with the need to pay, the money, the money, the money, because of the money, because of the money, the people, the people, because of the people, and the people who are the people who are the people who are the money, who are the money, who are the money, who are the people who are the people who are the money, who are the people who are the money, who are aware of the people who are aware of the money, who are the money, who are aware of the people who are the money to pay, who are the people who are the money, who are the money, who are the people who are the people who are the money, who are the people who are the people who are aware of the people who are aware of the people, who are the people who are the people who are aware of the people, who are the people, who are the people, who are the people, who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people that they, who are the people who are Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49769	I thank my colleague Bull. Answer, fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49770	Comrade Bulj, in fact, the real question is whether or not the people who are in the field, who politicians who rock there locally need a minister. I will tell only the event today where Minister Kuščević has sent amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government where doctors said they can't get a flat-rate fee but only after the session. On my proposal sent to procedure on July 13th, you know what HDZ's majority did? They just said they don't want to accept it. I say, you're making a circus, now you're going to refuse a proposal to be a session payment, but then in three months, because of what you're going to do, you're going to do. I say let's be heroes, let's go before the law is passed by example to show how it should be done, no, it's just that we don't even want to implement the idea that's going to be. This is a good idea that goes from the ministry, which wants to improve the situation. We've heard a lot about the problems with Jakovina, with his law, with the dysfunction of the then Agricultural Land Agency. Actually, what is it? They just want to give it to us, we'll handle it. And I'm also warning the ministry, don't let it happen on the ground that someone is opening envelopes to allow certain manipulations. At this time of e-business, I trust the Ministry, I believe in the Agricultural Land Agency that it can be organised, that it is electronically delivered, that it can be transparent, and that it can't be locally welcomed, give us a chance to transfer it, so we're going to rub it up, stain it, then in a few years someone's going to call a good idea and they're going to call this government and all the governments that were before we destroyed the agrarian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49771	I thank my colleague Panenic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49772	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Panenic, here, although it is too late, I have replicated it to you because I would like you, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, to comment on another fact. I think that's what the board was about. So, we welcome the return of the local self-government unit's programmes, then the county's further opinion under the bill, the agency agrees. But then in the law it is proposed that companies owned by the same units of local self-government, any county, any state property, can be free of competition, be careful without winning contests, land. Is that correct, is that fair? Isn't that a kind of conflict of interest? That the unit of local self-government conducts a tender, actually brings in a programme of availability, conducts tenders and also owns a company, in its possession can win a competition without it. Same with the county that can in that case reconcile the opinion. Or the agency's consent. And in general, I think that companies owned, except by special laws, special services, companies have nothing to do with local self-government units. It's my personal opinion, and especially in this section when we talk about agricultural land, another matter of institutes and educational institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49773	I thank my colleague, Sagar. My colleague Panenic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49774	Comrade Sagar, so far we have had institutions, institutions, scientific, educational that had this possibility but here I'm just going to say that there are examples of actual manipulations, where even such ones, for example. was in the penitentiary having land, processing, there arises an entire number of manipulations to be prevented. This opening of space to companies actually creates one unfair competition. Because local self-government, whatever, so we'll figure it out so we'll go there with some chief, let him open up a company that deals with charity, caritative production and pick up a country to create some kind of fund to manipulate. I think it's really the indeterminateness of that article, that it has to be clear who is opening, to what purpose, and how they're going to get. In this way practically anyone can, agree with the mayor of someone, say let's go and we'll ask and get a certain amount of land. I think we should warn that and that we really need to read what's of interest, where that country will contribute to education or to a certain other such real intention, but this is a manipulation that if you see it, I see it, and probably those who want to say the country and why another one and that one who needs to decide about us will take it for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49775	I thank my colleague Panenic for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote this point when you get the terms. I would like to thank the Secretary of State Mr Majdak and his associates, Snježana Kraml, Silvia Runja and Lana Bogdan, for the explanations and further interpretations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49776	Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 178. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 101 votes for, 18 abstentions and 4 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49777	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on aquaculture, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 177 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the Proposer's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Marija Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49778	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law shall be Art.52 and Article 2(4) of subparagraph 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the assessment of the situation, it should be noted that so far there was no single law on aquaculture in the Republic of Croatia, but the provisions of the Law on Marine Fisheries regulated the activities of aquaculture in the sea, and the Act on freshwater fisheries, the activity of aquaculture on land. The changes to the common fisheries policy in 2013, when aquaculture activity is more strategically important and in Croatia it is one of the fastest growing branches, is growing at an average rate of 10%, and the need for integration of the legal provisions governing aquaculture in the sea and on land has been created, therefore the first reason for the adoption of this law is the unification of national provisions relating to the activity of aquaculture in the land and at sea. The implementation of the reformed common policy and, inter alia, the case that in 2016 the launch of the EU pilot number 9094, the European Commission estimated that the Republic of Croatia did not properly implement regulation 708 of 2007 on the use of foreign and locally absent species on aquaculture. With regard to the change adopted by the Common Fisheries Policy in 2013, it should be pointed out that the conditions for the adoption of multi-annual national strategic plans have been created, and thus the Croatian Multi-annual National Strategy Plan for the Development of Aquaculture in the period from 2014 to 2020, which defines how and gives guidance, should be strengthened and increased the competitiveness of Croatian aquaculture, properly positioned in both coastal and land-based areas, co-ordinate spatial planning and allow for sustainable development. Given the recognised importance of aquaculture at European level, the strategic objectives of this law are to improve the competitiveness of Croatia's aquaculture and its sustainability in the social economic sense, and to increase overall production, deforestation, environmental, economic and social sustainability. The proposal for a law shall, above all, regulate the national development objectives for aquaculture, the appropriate application of the common fisheries policy, the methods and conditions for the implementation of aquaculture, the competent authorities for the implementation of structural state aid, the control of the system, as well as other relevant issues in aquaculture. As regards the way in which the activities are carried out, the law specifically lays down the conditions for the provision of aquaculture, the way in which authorisations for the operation of aquaculture activities are granted, the way in which the authorisations for aquaculture are granted, the way in which the authorisation is granted, the conditions for determining the area and the spatial planning suitable for the pursuit of aquaculture activities, the prior consent, the public collection of concession offers, as well as the way in which land is leased for freshwater aquaculture. Conditions and methods of obtaining permits for the use of foreign and locally absent species, conditions for the removal of such authorisations, a list of closed facilities in aquaculture, and a register of authorisations for the introduction, transfer and use of locally absent and foreign species, conditions for the use of native and strictly protected species, procedures for the escape of fish from breeding installations, conditions for professional training, the way in which statistics are collected in aquaculture, the way in which other economic social data are collected for the management of common markets, and support in aquaculture. Instead of the current benefits for fish and other marine organisms, as well as for aquaculture, permitting aquaculture is introduced with the possibility of uniting more permits into one, which is an administrative discharge of the sector. The proposed law further introduces a new category of approval, which applies to family farms and thus complies with specific regulations governing the additional activity of family farms. The bill also lays down conditions for the full implementation of the 708 regulations, on the use of foreign and locally absent species, and in part of inspection control, progress has also been made, in such a way that sanctions are adapted to the severity of the infringements. Finally, I would like to point out that the law represents an administrative discharge, that it provides for simplification of procedures, a good basis for the adoption of new multi-annual national and strategic development plans and better implementation of an operational programme for maritime and fisheries in which aquaculture activity is arranged with 22% of allotment, and so far around 150 million kuna has been spent from the existing programmes in this activity. The law does not require additional funding from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49779	I would like to thank the secretary, Mrs. Maria Vukkovic, for this explanation. Does he want to... The committee's rapporteurs take the floor? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49780	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We don't have much to add about this law, given that the secretary of state has made a fine reference to the ex-Catedra, however, 2.3 sentences. Therefore, aquaculture means the cultivation or cultivation of aquatic organisms by using techniques designed to increase the production of those organisms, through the natural capacities of the environment, where organisms remain owned by a natural or legal person during the stage of cultivation and production up to and including the stage of extraction. Since there was no single regulation governing the economic activity of aquaculture, but separate chapters under the Law on Marine Fisheries and the Law on freshwater fisheries, this law regulates the separation of aquaculture and the Law on freshwater fisheries and the Law on the Sea fisheries in accordance with the common fisheries policy or the creation of a single legal framework for aquaculture at sea and land. The adoption of the Single Aquaculture Act also highlighted its economic aspect because the Republic of Croatia is the 6th breeder of marine aquaculture in the world. The law lays down frameworks for the adoption of a multiannual strategic plan for the development of aquaculture and operational programme for fisheries, including aquaculture, as well as annual data collection plans, which are significant mechanisms that the Republic of Croatia must adopt and implement within the framework of the common fisheries policy. This proposal also fully establishes frameworks for implementing the Council of Europe Regulation that regulates the use of foreign and locally absent species in aquaculture. In addition, detailed arrangements are being made to carry out aquaculture activities in a manner that is prescribed and now all of the conditions that the secretary of state listed just before I don't repeat, we don't have that much new to say. It is important to say that inspection of the implementation of this law is carried out by fishing inspectors while in the transport and trade of aquaculture products, the supervision is carried out by the Ministry of Finance. Inspectors shall have the right and the duty to control production facilities, means of transport, vessels, facilities, to review the identification of persons, to control the documentation of the legality, the business books and the insight into official records. The inspector is obliged to cooperate with other bodies in the event of a violation of the law and to carry out surveillance without notice. The law provides for infringements. The proposed law introduces a new category of authorisation for the performance of aquaculture in the OPGs and, instead of the current benefits for the production of fish and other marine organisms and aquaculture benefits, introduces authorisations for aquaculture and introduces the possibility of pooling more licences into one. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49781	I thank my colleague Josip Krizanic for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49782	Here's the esteemed Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed colleague. This is because I come from Sibenik, and Sibenik is a city located at the mouth of Krka, an area that is extremely famous for aquaculture, it is about growing we call it... literaryly said mussel. Here I have to say here's one problem highlighted, which is that it has to be taken care of regardless of what is one significant income of the local population to make sure that still every cove doesn't have to be a place for aquaculture. Although I have to say, it's a very important source of local income. Furthermore, we have a very big problem, and this is the problem of processing, or mostly those shellfish that are grown in the Sibenik region, they are, as raw materials are distributed further or for the purposes of tourism local or for export, but there is no processing, freezing of these shellfish, and there may be little state to intervene to a little stimulate, subsidize, something like that, because it would certainly create additional income. And finally, even though aquaculture is necessary nowadays, tuna and various species of shellfish, we also need to take care of the environment. Unfortunately, as strict as these conditions are on paper, there must be a little inspection, more attention to whether these ecological standards, which are extremely well prescribed, are being respected. That's how much thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49783	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. The answer of my colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49784	I'll try to talk to my colleague, Zekanovic, even if I'm not an expert in the area. However, in this law, it is quite resolved that each bay does not have to be allowed to grow seashells because it says that it detailedly regulates the activities of aquaculture in a way, and then writes the conditions for carrying out aquaculture, so this is quite decidedly solved, and as regards inspection supervision too. Maybe the secretary of state will be able to tell you more about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49785	I thank my colleague Križanić for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At the very beginning, I must say that I am extremely pleased to come from the county which is one of the best examples of best practices for the development of aquaculture in a particular area, it is Zadar County. In some ways, the Zadar County has set four types of areas for the activities of cultivation in accordance with the Regulation on the eligibility criteria of parts of the marine good for fish and other marine organisms and has simply shortened the maximum administrative procedure and thus monitors the county development strategy in which aquaculture is recognised as an important driver of the economic development of the county. Unfortunately, there are some other examples similar to this, but there are also those counties that do not use all their potentials. One of the reasons is perhaps the lack of a separate law which would in some way open a space to reduce administrative barriers to reducing the length of the administrative concession procedure itself, but regulated in many other ways this particular segment. As the State Secretary of State said in her opening address, we, in some ways, created a framework through this law for the application of the 2013 EC Regulation. And in fact, that way, I think that I hope that we will use EU funds more effectively, among other things. What I was worried about, I mean I won't say worried, but your finding, I think we know that two types of support are actually used in this area, one is support from a state budget that has nothing to do with that part of co-financing for EU funds and the other are key, so that's that ESI Fund and that other Maritime and Fisheries Fund. This is where we sort of allocated 350m euros by 2020. And what, then, for the perspective until 2020. And actually this dynamic, now we're somewhere at 150 million kuna, we should make pretty much an effort to take what's at our disposal and what's absolutely necessary for our counties. Agriculture is actually a good example of Croatia's export product, unfortunately the EU still fails to meet demand in a way that offers. So 60% of the needs are still being imported. However, there is a single market, not only for the EU as a whole, but also for the Republic of Croatia, with competition in some ways and less because we see that the EU is also calling for the promotion of aquaculture. As far as the law itself is concerned, well, as far as the law itself is concerned, it's perfectly complex, you've already said what we're going to get from it. What is important is that you may not have apostrophe and it is significant that in some ways this area of science, research and industry is increased, it is also extremely important for the quality of products and for the acceleration of the process itself. And there we can make really extra efforts that through lifelong education, through formal conditions of education. Now, Article 28 defines the way licences will be granted. As you said, licenses are introduced instead of current privileges. However, in paragraph 2, it is defined that the minister responsible will grant support in aquaculture to local and regional self-government units. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I hope you didn't want to avoid administrative procedures in this way so that you could, in your own opinion, grant support, I won't be rude now and tell yourself and your own, but grant support to individuals or groups without actually others who feel that they are in any way damaged have the right to any complaints. I hope that's not the intensity of this law, these two paragraphs of these two laws, because if it is, then it's something that's a bad intention at the very beginning. And what else, yes, great funds are foreseen and in the state budget have increased rapidly compared to last year, state support. So for 2017, it is not small money, it has tripled the amount to be allocated from the state budget, which will not be taken from the EU but will be paid by Croatian citizens. Therefore, I say that it is extremely important for this procedure to be granted concessions, i.e. the permit to be extremely transparent. So if we exempt all the funds that we can withdraw from the operational budget of 2014-2020 means 63 million kuna in the state budget, it is reserved which 55 million seems to me to be for fishing, aquaculture and fish processing and 8 million kuna support due to reduced income resulting from the losses incurred. Now, as a result of the losses that have taken place, in most cases we're talking about land-based aquaculture means ponds. And now, I'm just curious because it's an increase in resources in a kind of product, i.e. byproduct of a study on the determination of damage lost on carpal ponds, I'm curious why this study if it's passed and it's because it's the basis for this increase in funds why this study isn't available to the public? The study on the determination of the loss of profits in carpal ponds, which in some ways resulted in this threefolding of funds in the state budget in 2017 compared to the year before, year before, etc., etc. I don't mind support, I don't mind compensation in any way, but I'm saying, I'm pushing for full transparency of procedures because the amounts are not small and we need to watch where we invest the funds so she can come back to us multiple times. The SDP will support this bill, you have managed through it in some way to open the legal preconditions for resolving the key two elements in the strategic guidelines of the European Commission. So this is the issue of the authorisation process for aquaculture activities and the issue of spatial planning, i.e. the availability of water and space. I hope that spatial planning in this part will also level the criteria specifically for development, when we talk about the development of aquaculture in land areas because there is practice quite uneven. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49787	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac for this debate. Final word on behalf of the applicant State Secretary Marija Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49788	Thank you very much. I would like to thank all MPs and MPs for their constructive proposals and discussions, so I will briefly look back on growing mussels, i.e. mussels in the area of the city of Sibenik and Sibenik-Knin County. We believe that this law has made progress on co-ordination with regard to spatial planning, but there is not a main body in the system of the Ministry of Agriculture which will seek to cooperate more and more and more closely with other competent authorities of the state administration. As regards the use of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, it should be pointed out that the agreement of last year has been nearly tripled, today we have agreed about 460 million kuna, our consumption is not at that level, 150 million kuna, but we expect that with the processing and spending of two large tenders by the end of the year we will significantly reduce this difference between consumption and bargaining. In any case, there is, with the closure of the previously unclosed fund and the uncertified costs that are now certified, significant progress in bargaining and demand. In the section relating to the definition of irregular acts in... There's nothing new about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the same for all funds, for all modes of use, I can't comment on it right now except to say that we haven't done anything new, that the process is transparent, there are defined accredited bodies in the system that have to do this seriously, there are controls and surveillance and that will be conducted in such a transparent and clear way. As regards state aid, in particular in this section relating to support for the eco-system of ponds, which you pointed out, unfortunately we have not yet spent the planned funds for this support, because in 2016 the transitional period was completed. All types of state aid, so those separated from the EU structural policy, were to be ratified in time, we made the study you mentioned, which is the basis for the notification, in that part we reacted spotlessly. We have sent a notification request and we are trying to speed it up in order for our ponds to get the support they really need because the estimated damages are greater than they were originally said and that these support and the planned funds to be spent indeed on this purpose. There's so much about it. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49789	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Ms. Maria Vukkovic. We have one replica. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49790	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I was actually responding to the topic of spatial planning. So, the only reason it was a pilot project and why we're going into a special law is the topic of spatial planning. When it comes to aquaculture, then what was happening on land was a problem in spatial plans and couldn't get permission if it wasn't at sea like a colleague said, we often have different purposes and then one purpose excludes another, but somehow we appreciate that the adoption of this law and active participation through the creation of a state spatial plan, later and other spatial plans will probably solve this problem because if something isn't in the spatial plan, there can be no licenses and there is a problem of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49791	I thank my colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. No answer, thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on this point when you get the terms. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Ms. Maria Vukkovic, for these reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49792	Proposal for a law on aquaculture, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 177. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. It accepts from the Proposal for a Law on Aquaculture and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 122 votes to reach the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49793	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Animal Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 147 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. The amendments were submitted by representative Veljko Kajtazi, representative Marin Škibola, representative of Stjepan Kovač, representative of Predrag Matic and the Clubs of Representatives of the Living Wall, HNS and GLAS and HSU. Proposer representative Mr. Secretary of State Željko Kraljevič will give us an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49794	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the final proposal of the Animal Protection Act, the second reading, we've done a lot of things in the last year of the debate, we've heard all the suggestions, and in the end we have the final version. The final proposal of the Animal Protection Act shall be laid down in the provisions of national interest in the field of animal welfare, as well as provisions which shall be fully adopted by the EU Directive, the European Parliament and the Council of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the request of the European Commission in an e-pilot, subject-matter 86/26. By taking over the provisions of the EU Directive, it concerns amendments related to the purpose of carrying out attempts on human deaths in experiments. The period within which the competent authority shall notify the user by electronic means of the deficiencies to be removed and the conditions for the modification and renewal of the approval of the project itself. It is very important for us to take over these directives in our own legislation and for the sake of animal welfare, especially in the area of agriculture where our producers, farmers are given equal participation in the EU common market and a basis is created for the withdrawal of funds from EU funds, with the support to invest in agricultural economies in animal welfare and in line with the rural development programme 2014-2020. The final proposal of the Animal Protection Act prescribes the responsibilities and obligations of natural and legal persons for the protection of animals during use, including the protection of their life, health, well-being, the way animals are treated, the conditions necessary for the protection of animals in the holding, breeding and conduct of procedures on animals, the death, transport, use of animals for scientific purposes, the keeping of animals in zoos, circuses, and other performances in the sale of pets, and the treatment of abandoned lost animals, inspection and infringement provisions. In relation to the applicable legislation, a further ban on the non-compliant treatment of animals is laid down. Throwing firecrackers at animals, keeping dogs permanently tied up, keeping wild animals in catering facilities and so on. Protection, pets during their breeding, holding, traffic and selling, control of the reproduction of pets, in areas where large numbers of abandoned dogs have been identified. Registration of pet owners, intended for sale with less than 3 expenditure females and the same type of animals, i.e. the possibility of units of local self-government setting up coordination working groups to monitor this problem and improve... An animal in their units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also extremely important that the animals will no longer be killed after 60 days of staying in shelters, but the animals in shelters will remain until home, that is, all of our shelters will be no kill shelters. In addition to the veterinary and agricultural inspection powers for the conduct of the inspection control, powers have been conferred on the communal directors. This law allows pet breeders, whether they have a meal or more females from which they sell cubs, to participate in the transport and trade of animals. At the same time, conditions are prescribed and by allowing the conduct of a supervisory increase... the animals until rearing during transport and for sale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the purpose of reducing the population of abandoned dogs, units of local self-government are required to ensure that until 30.6.2018 they are controlled by the implementation of mandatory micro-chip, provided by the veterinary law, in the possession of dogs whose dogs are not listed in the pet register. In the register of pets, it is possible to enter data for the purposes of establishing and working a single information centre, for abandoned and lost animals, which will allow public insight into all abandoned animals in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of hosting them. Also get in the register of pets for needs... the pet owner, with less than 3 breeding females for animal sales, shall establish the records of the animals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ensuring care for abandoned animals in shelters is an expensive measure, which today is a civilizational level. However, in order to ensure that animals are truly well-being and united in reducing the cost of the care of abandoned animals, it is necessary to implement how preventive measures to mark dogs with microchips, to control the declaration and not to abandon animals, and to support those measures through funding programmes, i.e. co-financing of those measures, which, during a certain period, will certainly reduce the issuing of units of local animal self-government for animal care. The implementation of this law shall be ensured through inspection, which shall be carried out by veterinarians, i.e. agricultural inspectors, the Ministry of Agriculture, and municipal directors in accordance with the general acts of the representative body of the units of local self-government. Simply put, the message of this law is that the law attached will increase animal welfare during their possession and use. The prohibitions of the use of animals in certain areas shall be established and provisions which contribute to the day-to-day improvement of animal welfare shall be laid down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49795	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Zeljko Queen, for this explanation. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. We have one replica. Dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49796	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to say that it is proof that this law is well-prepared and reaction to certain animal protection associations, so that is how I was addressed by the Animal Friends Association, who specifically pointed out that they are extremely pleased with this law. However, they have some suggestions and think that in some other parts, some provisions may even improve slightly. I have possessed these suggestions for you, so please consider them, so if possible, install them, or some provisions, to further improve to consider whether it is possible for the Government to go along with some amendments to their proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49797	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. No answer, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, dear colleague Tomislav Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49798	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Here we have a law before us that definitely has support in a wider public that they actually think we've made a civilization step and that stopping the killing of animals in shelters is the correcting of an injustice that has been inflicted. What's new is sanctions if the law doesn't apply. It means that the irresponsible, not only those who are obliged to establish such shelters, cities, counties, municipalities, but also citizens will be sanctioned. What should be said is that during the debate on the parliamentary committee, the agreement on almost all points was practically complete. Except, of course, one article and that article... We've talked a lot. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we've exhausted both the secretary of state and all of us together, because we couldn't agree well on the model of financing the shelter if we had districts determined that one such shelter had to be established on it, and here we had on the board an intervention where such a provision is considered contrary to the freedoms of entrepreneurship because founders can also be natural legal persons that this provision of restriction is actually an obstacle to the development of entrepreneurship. I would not have gone deeper into it but would have only about the financing pointed out that so far, of course, that it was not binding in that sense and that local self-government had avoided, had been met, there were all sorts of discussions where instructions and examples of resolution were made under some short procedure. But it's really left that local self-government within its capabilities will get a new load of these. So they will be forced to pay that all their citizens too, taxpayers have to pay for something that individuals do. Of course, we are there that all of us who are on local self-government are present not only to have some tasks that are... but also to find a model that would be fair, just that any local self-government leader can explain that we participate in this, we participate, we understand, we want to educate, and we believe that this good law should not be compromised by the debate of just what kind of payment will be. Since it has already been determined that the area of one county is a criterion that must be held for shelter, and currently these counties do not have Ličko-senjska, Brod-Posaviska, Dubrovnik-Neretvaska then it is okay to organise and finance in this area. And that's why we think from the debate which was that it would certainly be a good proposal to include not only local self-government units in the county but also the county itself, and that the criterion would be their income, so that it would be proportionate to the strength and to determine the amounts that someone would finance because if we talk about amounts greater than 500 thousand kuna then we can see that it would significantly burden any budget and that they needed breath, they needed space. In this way everyone would get a little hurt, a little municipality, a little county, but we think that in that case it would have a better effect. Is when we look at the counties' responsibilities, they would also be careful to organise joint educational activities that would prevent animals from being left on the street, abandoned, and only consider how it would be that a local self-government should deal with the issue of education of its citizens, whether they have capacity, human capacity, whether they have knowledge, how we will implement these measures. We'll find ourselves in a situation where we have the sole payment and the inability to get rid of something, and everyone else will just raise their hands and say we don't want to get too involved in it, you pay so get along. And then it will depend on the skills of the local self-government leaders, it will depend on the situation of their budgeting, on some other obligations, and I'm afraid it might come to that end, that someone says I can't pay me. Would that be the first time? What about that local self-government that, for example, Is there a blocked account? If we're gonna send them an extra blockade and tell them here we're waiting for you, and the rest of you are paying a little more for what the shelter has to do. So we think that this is kind of a move like this right now, this is kind of a step away from a strict provision, and it would empower all of us to be able to take it easier where it will end up being paid, and local self-government is not the only obligation. What is an additional obligation is the authority of the communal directors. My community doesn't have a communal director. I know a bunch of neighbors who don't have a communal director, so I wonder, okay? Of course the citizens will report there's an abandoned animal or dangerous animal, you need to remove it and call your community and the city, who's going to take it? Then usually the chief will be probably the greatest communal officer, and then he'll go because I can't pay him out of someone else's budget, and then I'll get caught up in that job by myself, so I'll get the vehicle he's got or whatever it is I don't know, put it in or keep it. How do you intend to identify a certain animal and say, hello we call you to take her away, but here she is, in the meantime, lost. Will those shelters have will, desire seek? As long as we can talk from one county area about the differences that are within tens of miles, someone comes somewhere to take over that animal, it can only happen that they won't find it there at all or that we won't know how to solve it. So you're going to pay for one favor that's practically not going to be done. And yet again, we have alluded to irresponsible owners. Surely you won't find anywhere or very few people to say you shouldn't take care of animals or those who say leaving animals, domestic animals perhaps during the holidays or what's even worse, while now most people are moving abroad becoming a problem. And we're not going to solve the problem, we're just going to burden the community. I would say on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club that we will support this bill but the answer to what kind of funding it will be is on the ruling majority. So don't create a new imposition that will be so exclusive but let's try to find co-existence because they've always worked well so far when both county and cities and municipalities have sought a common solution and have been support in all forms of financial obligations. Because we also have numerous examples especially of the transportation of students when the state, the county, the municipalities, the cities were involved to fund it impeccably. And I don't see any reason why we wouldn't have a model like that here either, and that would also remove the biggest obstacle that would appear among the parliamentarians when they had to vote and they know, the one who is the leader of local self-government that has put additional burden on himself and his citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49799	I thank my colleague Panenic for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I agree with my colleague Panenic in most of your presentations, this is indeed one civilizational step with this law. I mean, it's right to say that one who doesn't like animals doesn't like people either. And I own a foster cat, a cat, so I'm sensitive to that area. But you've touched one key thing, but who's going to finance it? And in fact, what is crucial in Croatia in all the laws, and even in this law, that we actually have devastation areas and that now these areas where there are no more people, who have no other activities, must finance asylum, castration, sterilization. And we're going to be in a paradoxical situation if this amendment is not accepted that we're going to have local self-government places where there's going to be animal asylum but there's going to be no people left. So we're actually in a closed circle, so Croatia, local units don't have money, this is a civilization step but we can't finance it. That's all I wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49801	I thank you for the replica of my colleague, Sladolev. The answer of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49802	Here's a colleague like you said you had a Maca, I'm between 9 and 11, depending on the season when he shows up, of course he cares about them and feeding is definitely an obligation, and when we go somewhere we should always find someone to take care of them. And then there's that 9, 11, and it's asking a question, and what if someone so irresponsible leaves them all of a sudden? So it's not just one animal, there can be more of them all of a sudden. So if we're talking about a shelter where there's 50, and what if that's how I'm left with 9, 10, 11, there's someone else's place, so we only have before one holiday holiday, it's a miracle that suddenly there's a lot of it and then it's getting bigger. And then it turns out that some local self-government leader is going to say if there's a penalty between 15 and 30 thousand kunas, so let's just raise the money and pay that fine, and in the end maybe it's cheaper than suffering like this. And again, we come to the question of who I am as head of the local self-government that I will bring, in fact, under such pressure to convey everything without being able to work hard in the Parliament, through debate or by my own vote to say it, let's also accept such a proposal and extend that funding base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49803	I thank my colleague Panenic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49804	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, respected MPs. We have before us a second reading of the new Animal Protection Act, which, as we have already heard, is extremely well received from the interested public, security associations and animal shelters. It is certain that there was a need to reconcile the other side, there are units of local self-government that pay for the state that commands and, of course, those third-party associations. This proposal of the Animal Protection Act shall take into account the need to protect the welfare of animals during their use either as farm animals, experimental animals, zoo animals or pets in various activities of breeding, keeping, working, selling, fun to socialise with animals as pets. With this new law, we further extend the range of illicit animal activities such as dupins, human and animal sexual relations, harvesting live animals’ feathers, shooting animals, throwing firecrackers, using hooves to extract troops except in exceptional conditions, exposing dogs with bought ears and keeping bears captive. And it's all normal for us now, but it's all been done so far. And of course, further progress of technology will stop the need to use horses with so-called. samarizing in inaccessible forest areas, which is also the basis of the law for the future. This law also mentions the extraction of logs and the export of wood. However, I believe that other horse work should be very clearly distinguished, so the difference in the work in the forest, it's called so-called. renting. These works include not only the extraction of logs but the export of wood from the forest by horsebacks which cannot be subjected to the same concept but do not have the same weight in terms of well-being. I believe that this kind of shop in specific situations, therefore inaccessible terrains and in controlled conditions can be allowed and should be allowed because otherwise these working animals will disappear, people will not keep them just to hold them. The proposed law sets out the obligation for competent authorities of the state administration, bodies of units of local, regional, regional self-government, to develop public awareness of young people in particular, including owners of animals in animal protection. By strengthening the awareness of consumers who show an increasing interest in animal products held on farms with high standards of well-being that cross the minimum requirements, this law is also a good basis for further development of animal welfare conditions for breeding using rural development funds or programmes of measures aimed at improving animal welfare. This is an extremely important segment of farming animals not only for the sake of well-being but also for the use of generous means that encourage higher levels of well-being from EU funds, EU rural development funds, without the use of which our cattlemen will be difficult to compete with EU cattlemen. I've already talked about it, but it should be made very clear once again that, for example, in Finland, from these sources for prescribed higher standards of breeding of sows, for example. Greater floor squares, full floor, free keeping of animals, natural light, ventilation, prescribed drinking water, veterinary care, etc., livestock farmers from EU common funds receive 300 euros per feeder per year, which means that the Finnish EU farmer is refurbished every year by each feeder. The Finns have withdrawn around 100m euros for the 2014-2020 budget period. We haven't pulled anything from these sources to this day. And then how would we be competitive? We must, therefore, urgently create preconditions for the withdrawal of EU rural development funds, adopt a national programme on superstandards. Secretary of State, emergency. Other ways, so-called. the hidden domestic production of certain Member States not to speak. This law further encourages responsible possession of animals in all areas of animal use, especially pets. As the most sensitive group the public is most interested in, more or less all my predecessors have spoken of by dogs and cats so far. The measures responsible for the possession of a dog or cat are the labelling and vaccination against rabies and other necessary vaccinations, the labelling of vaccinations for animal health and reproductive control, castration and sterilisation as well as one effective measure to reduce the number of abandoned dogs and cats and to avoid abandoning their own pet. I always like to say that stray dogs are gone but dogs all had their own owners only they left them. Further measures laid down by this law lead to the control of the cultivation of pets and the control of their sales with a view to ensuring animal welfare both during breeding and animal reselling. Therefore, by registering pet breeding with three or more breeding females of the same species, the registration of owners with less than three breeding females of the same species should be prescribed if all animals are sold. For the sake of public concern over the abandonment of animals, this bill provides for a more effective solution to that problem to the obligations of animal owners in terms of responsible ownership, labelling, vaccination, care, non-leading and control of the reproduction of local self-government units, or regional, regional self-government of the establishment of shelters and the establishment of coordination working groups and the obligation to increase public awareness in particular of young people. For the purpose of the care of abandoned animals in the area of each unit of the area, regional self-government is prescribed to establish a shelter of at least 50 places. Right on all our boards so far, there's been a debate over those 50 places, whether that's enough, and that's a question of all the questions, very hard to believe that 50 will be enough even though we have confidence that by affecting our people's consciousness, there will be less and less need for places in shelters. The news of course and the great civilizational step as already said, which the animals in the shelter remain until fostering, or no more euthanasia, after 60 days, precisely because of this fact and I feel this fear that I just spoke of. With this provision of the inability of euthanasia, Croatia stands by the shoulders of the EU's most humane countries, but I can tell you very clearly that few EU countries, few large cities of the EU, have and have been able to withstand this provision. Law enforcement and focus efforts and resources on micro-chip control, castration programmes, sterilisation, systematic animal advertising, and education of the population in particular young people, could result in financial savings with the aim of preventing the cause of the problem rather than solving the consequences. For the purpose of preventing excessive reproduction of pets and thus abandoning them, animal owners are obliged to ensure that their reproduction is controlled. In the event that a large number of abandoned dogs are identified in some areas, the way and the financing of the control of the reproduction of abandoned dogs in that area may be ordered by the minister. I have information that fellow Kajtazi has given the amendment that he will be able to order it and the head, the head of the local self-government unit, that's a good intention, but I'm not sure about the efficiency of it. And all the boredom I've been saying is great. We're the best in the world here. However, we now come to that last article, which was a stone with encouragement on all committees. The implementation of the law requires units of local self-government to provide assistance to injured animals and the work of animal shelters, food, vaccination, treatment, at an annual level of 549000 kuna. There will certainly be a very important key. It's not the same if the town of Vodice that has 20,000 inhabitants or I don't know which, Tisno or which municipality there has 1,000, whether each of them will have the same number, the truth number for co-financing. It'll be in someone's sublegal act probably determines. On the other hand, questions arise, what about shelters that have no county. And we know that Brodo-Posavina, Dubrovnik and Lika-Senjska has no shelter and 11 million 529 thousand kunas need to be allocated for that. Excuse me, 13 million 878 thousand kuna. That's where the spear was broken, what to do with. We know that this unit of local self-government was supposed to organize a story among themselves. No one in the world would reconcile and arrange between 20 or 30 or 50 units of local self-government for them to make arrangements in Lika-Senjska or Dubrovačka and even less of Brod County shelter. So then we went after some sort of problem-solving to get the county involved, so that she was the founder of a community with local self-government units, to finance it together. It's some kind of proposal, an amendment that should solve that problem. I'm still afraid of these provisions of these articles that have been incorporated into the law so far. There's nothing new about funding. And so far, all units of local self-government should have handled it in a manner prescribed by law. However, this was not resolved. And finally, I want to say that the pet register of the total amount of 100 000 kuna will be secured from the state budget. Thank you. The HDZ Club will support this very high-quality law in the best intention of making useful and human support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49805	I thank my colleague Križanić for this debate. We have two replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49806	Dear colleague, here he is since you're a veterinarian, so it won't be hard for you to answer the question. We have wild animals in this law and we have domestic animals. So he says that the way to take care of wild animals is to return to the natural environment, means to take care of domestic animals that are without owners to find some kind of shelter, that is, to find the owner. And what about these animals, I've already asked in my first reading, which we can't call wild, or pithy, what about those cats that feed, for example. By containers, are domestic animals, with actually no owners, or can't we call them wild animals? There, that's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49807	I thank you for the replica. The answer of my colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49808	That's what we discussed in our first reading, one half hour. Of course cats aren't wild animals, of course cats are domestic animals and of course they're subject to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49809	I thank you for your response to my colleague Križanić. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49810	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Križanić, I would make a contribution to this debate and how much it will burden the local self-government unit. Namely for our citizens and for those who don't know, here's an example. which is the order of size. The city of Osijek paid almost 6,000 kuna per dog to its veterinary station. The price includes capture, care, vaccination and chipping, sterilization, advertising and fostering. That's exactly what units of local self-government are bound by this law. For these reasons, the city of Osijek made a decision that year when it had a contract like this, with only 500,000 kuna, to hunt only 10 dogs a month. Which means that if you do it in the first couple of bottoms, then for the next 20 days, you can watch stray dogs all over your city. For these purposes, the city of Vodice has singled out 2,000 kuna and has not co-financed the shelter. Now that we add to that the co-financing of the shelter, we need to know what revenue it's coming from. That goes from communal compensation. For these reasons, it may be that some leaders, i.e. city, municipal councils, will go to an increase in municipal compensation. It's not bad to know, the law is good, but to transfer everything to the unit of local self-government means to transfer to our citizens. As far as communal directors are concerned, they also receive new commitments, they are financed from income tax. It can't be influenced by cities and municipalities, just as much as we have employees, so are our incomes. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49811	I thank my colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. The answer of my colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49812	I thank my colleagues, you were the head of the local self-government, and I was that person myself, and I know exactly what you're talking about. And that's why, with one very big fear and fear, I went to this part of the debate, because so far you've paid so much and you said Osijek was hunting 10 pieces, paying 6,000 kuna per dog. So far, the dogs were supposed to stick to 60 days. And now we're coming into this situation, where we're going to keep the dogs to the natural death, and that's the situation, which, so I'm afraid, I've been saying it so far and I'm very clear and I want to say it in front of the Croatian public, that I'm afraid it's going to be 50 places enough or it's going to come to 200 or 300 pieces per shelter. In that case, these funds are going to move times 4, times 5 or times 8. This will, of course, be paid by local self-government. We asked in our first reading to include a bar in solving problems, shelters and states. It's no problem to pass laws and bring them down to a lower level. That's what we talked about then. We prayed for local self-government to be involved. That's not what it was for. When you talk about municipal directors, it's a new imposition, local self-government, new decentralisation of businesses, but not decentralisation of funds, and it's certainly a problem because with these jobs that the municipal directors regularly have to do, they have to do microchip dog-reading jobs, return to the owners for which they will determine the owner, and for which they are not likely to transfer to the shelter. That must be one new extra job, and we're all aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49813	I thank my colleague Križanić for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall, respected colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49814	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are facing the Final Proposal of the Animal Protection Act, and I am pleased to see that this law is good, that during the second reading, it has been improved in relation to the first version and that there are amendments that may eventually be a little more sophisticated. As some announcements of today's debate, a few days ago I watched, I attended the waiting room of a dog to be killed, he was incurably ill, and as he knew where he was taking him, so he whined, yawning, and all the people in the waiting room were shaken, some crying. And I am therefore more pleased to know in some way that, after the adoption of this law, there will be no more killing healthy dogs, not sick, which has been done most of the so-called so-called. animal shelters because there were only six of them so far, so it stops and that's just that if it were new, we from the Living Wall would support it, so that's enough. This is one step forward in the development of the humanity of society, in sensitivity to the weaker and from tomorrow and from the moment this law enters into force Croatia will definitely be a more civilized country, a better country for life than it was until today. It is also good that the final proposal introduces the obligation to microchip animals, which introduces the obligation to publish the number of microchips during sale, which is run by the Pets List, is the introduction of the rule that each county must have a shelter, which we have just heard about, giving the Minister the possibility to prescribe castration in certain areas, here may be the answer to these problems that local funding administration will have. Also, municipal directors are given greater powers to punish irresponsible owners, so this is also one depreciation factor in funding. We heard from Commissioner Lukačić that she was contacted by the Animal Friends Association and they also sent us, and I believe some other clubs also sent an amendment, one part of them we will send on behalf of our club. I'm glad we're working on more sides. In that sense, I'd like to say that we're going to propose an amendment that dogs and cats can't be killed in hunting grounds, so often the owner of the dog lets the dog in some uninhabited area run and he runs into the hunting grounds and there's a murder. Also the execution of so-called death. the test animals yes, but only if the previous attempt to adopt is made, so before dying, you should try fostering them. Also, the amendment to prohibit the organisation of horse racing in the withdrawal of troops held in the Gorski Kotar, Licko-Senj County, the Carlovina County, the Primorje-Gorski County, because such competitions have no other purpose than entertainment, no educational purpose whatsoever, and animals are forced to suffer, to pain, to injury, because they must drag the logs into full speed at two tons of hard times and cause this to happen in them sometimes even death. We will also give an amendment to ban the use of traps for glued animals because these glue traps cause a slow and long-term death of animals that lasts agony for a few days, and these traps are captured by those animals that are not meant for such traps, such as birds or some wild animals, and there are traps that do not die but allow that animal to be released after being caught in a trap and that is in fact a practice in many European Member States. So the amendment to ban the use of glue traps. However, as with first reading, I would like to say here that I would not like this law to be viewed only through the prism of the protection of dogs and cats, but rather to be seen in the context of a broader context, and that is, above all, in the context of meat nutrition. Here today we have a speech by the UN Prime Minister on greenhouse gases, and precisely meat diet causes 53% of greenhouse gases, so four times more than all the cars on the planet Earth. We tend to grieve for one dog or cat, but in the world at this point, 70 billion animals are grown for food, 70 billion will be killed for us to eat. I don't know if you're familiar with the International Water Institute research in Stockholm for one hamburger, the production of one burger is spent 2.5 thousand gallons of water, for a kilo of beef, 20 times more water than for the use of cereal. The entire Amazon has been disembarked for breeding cattle. If grains and other plants were given to animals for food, they could be used to feed 35 billion people or 6 times more than on planet Earth, five times more than on planet Earth. And that's where we get the farm problem, that's where we get the problem of growing these animals that are just incredibly inhumanely growing up. We have a whole marketing of meat where they show us pictures of happy animals all the time, whether it's on a carton of some milk, whether it's chocolate milk or someone else, the animals are happy, on a meadow, in flowers under the sun, and in reality the animals are in completely different conditions. They live in unsanitary conditions in total darkness, concrete, no sun, no light, exposed to countless infections, no sun and movement. And without movement, so not only by accident but also on purpose because the animal that has muscles is not nice to eat, so then it doesn't need to move. Not to mention again how animals are fed to antibiotics, that these antibiotics create super bacteria that therefore develop resistance to these same antibiotics, and that then we have any diseases that carry cow madness, sheep's madness, swine flu, bird flu, etc. In particular, such meat production is a trade chain, a fast food chain. Here's for Kentucky Fried Chicken has been proven in court to give steroids to chickens who in 40 days grew to 2.5kg and were under such a burden that their own legs were broken from such a diet. Of course we should mention both glyphosates and GMOs, that's all given to animals, that's what we end up eating. I would like to remind, among other things, of the shocking findings of the Russian veterinary and phytosanitary services in Croatia, which ultimately states that the conditions in which meat and milk are produced in Croatia are scandalous and thus cite a whole series of examples that make it so. I would like to remind you that last year, the Consumer Association warned that meat sold in Croatian shelves or in the EU is 40 years old. That meat is often twice as cheap in stores as vegetables, like lemons, pumpkins, peppers, are cheaper pork shovels, dudes or I don't know the return. All this is due to the fact that animals are treated inhumanely and that in the end many people have no consciousness about it, they only have consciousness when they see it with their own eyes and when it's somewhere far away and we know that now they've moved all these farms, slaughterhouses outside the cities, then it's none of our business and we feel nothing. Perhaps if this diet were balanced a little bit, maybe if few people were sensitized, eventually our teeth and our digestive tract showed that we didn't need so much meat, maybe there would be less meat, maybe less torture, maybe less greenhouse gases, and maybe it would be for Mr. Križanić less costs. I know he won't accept my views as well as his colleagues, but I don't necessarily address them. And lastly, I would like to say one more thing since here is the second part of the year, and that is another practice that exists in many EU cities and countries, which is that during the celebration, especially in the new year, no explosive means are used, it is forbidden. Why? First of all, for animal protection because during the throwing of firecrackers and other explosive devices, thousands of animals die during the new year of heart attack, they are injured by that fire, then they have PTSD and are simply suffering but it is the same consciousness of our citizens. He's going to moan over one dog, but then he's going to shake out the firecrackers worth two thousand kunas, and yet some animals are going to suffer for it, but it's important that he didn't see it. It all comes down to whether or not I saw it. What I've seen is worth, what I haven't seen doesn't exist. So here I repeat once again the Living Wall will support this law but we believe and hope that there will be further improved animal protection in the future and that we will indeed make progress as a society from that side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49815	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49816	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Comrade Bunjac, here I have listened well to your exposure, and yet I would like to comment on some of the settings, I think that, in general, I agree with your approach, the animals really deserve better treatment and this law is doing a lot of repairs. However, I think that you have exaggerated your diet with animal meat in terms of environmental impact, yet it is man who creates the most difficulty and a major imbalance most burdened by overusing fossil fuels. As far as animals are concerned, just like what you've been saying all these examples, they exist, so from the use I don't know, growth hormone, the use of antibiotics, medicines, all of which is one bad practice that we're exposed to especially if we buy in supermarkets, but I think that in Croatia it's precisely the potential that we have, therefore, a sustainable diet, so in our villages, the animals grow quite differently and I think they live well and of course they're part of the food chain as it already stands, turkey and duck and all that, so I don't think we should go too far, of course, what you're saying is that to the most extent refers to the mass production of food, so chickens and everything expensive, wanting to increase profits, to cut costs, so it really ends up in one absurd you're saying, but it can be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49817	I thank my colleague Dobrovic for the replica. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49818	Thank you very much, Mr. Dobrović, for listening to my debate and giving your consideration. The data that I made, of course, I'm not a climate change researcher, but as I mentioned last week and in general in summer, when it was first reading, we did a lot of communication with animal protection associations, to protect nature, they provided us with very extensive materials, very serious studies, books from which I passed on some of this data. Surely if the Amazon, the Amazon forest is cramped because of the breeding of cattle that the impact on climate change is great, we had in Croatia the last days at the end of each day we look at inappropriate weather, unusual weather, surely there is a cause. The causes are hidden and people are, therefore, clear that something behind it all stands. What you want anyway, what you might want to mention, I agree with that, that you shouldn't be a fanatic. So you don't have to go to some other extreme now and accuse everyone, as it is called, of going to some kind of sectarianism because whatever man does, he'll always kill animals, it's just like that. We should practically stop, don't walk, don't breathe so animals don't kill because as we walk, as we drive a car, I never know what we're stopping at, run some animal simply in some way it's inevitable by our own actions. But to be able in this part where we agreed, in this mass food production, on those farms, on those so-called. I think there's still a lot of room here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49819	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB representative club, respected counterpart Branko Hrg. He's not present. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. We started climate change today, and as we may already pass that second day, climate change is obviously a motto all day, but let's go back to the topic, the subject is the Animal Protection Act. That law when it was in the first reading was then a very interesting debate in which many of us participated, and in this debate we really concluded some things, it was good to repeat them. It's about the law that we all rated as good, we all rated it to be an improvement in that sense, but the fact that we've rated as parliamentary representatives, of course we've also used field experiences and we've heard a little bit of what they say and associations that deal with animal protection and it's good when you have a single law in Parliament procedure and it's good when he's from different aspects well rated. There were, of course, issues that opened up when we discussed in the first reading, and these topics should be subdued now. So this law is really good, affirmative, it speaks in favour of what and how to protect, hold, grow, kill, keep animals, certain procedures. In this sense, indeed, Croatia is shown to be one country with sensitivity. What we see in situations where we move to be a little different than they were before, and when there's a lot of abandoned animals happening primarily regardless of what we have to take care of, we're all talking about dogs and cats, and that's your season of vacations. So then there are seasons of vacations for the continent when it descends to the sea, then it's increased in cities, and there's a return to land on the sea because someone takes a cat or a dog and then doesn't take it with them, but then leaves it, let's say, I'm looking at my colleague Juričev Martinchev, and then she leaves it on worry. This law also has something that laws usually don't have and it's very easy when we need the effect of regulations on the financial side, then they say this law will have no effect. This law has. We can discuss whether it's small or in some way in the discussion, it's shown to be small, but it does. And in this law it is clear that from the state budget, three new shelters should be provided in 3 counties, Brod Posavina, Dubrovnik-Neretva and Licko-Senjska, approximately 4 million and 600 thousand kuna per county. And then he says that at the level of 50 animals it's in the amount of, like, 11 million kunas, 21 shelters. And we can talk about whether it's much or little. And just like that, in one other law, we talked about what decentralisation is. Here the jobs are down to the local self-government unit, we have 556, and this really needs to be done, that there are those who are already doing a lot of things well, there are those who don't. And this is what we're giving them some new commitments. I'm sure after the debate that was today, but also the debate that will be, where we're all full of decentralisation mouths, that we're ready, when it comes to financing units of local self-government, we'd like to have a broad debate and see what to change there because simply, those things won't be able to do. I can't even go through this debate, past the communal directors. A fellow Panenic when he spoke, he said, there are no municipal directors in my municipality. About the municipal directors, you have 100th in the City of Zagreb, which can really be allowed and well teamed. But you have municipalities and cities that don't have them or you have one for the area of 2 municipalities and cities. And now that poor guy, I really have to call him that, communal director, he'll have to react first, if someone says there's no certificate of energy efficiency at school, so he goes there. Well, if he's somewhere by the sea, and someone tells him someone's here to sell purses, and he doesn't have a bench, then 10 to 11 does it. Then he's behind it, someone put a squat where he shouldn't, so he's working on it. And then the neighbor says, my neighbor builds a fence, the communal directors go to see what this guy with that fence does or doesn't do. Then you give yourself certain traffic-related jobs, even if someone has parked on the green surface, it's no longer in the jurisdiction, but it's the jurisdiction of the communal director, and now this communal director is going to come looking, because, let's say, in the apartment across from me, I conclude, those who have their dog, and that's the case, that this dog is scratching on the door at night, that it's too long, that they don't behave the way they do. Now he's gonna come over there, ring the doorbell, tell me you give me a ID, so let's see the chip, so what's the owner and everything else. One 4.5 years ago in the City of Zagreb, a man like this on the way forgets something, it was the mayor's idea to do DNA, or DNA analysis, so, that dogs are being chipped, that then these chipped dogs that we know how it is and when of course, it's a chance to see in certain parts of the city, that unconscious dog owners, we talk about dogs, leave the feces behind, and now that you from that DNA analysis determine which dog owner doesn't care, so that he's being punished. So these are the things where we go to the extreme. On the one hand, this is what my colleague Kajtazi, who speaks for me, will talk about these herds, about the right of dogs, which are located in certain settlements, in the city of Zagreb, although this was not introduced because it could not be introduced. What exactly am I trying to say? I want to say that this law also points to a few things. The first thing, we have a good regulation, we're all affirmative of them, we're all very pleased. As good as that regulation will be, it depends on how well it will be implemented on the ground. The terrain is our municipalities and cities. And he will be well-implemented, as much as they will have the means and the people to do it. You will have municipalities and cities that will have resources, people will have to do it and those who do not have it will have to say it clearly. So, really, regardless of what's late and weak, we listen to each other because it's been a very hard day, what really shows is that they can't and can't be full of decentralisation, without from this level, from this state level, we don't know how these municipalities and cities are going to function. This is where my colleague Juričev Martinchev said that we financed it from the utility fee. And if it's true, I'll have a community fee for one more time, but at one point, that communal fee is going to turn into something else, become a tax, and then something different will be financed from it. What exactly am I trying to say? I mean, when we introduce obligations by law, when we give the law additional jobs, municipalities and cities, that law certainly has its own financial character. It would be good if we knew where they'd finance it, it would be good if we had funding models, we still don't have it. We're easily transferring these jobs to municipalities and cities and as we're very easily transferring jobs to utility offices, so they're really doing things right now, I think they're not doing things, they're not doing funerals, if I'm not wrong, but other things are being done. That's where my colleague Bunjac was talking about the amendments. So, animal protection associations, of course, because they're satisfied with this law, they all show satisfaction, but they said, it would be good to do something else. It's always a problem for you, when you do something right, then we all say it, it's good, but give it a little bit better. When you do something wrong, then we all say it's bad and when you do something a little better, we're all happy. Now this is the case, when you've done well, we're all happy, but we want something better. You will probably get a set of similar or similar amendments. I ask you nicely, although it is common, that when an amendment is received that the amendments are then rejected, think about it a little bit, because these amendments can only really be affirmative and improve. We didn't talk about one thing here, and that's something that's stated in the law and that's traditional bull fights. If Spain doesn't have any problem, the first thought we have when someone says Spain is behind it Flamengo and there's no problem in actually giving it up through the laws and in reality. I don't think we should have a problem in that sense, along with all those amendments Mr. Bunjac spoke about, so my colleague Kajtazi will still have around the same or similar structure, I'm asking you to think about it more. So everyone can live their lives, their battle come they can actually brag, you can show off but there's really no need to bully an animal to fight an animal. This Animal Protection Act has another good part, that's the educational part. We naturally see that both our children and everyone else treat animals are really much better than they were. Animals are exactly what their owners are. Croatia has some advantages and some traditional values that we should continue to have. I had a chance ten years ago and I was in the Netherlands for a time, in the Netherlands to have special farms where kids come to watch animals, I'm afraid some kids aren't far away about it, but they also had farms where you could your cat or dog when you went or some other animal there were left by different animals and then when you came back for it. Here's the end, we'll support the law, we supported it in the first reading, it's really good, it shows a step, it shows some values that Croatia has come to. It is good that you can see these values in nature in everyday life, when you do what I said and I say good regulation then you get the amendments to make it even better, so here I am asking the State Secretary and colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture to maybe make a little effort, see these amendments, so if more has given us the same amendments might still be worth fitting into the bill, and they will actually be only an improvement and will show a good will to do better and better regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49821	I thank my colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash, for this debate. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49822	Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. You said 11 million kunas a lot or a little and what we're all aware of whenever something needs to be imposed on someone as a commitment then it goes to units of local self-government, cities and municipalities. First of all, having an animal, a dog, or a cat, or already having a pet behind it takes responsibility for that living creature that it has. No stray dog has ever become a stray that before that had any owner, that someone had held him somewhere and that wasn't when he must have gotten bored... on what floor he let out in some town or municipality to become the community's concern. The issue of this law is now being raised in figures 50 and 590 thousand kuna, which must be provided for the work of that shelter in which the animal is likely to remain forever and until home. In my experience, these are free textbooks for about 400 children with work notebooks and all the money the local self-government unit has to provide. And the behavior of the owner, I took part in the preparation of the amendments because this year I witnessed a series of cases where such owners lead dogs in nature to run out a little bit and then we found a living lanad torn apart, and there's pictures of what it looks like to you and today these owners still lead it and let it go in the hunting grounds because they love their pet very much, but they don't care what that pet does to other living beings in that and that kind of hunting ground. On that basis, I think that to prescribe penalties for irresponsible owners, for those who have not been chipped, there are those who have long passed the law, for those who do not care about their animals because cities and municipalities can do as much. My city is paid for a dog whose owner hid a million and 500 thousand kunas of court judgment by a final verdict because the dog ran out there was a car accident, the family sued. The owner of the dog never showed up, and under the Mandatory Relations Act, the local self-government unit was again responsible. When you add up all these funds, it's huge money that the local self-government unit doesn't have at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49823	I thank my colleague, Klaric. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49824	Well, here's the thing, so every time the regulations are passed, no matter how positive, affirmative, better, and we transfer our obligations to local self-government units, which I generally advocate, and I advocate that as many jobs there are done, but there's no money. And that should be made clear, and we from this pay phone make it clear that there is not enough resources. And the relationship to any pet is the attitude of a man to him from which you read the owner. I've had a chance to do something, of course we have a family of dogs and fishes, and I don't know what you don't, so whatever, you have a fish tank, and when you go on vacation, then you have to cool it because it's too hot or you have to heat it up, then I'm the one who dragged those fish out there, you just can't treat the fish like that, let alone something else. And there was a dog whose breed is so aggressive, and I said it was aggressive, and the lady who deals with it says he's not aggressive, he's aggressive, the owner taught him aggression. So he's always behind everything, man. As we really said in the morning, I'm going back to climate change, climate change is the result of what we've been doing. However, it really is important to keep in mind that simply municipalities and cities are unable to work. The communal director can't do some business in the municipality if he's divided by three municipalities of a municipal director. He only goes by and everything he's got and we have to be aware of it. So the means and quality fit that's what you're missing right now. We miss it just as much and quality frame to get it you have to pay for it. And what are we going back to at the end of the day? To the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49825	I thank my colleague, Anki Dark-Taritash, for your reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, dear colleague Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49826	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. And in this second reading, I welcome the Government's proposal for a Animal Protection Act that provides a series of provisions that will improve the existing situation when we talk about animal protection. I can see a special step in Article 52(5), which states that if a large number of abandoned dogs, the way and the financing of controls, the reproduction of abandoned dogs in the area of certain units of local or regional self-government can be ordered by the minister. We all know that these units containing a large number of abandoned dogs are Roma settlements. I personally am not familiar with other places in the Republic of Croatia where there are such huge numbers of dogs as in Roma settlements. Last time I told you that we were in Kursanac near Čakovec, in a Roma village we have 400 dogs registered and so much more in nearby asylum. I expect the Minister of Agriculture Tolusic to take advantage of the powers he will receive under this law and immediately go into damage recovery. I expect that, in accordance with Article 52, he orders that problems be resolved throughout Međimurska in 12 Roma settlements, in other counties for the welfare of both these animals and citizens. These animals need to be sterilized, we need to find the means to make these veterinary inspections work, and we will at least temporarily stop at the end of the problem, or stop it from spreading for years. I warned two years ago that we had to do this. The two governments were changing and nothing was done. In the meantime, the problem has become only bigger. I'll say right now, if we do what this bill gives us and sterilize all those fire dogs we've put out only temporarily. Why? Because the black market for animal sales or their breeding is absolutely irregular. It's easy to buy animals in a commercial like buying a home machine. Unresponsible individuals leave this animal in some established practice in Roma settlements because they know that it will be the easiest place to survive there. The media, of course, of course, made Roma abusers and murderers of these animals in the past, but of course that's not the case in reality. Of course there was an incident but no one is talking about the cause of the problem and this is a lack of animal control, the responsibility of individuals and the power of the state to deal with the problem in one serious way. Transferring responsibility to local self-government units, communal directors and veterinary clinics is essentially a cleanup of responsibility. In a systematic manner, it is necessary to give authority to persons who, according to the model of some serious states, would in continuity care for the welfare of all animals and pets and those who are grown for other purposes. This law is good because it sets out provisions that prohibit and further regulate inappropriate behaviour towards animals such as cutting the ears of dogs, their constant binding and keeping them in closed rooms, the use of animals in circus performances, their abuse, etc., but that is not enough. Following this, the Club of National Minorities will support the adoption of such a law and in other readings because it promotes the existing situation but I also submit an additional amendment to this bill, the 1st and that concerning the power of the minister I spoke about, I believe that units of local self-government could do the same. In this respect, an item should be added to point out that units of local self-government may prescribe permanent sterilisation as a mandatory way to control reproduction. The second, when it comes to animal breeding for the purpose of selling to me, it is not acceptable to do so without a decision on the registration of breeding by the competent authority. In that sense, the 2nd amendment, which I think some of the other colleagues submit similarly, is deleted in such a way that the words ‘three or more breeding females of the same species’ are deleted in Article 54, and paragraph 1 is now read as follows: ‘The breeding of pets intended for the sale cannot begin without a solution for the registration of breeding carried out by the competent authority.’. I repeat, apart from the ceasefire and the subsequent solutions to the damage that has taken place, we must be wise enough and, in the future, to the greatest extent possible, to find ourselves in a similar situation within a few years. Roma and Roma communities are the ones who care about animals, and that's the message I want to send from this place. I call on the competent authorities to implement this law and to even think about the establishment of a state agency that would have the power to enforce the law for the benefit of animals because, except in these exceptional situations, it cannot be the job of a minister or a ministry. Finally, I would like to point out that, just as a minority representative, I was talking about a general problem concerning all our citizens, in cooperation with the government and Minister Tolusic, which I spoke to yesterday, Secretary of State Majdak, animal protection associations, which I thank thanks this way for suggestions and assistance. Why do I point out that as a minority advocate, I was talking about a general issue? I point out that because some think that minority representatives should not vote and discuss such problems, they should bring us down to some committees and folklore to protect us from politics. They forget that in 700 years, Roma and other minorities have never had their vote in parliament and that the time has finally come to join in this segment. They object to us that we have few votes even though they themselves have fewer than we do. The marginals are more extreme and they don't want to admit that just because we're small and vulnerable, we need to talk about all our problems in this Visko home. Those who bring us down to statistics and disrespect the Constitution are just followers of those who make us so few. It should not be forgotten that almost all Roma were killed in 1942. Now that we've reached the figure on the population list we had 70 years ago, we're in their eyes again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49827	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Katazia. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49828	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We're talking about the Animal Protection Act, but it looks to me like we're talking about the Cat and Dog Protection Act. So here, somehow every debate, every replica was about dogs and cats and other animals don't exist, so I can say that it's a little bit expensive, it's hypocritical. So we're here focusing on two kinds of animals, not to say debauchery and the others as if they didn't exist. But here, here it was just one small object, and now a little bit here's the metric, or I'm the law. The law itself is good, no one has anything against the protection of cats and dogs but we're talking about shelters. Here, the proposer foresaw this law that every county must establish a shelter, which in principle is not bad. However, here I must say that all counties are not equal. So that the establishment of a shelter that is very expensive, some say 5 million kuna, will be equally expensive for Licko-Senj County, which today has I think, barely 40,000 inhabitants, as well as for the city of Zagreb which has 700 thousand inhabitants or Split-Dalmatia County which has 450 thousand inhabitants. And let's not talk about finances that are significantly different. Then if by this law, here I have invested one amendment, it will be possible to conclude a contract exclusively with a shelter located in the area of this regional self-government, then the units of local self-government that are on the border, they will be in a more unfavourable position, they will simply have to work with perhaps some shelter that is further away than the shelter in the neighbouring county. With the fact that I have to say more here, competition itself is good and competition lowers prices. We just heard an example of Osijek where there were as many as 6,000 kunas in the care of a dog. If they were to allow only one shelter to exist in the county, I'm sure most of the county would soon have prices similar to that in the absence of profit. And finally, the question arises what about that 51 dog or 51 cat in the shelter? Once again, this animal will have to be taken care of elsewhere, so here it is, I suggest that the amendment be adopted, to allow the care of animals in shelters and neighbouring counties. In some conversation about this topic someone said this must not be business and it is not an emergency, I agree that it must not be business, the animal should be cared for in another way, but what is left exclusively to local and regional self-government, in the end it is not so effective when doing this private sector, my experience... that it is significantly more effective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49829	I thank my colleague Zekanovic for this debate. The next debate is individual, respected colleague Predrag Matic. He's gone. Next, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49830	Thank you, Your Excellency. The topic is animal protection and unlike the rest of the collectives, I'll give you a message that may not be conventional and not conventional because animals have no right to vote in the Parliament. So they can't speak, they can't actually say what's going on in the slaughterhouses and they can't convey the harsh reality that they witness every day. I would therefore like to read this occasion a letter from my dear friend Robert Medjugorje, who advocates a free animal, this is his message. He says, ladies and gentlemen, every year, people get fat and slaughter 60 billion land animals and trillions of those who live in rivers and seas. In Croatia, this dark trend is consistently followed, so every year people kill thousands of cows, pigs, horses, chickens, carps, sheep, turkeys, goats, etc. Even though we know it's about conscious and sensitive individuals, that each of them is completely unique and unrepeated, that their life has an intrinsic life and what's most regrettable in all, that these animals are completely innocent. So they weren't killed because they did something wrong, they were actually killed by the will of someone else. People equally, this is terrifying, equal in intensity, killing both parents and children of enslaved animals. They have no mercy on the old. Not according to young people, not to patients, not to healthy animals. So people kill all animals in order. All are destined for the same fate, knife under the neck, and motive is just profit and selfish satisfaction of delicious buds. But the public slowly wakes up, the awareness of the evil we do to other animals growing. And there are more and more people, it clearly states, that these mass continuing crimes against innocent animals must cease. That he cattle us as humans, as a society as a whole, completely destroys us. Because of our procedures for other animals, we are increasingly dying of various diseases and are increasingly destroying our common environment, and we do not have others. That's why we need to release the animals to all three levels. We must free the enslaved animals from chains and cages. Imagine you living your whole life in a cage of ladies and gentlemen. And animals, they're the same as people need to move. At the legal level, we must free animals from the slave status they have in our human laws, which they treat as things and resources, property, instead of treating them as natural persons, as consciously sensitive and intelligent creatures. At an addictive level, we humans, as well as our economies and economies, are free of addiction, in exploiting other animal species, but also that many enslaved animals are no longer dependent on us humans, and that they are capable of living on their own, because otherwise none of their emancipation. Noting that none of the true liberation, if we don't return at least part of the territory that we violently took from them in terms of national parks, where they could live uninterruptedly. Ladies and gentlemen, we humans have taken over the planet, and the animals, that is, we have turned it into a hell of an animal and animal pass the horror daily. Unfortunately, like I said, animals can't speak, can't one pig come here for a pay phone and say what a slaughterhouse looks like, what's going on there, no cow, no calf, none of them. And I know that people, they think that these animals, that their lives are worth nothing, that their killing is a perfectly normal thing, as well as eating meat. But here I appeal to them to get involved, through which emotions, the animal goes immediately before bowing and whether they are aware of it, what the price of their pleasure is. In fact, a man doesn't have to eat meat, he can say other things, many people have said we're not going to eat meat, because we love meat, and they don't really understand what kind of suffering it is for these living creatures. When I read this message, it came to me for a moment to smile, and I smile why? Because we as people, when we say I don't know, that someone is an old and powerless person, or that she's a child or that she's a pregnant woman, we feel pity. But when it comes to an animal, which is old, powerless, sick, child pregnant, etc. And then we don't make any difference here. And that's what's essentially, they've lost people's sense of empathy and understanding actually to others. And what's worse, the way we treat animals, the impeccable ones, is how we started to treat people as well. And that's why people kill each other, they think it's okay. And a man, as they say, became a wolf to a man. And it's our job to be better people, to be better to each other. And the way to it is to get better at animals first. As long as people don't have feelings for animals, as long as they're viewed as food, not as living and conscious beings, unfortunately, they'll treat their neighbors in a similar, sad and tragic way. We must look at the interest of the whole community and all living things, not just the selfish interest of our social group, our party, our class, our people or whatever. I think we can make one better world and that this change begins with us and that the decision must be made by each and every one of us separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49831	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. We have one replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49832	Thank you very much, Reverend Pernar. For the end of this debate, you were the last one, I'd like to basically say one more fact, maybe make someone else think a little bit more. It is that in the 21st century society called civilized, highly developed and humane, people cut their necks to animals daily. They break through their skulls with pneumatic guns. It seems mass, every day in tens of thousands of cases. This topic has long been present, many people have tried, in some ways to solve the matter, there is a movement of vegetarianism. Interestingly, there are not many vegetarians in Croatia, but most citizens approve of it. There was a history of great minds, which were vegetarians, say Plato, Aristotle, Einstein, Pythagoras,... Nikola Telsa. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to having a special view of their diet, they had top-notch life results, scientific results, and most importantly all lived for a very long time. They've reached a very deep age. It's an interesting sentence that Leonardo Da Vinci has just said, the day will come when animals will suffer as much as people suffer. That's what he said 500 years ago, and that time still hasn't come, but since everything Leonardo Da Vinci predicted would be invented, so it was invented, probably this social message of his, one day, will give you the right in your debate and all those watching this debate, who have already managed to develop a high awareness of the need for cooperation and co-existence of animals and people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49833	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. My colleague Pernar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49834	Dear colleague Bunjac, that's not an accident. In fact, HRT Croatian television is controlled by people who do not care about the welfare of animals who view animals as things for this reason, people who think about animals in a compassionate way, who treat them as living beings who want to have their own life, not as a resource that is exploited and ultimately slaughtered, simply do not have media space, so they are not allowed to speak on public television. And accordingly, the public shapes their opinions and attitudes based on what the media is saying and if no medium questions the morality of killing animals for eating, no medium shows the suffering of these animals we will never see what a slaughterhouse looks like, we will never see what a slaughter looks like, so the pig's body will never be shown on television, it'll just be a pork chop on TV. And there's a reason why, because if people were watching pigs on TV, that would make them sick, and they'd get sick of it, and they'd figure out where that steak they eat comes from on their plate. But since that truth about meat is not available to them, they don't really realize how difficult that animal's journey was as it is said from farm to plate and what that animal has been through, unfortunately. But that's why it's time for those of us who care about animals to support us in the elections and that simple media space is given to people who advocate against meat nutrition or for those who think differently from most people to get the right to vote in public space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49835	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. We have the final word of the Secretary of State, Mr. Zeljko the Queen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49836	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I am just wanting to thank all clubs and individual parliamentary representatives for supporting this law for really qualityly discussing all the provisions of this law that puts first the responsibility between finance and animal welfare, the responsibility of all of us to give the greatest benefit of our animals in the process of implementing this law. I would just as the debate went to a large part that the units of local self-government are burdened financially in the implementation of this law, I would only remind myself of Article 85 of the final bill, which states that "the public director in supervision determines the infringements of this law and has the right and obligation to charge the fine or that the funds charged to the local self-government units have been paid and used for the purpose of taking care of abandoned and lost animals". You've seen the very provisions that there are also fines of 10 to 20 thousand kunas, indeed if we all work on implementing this law, there will be enough resources, but a prevention that will reduce that we have abandoned dogs on our streets. But not only are the abandoned dogs or cats the subject of this law but also the European regulations and directives and everything this law adopts and, to a large extent, the civilised society in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49837	I thank the Secretary of State for this closing statement. I hereby conclude the debate, and we will vote on this point when the conditions are met. I would like to thank Secretary of State Željko Kraljnik, Assistant Minister Damir Agic and colleague of the Ministry of Agriculture for their explanations and interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49838	We now move on to the Final Proposal of the Animal Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 147. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Veljko Kajtazi, representative Marin Škibola, representative of Stjepan Kovač, representative of Predrag Matić, Advocacy Club of the Living Wall and SNAG, Club of HNS Representatives Liberal Democrats, Club of Representatives GLAS and HSU, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Club of HDZ Representatives and Representatives of Hrvoje Zekanovic. The amendment table was sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture Tugomir Majdak. Well, let's take it in a row. The first amendment is that club of representatives of GLAS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49839	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This amendment is not accepted by the Government and, as an explanation, states that this law prescribes the treatment of animals during their use, however, it excludes certain areas of use of animals which are governed by specific rules such as those relating to hunting and game management. Since dogs and cats are not savages but can represent game in the hunting grounds, the need to treat cats and dogs in the hunting grounds in such a way that they need to be removed from the hunting grounds, and in that case the provisions of this law apply, so that the dogs and cats found in the hunting grounds should be treated as abandoned animals and, if determined, the owner of the dog or cat shall bear the same costs of taking care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49840	Thank you. Do you want to be obvious? Here you go, comrades. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49841	Thank you very much. I demand that this amendment be voted upon. In fact, it's a very common case that abandoned dogs and cats are in hunting grounds. The law on hunting grounds defines it. But I would remind you that the Animal Protection Act also says that it is forbidden for an animal to kill them, inflict pain, suffering, injury and deliberately expose them to fear and disease against the provisions of this law. Similarly, it is prohibited to shoot animals irrespective of the type of firearms or devices except for the purpose of stunning or killing animals in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be voted upon. It would only be a coincidence with the other provisions of the Animal Protection Act, and it is a very common case that dogs and cats are being executed in hunting grounds. It is therefore absolutely unacceptable for such a provision to remain in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49842	You're asking for a vote, I presume?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49844	Yeah. Then please join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Moving to Amendment No. 2. A representative's club of the Living Wall and Power. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49845	This amendment is not accepted by the Government and the reasons are the same as in that explanation, in the previous explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49846	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49847	Thank you very much. And what amendment exactly is this, please, I have different ones?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49848	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49849	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49850	Comrade Bunjac, please be aware of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49851	This one Mrs. Taritash had? Then there's no need to vote, I'm withdrawing the amendment, now we've voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49852	Okay, thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 3. HNS's club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49853	This amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49854	Accepts?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49856	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 4th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49857	This amendment is not accepted by the Government and as an explanation, we state that the law prohibits training animals to fight, organise animal fights other than traditional bull fights or participate in them, visit and advertise them and organise betting and participate in betting. Mrs Majda Burić, in her 2007 book "Protects of National Treasures in the Light of European Rights", cited in the 2007 issue of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage Register and proposed application as a popular folk practice of bull-stealing, which has been cherished in Croatia for centuries as a traditional mere of value and what Jevgenij Pašenko is talking about in his part "Etnogenesis and Mythology of Croats". The traditional bull competition has been mentioned since 1890, and it has been organised for 22 years and there are no serious effects on the health and welfare of the animals. Animal fighting is not regulated by the EU acquis that Croatia has fully taken over in national legislation so that each Member State can adopt national regulations governing the same. As the EU attaches great importance to the cultural heritage of the Member States which retain their competence in the field of culture and since the abovementioned practice of bulls is also interesting in the tourist and cultural sense in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia, as is the case in some other countries of Europe, its retention is also proposed in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49858	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49859	Thank you very much. I would be a little attached to the secretary of state for the last words he said, indeed some other EU countries where the tradition of fighting bulls is, and when we mention them, the fight of bulls is something that is synonym for them no longer fighting bulls, or absolutely, is a ban, and we continue to leave it, absolutely and debate, when there was a debate on the law we discussed. So that the bulls exhibit themselves, to show themselves what they are, there's no one against it, but that we have fights, that animals are sticking on each other, that developing the lowest passion is absolutely unacceptable and we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49860	Thank you. Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so we move on to Amendment number 5 of Marine Skiboli's MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49861	The Government does not accept this amendment by reason of the same as the previous argument, meaning under 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49862	Here's your pal, Squibble.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49863	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. I believe that if you do not accept this amendment as a matter of pure discrimination in a legal act, because you here state that animal mugging is forbidden and that you leave in the law of the bulls. How do bulls differ from other animals? I believe that if this amendment is rejected, it might be possible for someone to question this provision in the Constitutional Court. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49864	Thank you. Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We're moving on to Amendment Six. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49865	The government accepts the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49866	He becomes an integral part of the law. Number seven. It's a "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49867	The government doesn't accept. As a reason, I would like to point out that in the contest for the withdrawal of troops, horses used for work and raised for this purpose, and who are physically adapted to help a person carry out certain difficult tasks, the same criteria must also be applied in the competition for the withdrawal of troops, and horses which must not be forced by heavy means to work beyond their physical capabilities. Animals cannot be used in competitions, can only be used in competitions after issuing the consent of the veterinary inspector and the competition is conducted under the supervision of the veterinary inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49868	Here you go, pal. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49869	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. It's our opinion that there's no need for horse racing that weighs a lot of weight for reasons that these competitions have no purpose other than mere entertainment. So, they have no job purpose, they have no educational purpose, and in any case, horses are exposed to great stress, possible injuries, and they're very serious. And we believe that such competitions upset not only animals, but also many citizens, and for this reason we ask that this amendment be accepted and we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49870	Thank you. Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 8. The GLAS and HSU representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49871	The government does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49872	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49873	So it's about the same amendment as my colleague explained before me. However, this amendment has indeed been tabled for the reason that it has caused citizens to be appalled by the way these activities are happening and therefore I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49874	Then we approach the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 9 of Predrag Matic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49875	The government does not accept this amendment as in the case of the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49876	Comrade Matić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49877	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, Mr. Secretary of State, we are passing a good Animal Protection Act that places us at the very top of European legislation. It's known that animals are our friends. In many situations, we don't care if we're friends at all. However, what is put under the traditional pull of the logs. In Article 5, we have suggested that it be added to prohibit the competition of horses in the withdrawal of troops and indeed points 7, 9, 11, 12, 24 speak of the protection of animals in situations where it causes pain, suffering and all. And I propose for the end that, of course, I will ask for a vote, but I suggest that the organisers of such competitions put it, that mayors, mayors, ministers, MPs, and in the end you mentioned it would be good if the veterinary inspector also participated in such competitions. That would certainly be better and more interesting to the audience than poor horses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49878	But it might be better if we fought like bulls. Nothing, then I'm voting and this amendment that the government doesn't accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're moving on to Amendment 10. The GLAS and HSU representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49879	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49880	It becomes an integral part of the law. Eleven Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49881	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49882	He accepts. It becomes an integral part of the law. The 12th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49883	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49884	And this becomes an amendment to the component of the law. Thirteen HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49885	And this amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49886	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49887	This amendment is accepted by the Government. This amendment extends He accepts. [[Intruder President: Does not accept or accept?]] He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49888	He accepts. Then it becomes an integral part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49889	Can I just add some more? It is important to stress that this amendment is extended in a way that is deleted in the text of the final proposal for the Animal Protection Act in Article 74(1): ‘and 55’, and in Article 89(1), paragraph 4. [[The President's intrusion: Come on, fill it in.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49890	Thank you. Then we'll go to Amendment number 15, Representatives' Club of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49891	The government does not accept this amendment. In accordance with the provisions of this law, units of local self-government have an obligation in the area of a unit of regional, regional self-government, where animal shelter can be established which can be done by one or more units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49892	Apparition on behalf of the club, please welcome fellow Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49893	Thank you very much. I would point out only that you have defined that at least one shelter must be established in the area of one unit of the regional self-government. In this way, there could be a chaos where the lack of co-operation of local self-government may lead to more and unnecessary shelters, which will be especially at that time an economic burden. Logic requires that once already it must be in the area of regional self-government, then regional self-government assumes the obligation if it is not already established, to be the founder. Not getting into the financing of the venture itself. And we demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49894	Then let's join the vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 16. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49895	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49896	It becomes an integral part of the law. Number 17. It's an independent list bridge counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49897	The amendment is not accepted, given that it is business in the area of a particular unit of local self-government, it is obliged to organise and finance the collection of animals in its territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49898	It's obvious. Amendment 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49899	The explanation also says that these gathering jobs would most effectively be organised in the area of the entire regional self-government, including all entities that are interested, which are local self-governments. I think it's a function of the county, to organise, especially in matters of common interest. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49900	We are voting on an amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 18 is also a Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49901	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Local self-government units are obliged to participate in the financing and establishment of shelter work in the area of the regional self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49902	A colleague of Panenić's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49903	Here's me really about this obligation I have to say that we're coming up with the Law on the financing of local self-government. Some additional funds will be transferred to local self-government, but we see, through this law, through other laws, new obligations are imposed. This was just a proposal that goes on even distribution, in line with economic strength, for all who need to be involved. And as we have an initiative on the financing of student transport, as well as this could be, according to the financial force, to determine participation and regional as well as local self-government, I think that would be the most just model. I'm asking for a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49904	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We move on to amendment number 19 of MP Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49905	The amendment is not accepted. Since local self-government units finance the work of shelters and shelter costs established or concluded contracts in the area of the county where they are located. It is understandable that the financing of such shelters is related to the area of units of local self-government and their needs. All other shelters can organize their activities, including the collection of animals, without restrictions, i.e. in a way that is most acceptable to them. In view of the above, we do not consider that the action of the shelter, which are... natural or legal persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These may be concluded by animal care contracts, respecting animal welfare.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49906	Thank you. He's a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49907	I have to admit, I didn't understand from the explanation whether a contract with a shelter in another county could be concluded from one county. By law, I don't think he can. This is a very large material burden for the county, especially small counties which will now have to invest about 5.6 million kuna in shelters. And there's a problem with that 51st dog where he's going with him. And so far in Croatia it has worked about 6 companies that are private companies, they will no longer be able to work profitablely, because they will be... limited only to the space of his county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the county will have to build its own shelters that will not be profitable especially in the context that we have counties that are very large, like the City of Zagreb, which has 700,000 inhabitants and Ličko-senjska which has barely 40,000 inhabitants. So we put them all in the same basket. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49908	Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now moving to Amendment 20. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49909	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49910	Then I hope the next few will be accepted because they're the same, that's 21. GLASS and HSU representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49911	Yes, it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49912	The Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49913	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49914	23 Representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49915	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49916	And 24 Stephen Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49917	And this amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49918	Accepts, yes. Then let's go to Amendment 25. It's an independent list bridge club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49919	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. Costs of care, sterilization and labelling... the protection of abandoned or lost animals in a shelter established by one or more units of local self-government or in the event of the conclusion of a collection contract, i.e. the care of animals with legal or physical persons, shall be financed by units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The implementation of measures and the Animal Protection Act, with the aim of developing responsible dog possession, will also reduce the number of abandoned animals. A communal officer who inspects irregularities in law enforcement shall have the right and obligation to charge fines prescribed by a general act of the representative body of the local self-government units and those assets shall be income units of local self-government and used for the purpose of caring for abandoned and lost animals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49920	The obviousness of fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49921	I mean the same subject as I was saying, but I'm glad you mentioned the communal directors, and it's probably the assumption that all local self-government units have communal directors. I'm telling you that this assumption is a complete mistake, they don't have or will be able to execute you, and you're going to bring back to one legal issue all local self-government or be forced through this law to have communal directors and thus new costs, which will burden those at least. And I'm withdrawing this proposal because it doesn't make sense to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49922	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 26. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49923	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. In the absence of an amendment to Article 5(2) in the section concerning the prohibition of the organisation of the horse's withdrawal competition, it is therefore not necessary to specify an infringement provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49924	An obvious colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49925	Thank you very much. We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49926	Thank you. 27 HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49927	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49928	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Number 28 Advocacy Club of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49929	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Amendment 2 of the Independent Lists of Representatives Clubs referred to in Article 63(3) is not to be accepted, therefore it is not necessary to amend the infringement provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49930	A colleague of Panenić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49931	We have also discussed recently the Water Law for Human Consumption and those sanctions that are not implemented there. I hope also that these will be sanctions that will not be imposed on those who cannot be punished in this way will be really unfair to not only local self-government but also to its inhabitants. I'm withdrawing the proposal because it doesn't make sense to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49932	Thank you. And the last 29. It's a "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49933	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. The amendment to Article 5(2) in the section relating to the prohibition of the organisation of the horse's withdrawal competition is not accepted and therefore no delay in the application of that provision is required.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49934	It's obvious there's a club representative. I can see you're not quite sure what you're supposed to do, so if you want, we can vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49935	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49936	Thank you. That's what we've come to an end, and I thank Secretary of State Tugomir Majdaku. And we are going to vote on the final proposal of the Animal Protection Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 113 votes in favour and 3 abstentions have been passed the Animal Protection Act along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49937	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Entering and Expansion of Foreign and Invasive Foreign Species and Governing them, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 173. The draft law shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Agriculture. The applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation. Here you go, Secretary of State Mr. Mile Horvatt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49938	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. I will take note of your time spent today in the assembly to try to present more expediently the reasons why we propose the Law to prevent and spread foreign and invasive foreign species and to manage them. The draft Law on the prevention and spread of foreign and invasive alien species and their management has been accessed due to the obligations of the EU Regulation No. This appropriation is intended to cover: The implementation of this Regulation imposes new obligations on competent authorities and introduces an obligation of official controls at EU borders to prevent the deliberate introduction of invasive foreign species that cause concerns in the EU. The Regulation obliges the Republic of Croatia to adopt plans for the management of foreign species and to establish a national monitoring system for these species, which is covered and elaborated by this new draft law. In fact, the invasive sides of the species pose one of the main threats to biodiversity, and they can have a significant adverse effect on the health of both the people and the economy. The total number of invasive foreign species in Europe has been constantly increasing in the last 100 years. There are more than 12,000 foreign species in Europe. About 10 to 15% of them are estimated to be invasive and the figure is projected to rise with an increase in global trade, transport, tourism and climate change. The estimated cost of damage and control of invasive species is around 12 billion euros a year at EU level and this is the 2008 data. The actual amount is probably much higher since most European countries have only recently begun to assess the costs caused by invasive species. As a result, in 2013, the Nature Protection Act prescribed restrictions on the introduction of nature, the placing on the market and the cultivation of foreign species and the ban on their release into nature, but after the entry into force of EU Regulation 11/43 of 2014 because of the scale and specificity of the problem of foreign invasive species, it was necessary to isolate the problem listed from the existing Law on the Protection of Nature in a separate law which is in fact this proposal of the law. This law therefore allows for the application of the EU Regulation itself and the relevant implementing regulations of the European Commission in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore it is prescribed, among other things, to issue authorisations for placing on the market, to grow in controlled conditions and to introduce into the nature of foreign species, which has so far been governed by the Nature Protection Act and, according to our assessment, for traders, breeders and citizens, there will be no major change with this new legal solution. An assessment of the risk of alien species invasion is being arranged which is now being developed by the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, which is a change from the current regulations according to which the study of the influence of the foreign species on nature produces an authorised legal person and on the burden of applicants. The adoption of the so-called so-called so-called "Second" is also prescribed. blacklists and this is a list of invasive foreign species that cause concerns in the Republic of Croatia, which will be prescribed by the regulations and related prohibitions of limitations and controls of course. The European Commission has already adopted a list of invasive foreign species that are causing concerns in the EU, which currently have 49 invasive foreign species, and species are causing damage in such a way that it is justified to take measures at Union level. This law provides for the adoption of a black list of invasive foreign species of significance for the Republic of Croatia. This list will include those invasive sides of species that are not so important for the EU level but have identified their significant negative impact and danger to the biodiversity and health of people in the Republic of Croatia. That's why they're forming, which is why it's being established by this law of the institute. Blacklists. A whitelist institute is arranged, a list of foreign species that have been found not to pose an ecological risk in the Republic of Croatia and are not subject to prior dating obligations, authorisation to place such species on the market. The law also regulated a detailed system of management of invasive foreign species in the Republic of Croatia and this by adopting action plans for the control of roads and the simultaneous introduction and spread of invasive foreign species, such as the case of the introduction of a tiger mosquito, which is presumed to have arrived in Europe in the water accumulated in used car tyres from Southeast Asia. It is also the adoption of an implementation plan for the supervision of foreign species. It is also arranged to adopt plans for the management of invasive foreign species that are already widespread, which are already widespread in the Republic of Croatia. It is also arranged to adopt management plans for non-invasive foreign species in the EU or the Republic of Croatia but are also present with us. For the purpose of implementing all of the abovementioned legislation, the competent authorities, their tasks, including the competent supervisory services and their conduct in official border and internal traffic controls shall be prescribed. Finally, the law also prescribes adequate infringement provisions and also means to implement this law and EU regulation No 11/4 of 2014 will be provided by partially redistributing existing funds within the framework of the state budget intended for the nature protection sector and partly by withdrawing EU funds and structural funds, as already foreseen by the operational programme of competitiveness of cohesion. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Ministry of Environment and Energy has signed a grant contract for the project to develop a system of management and control of invasive foreign species of total value of 11 million kuna and, in April this year, the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency is a grant contract for projects to establish a national system for the monitoring of invasive foreign species of the total value of 15 million kuna. The bill also passed the mandatory notification procedure by the EU. And what I would now say as an explanation, so an example of invasive foreign species that cause concerns in the Union present in the Republic of Croatia, I will say a few examples, these are the Barnutrium in the Danube Basin area and also in Istria, present by digging holes in the coast causing collapse and erosion, and Bara Nutrius causes damage to agricultural cultures by feeding on sugar tail and corn. In Italy from '95. By 2000 some 220 thousand units of bar nutrients were excreted from nature. The activity cost Italy 2.5m euros while at the same time the damage on the river shores, embankments, agricultural cultures amounted to around 11m euros. Similar damage is also caused by a Brazilian rat spread along the Sava, Kupa, Mura and Drava rivers. Then we have a diversified crocination is invasive water plants, recently recorded in Delta Neretva, has a negative impact on biodiversity and because of the high water surface coverage of this plant, there are significant economic damages in fishing, in deforestation and irrigation systems, making it difficult to sail and transport and operate hydropower plants. It is also one of the 100 worst invasive species that is registered in the EU only in the Republic of Croatia, namely Mljet, Pelješac and the surrounding islands, and is of paramount importance to prevent its spread. So these are just some of the problems caused by invasive species, which affect the entire EU and especially the Republic of Croatia, so it is important, in our opinion, to provide for a specific legislative framework for the control of invasive foreign species at the level of each individual Member State and, in particular, for the Republic of Croatia to regulate this matter by such a single legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49939	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Milly Horvat, for this further explanation of the law. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49940	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is a brief review on behalf of the HDZ Club on the Law on the Prevention and Expansion of Foreign and Invasive Foreign Species and Management. It is one of a series of laws that aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. At present, the issue of foreign species from the point of view of their invasive nature is partly governed by the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Nature by the issue of foreign species and by the Act on the Protection of Nature in the Private Law on the Prevention of Entering and Expansion of Foreign Species and Invasive Foreign Species and Governance thereof, more fully addressing the problems of foreign species and the specific area of preventing the introduction and spread and management of foreign species including invasive species. This law regulates the legal framework relating to the placing on the market of breeding under controlled conditions and the introduction of foreign species into nature. The issue of assessing the risk of foreign species invasion is identified by foreign species causing concerns in the Republic of Croatia and related restrictions and controls. A detailed system of management of invasive and foreign species in the Republic of Croatia is also defined. The competent authorities and their tasks, including the competent inspection bodies, shall be established a legal framework for effective inter-resorship cooperation and shall prescribe appropriate infringement provisions. The adoption of this law will allow for the implementation of the provisions of EU Regulation No 1143/14 and several EU and European Parliament Council Directives. The paper in this law is a burden on the development of a foreign-type impact study on nature to be transferred from the applicant to the professional body or Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, thus achieving greater transparency and objectivity of the results of the foreign-type invasion risk assessment, as so far the provisions for which the study of the influence of the foreign species on nature can only be made by the authorising officers and can be used only in the context of the related administrative case. This will lead to rationalisation and the results of a once-made assessment of the risk of invasiveness of the foreign species will also apply to all other identical administrative procedures. The Regulation will prescribe a white species of foreign species which do not pose an ecological risk in the Republic of Croatia and will not require authorisation for placing on the market and breeding under controlled conditions and introduction into nature. If the results of the assessment of the risk of invasion of the foreign species show a significant negative impact, the species will be included in the list of invasive species that cause concern in the Republic of Croatia, etc. Blacklist. For species found on the blacklist, the law prescribes a restriction on their intentional entry into the Republic of Croatia, placing on the market, exchange, holding, breeding and introduction into nature except for the purpose of research and production of medical products, while commercial stocks of such species will have to be resolved within 2 years of their inclusion in the blacklist. The treatment of foreign species is currently governed by the Nature Protection Act, this law cannot, outside its power, lay down provisions of the Nature Protection Act, it is necessary to adopt a law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act at the same time, and both laws should be implemented at the same time. The law on the prevention and spread of foreign species and invasive foreign species and their management in a more complete and quality manner legally determines the problems covered by this law and the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49941	I would like to thank my colleague Damir Felak for this debate. We move on to individual debates, respected colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49942	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Assistant Minister. Here's one regret first that this very important law we're discussing so late, it would be good if we had a little more time because we need comments, we need to discuss it a little bit better, and in this late hour, I think that, if this suggestion can be appreciated, it would be good for the future. We've actually heard one form here that's not bad. It means aligning with EU directives, but here it is, I don't know at this late hour whether anyone is looking at it, I'm interested, in particular, in the final word of the Secretary of State or the Assistant Minister. We had a problem like... They're invasive species. No one's talking about them anymore today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did they release millions that were spent in preventing the spread of these invasive species, did it bear fruit, or did these plants, and so the algae pulled themselves back? Furthermore, I would take advantage of the opportunity here and mention the problem of some invasive species, as the promoter mentioned, e.g. The problem of pajasen, one plant that I see also spreads throughout Zagreb, Dalmatia, in the coast is extremely, extremely present and I think that some education should be in schools, in public institutions that care about protected natural areas, that even people who are involved in nature protection know even one plant. We have an ambrosia problem, amorphous problem. Unfortunately, all the effort that has been made so far to prevent, spread these plants has not yielded fruit. Also here education was necessary although bar turtles do not have our... from which the autochton is here, means a bar turtle, than that tropical turtle we have more and more in the waterways all over our homeland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you mentioned the mongoose, the mongoose is also an animal that's not autochton here and there's got to be some way to get that animal out of the environment. In the end, I would say that I am sorry that when we already have this law, that no blacklist was created, the Croatian Blacklist, but only there is this European list that we accept as such. And here I want to stimulate it this way, encourage the promoter, that this Croatian blacklist be brought in as soon as possible. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49943	I thank my colleague Zekanovic for this debate. Is it possible the Proposer would like to give the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49944	So, I thank everyone who spoke on behalf of the club and my colleague Zekanovic for the individual debate. So this is the first reading, until the second reading, we'll probably, as we've told you, appreciate your suggestions, so please meet at that interval between the two readings in the ministry to say your experiences, your seeing these things to improve this text. Regarding the blacklists, I said here that this law would provide for the adoption of the so-called so-called law. black lists of invasive foreign species which are relevant to the Republic of Croatia. So these are invasions of species that are not so significant at EU level, but are significant for the Republic of Croatia. And they're exactly going to be the contents of those blacklists. So we opened the space by creating the institute, and then by special acts we'll arrange the contents of both the white sheets and the blacklists. As far as the law itself and your previous suggestions are concerned, therefore, this law provides for the possibility of reaching certain European means to finance precisely the fight against these invasive species that you have said. Because obviously, from a domestic national portfolio, we're not in a position right now... so much resources to combat the aggression of these invasive species in a quality way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49945	I thank the Secretary of State for this closing statement. This concludes the debate. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49946	Proposal for a law on the prevention and spread of foreign and invasive foreign species and their management. First reading P.Z.E. No. 173, the motion for an act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a law on the prevention and spread of and management of foreign and invasive species is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimously 123 votes to reach the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49947	We move to the following agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E., No.171 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. The applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation. Here you go. Secretary of State Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49948	I would like to thank my distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The amendments to the Nature Protection Act, which applied from 6 July 2013, have been joined mainly for 3 reasons. We put them in three wholes. The first and most significant reason for amending this law concerns the need for further harmonisation with the provisions of the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. Given that the Republic of Croatia, currently in the process of infringement of law, launched by the European Commission due to incomplete transfer. For both Directives, the Republic of Croatia received a reasoned opinion in 2017, which means that we are in a pre-trial phase before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. We therefore believe that the adoption of this law is extremely important and that, if it is adopted, it will affect the day-to-day steps of the European Commission, in the sense that we can expect that there will be no real initiation of the complaint. Among the amendments and additions associated with additional harmonisations to the EU acquis, it would above all highlight several institutes that we have arranged for these new amendments and additions. This is a different orderly procedure for assessing the acceptability of strategies, plans and programmes for the ecological network, which is prescribed by the draft bill, so that the previous evaluation process and the main evaluation procedure are clearly separated, which has not been the case so far. In relation to the assessment of the acceptability of spatial plans, which is subject to a strategic assessment or assessment of the need for strategic assessment, according to the amendments to the Nature Protection Act, and therefore this way of assessing spatial plans has become obsolete, and it should be deleted. That is the European Commission's assessment. As regards the assessment of the acceptability of plans, such as forest economic plans, hunting economic bases, fishing grounds, the procedure is now simpler. According to many years of experience, these plans generally do not have a significant negative impact on the objectives and conservation of the ecological network, and a solution to acceptability for the ecological network can be issued at the stage of the previous evaluation and this process is now under this new legal solution only 30 days. Unlike when the procedure was twice the length of the previous legal solution. On the other hand, this proposal for a law has improved the provisions on the management of the area of ecological measures, as well as the competence for the management of the day and the legal person who manages the forests, in accordance with the Law on Forests. This makes it possible for forest economic bases, which have been bitten and plans to manage the ecological network, to not be subject to the acceptability assessment process at all. Different process of managing environmental network areas, nature 2000 with clear competences of public institutions, ministries, and Croatian forests, i.e. the forestry sector. This legislative solution will also allow for a better absorption of the resources foreseen by the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion 2014-2020, specifically designed for the development of a complete framework for the management of the Natura ecological network, including the development of management plans, for which some 300 million kunas of grants have been provided. In this regard, such a legal solution allows for the withdrawal of eu funds and the forestry sector for the production of forest-economic plans. The second reason for amending the law lies in the fact that certain deficiencies that need to be corrected or recognised as new mechanisms that can improve the system of nature protection, and among the most significant ones, are the need to prescribe conditions for granting authorisations to legal persons to perform wild animal recovery operations, as well as the conditions for granting authorisation to perform the tasks of genetic banks, which, in the light of the nomotechnical rules, cannot be prescribed by the rules as so far, must be prescribed only by law, and the powers must have the character of the administrative act. Elimination of problems in the field related to authorisations for the collection or collection of wild game species for processing or further sale, in particular in relation to the collection of mercy. This proposal requires that any natural or legal person who collects from the nature of the wild must be authorised, and the exception is only natural persons who are employees of a legal person and are bound by a contractual relationship. Amendment to the concession authorisation provisions which have been amended in a way that allows public institutions to grant concession approval for the use of speleological facilities. In view of the fact that the award procedure for these purposes has been over-requested and has never been implemented in practice in spite of the existence of interest. For the purpose of a fairer distribution of funds between national parks and nature parks, a new Article 204.b has been added that public institutions managing national parks and nature parks are obliged to pay in the state budget 3% of the revenues obtained from each ticket and vignette sold as well as part of the surplus revenue from the previous financial year of a maximum of 10% for which the purpose is not pre-determined. These funds, which are paid in the state budget, will be used to finance priority activities of public institutions operating national parks, nature parks, which are necessary for the purpose of protecting and preserving areas managed or for the purpose of improving public institutions' business activities, as well as the settlement of expenditure on joint functions to support national parks and nature parks in legal affairs, public procurement, promotion, marketing, preparation and implementation of projects and education and development of the nature protection information system. The proposal for the allocation of funds and the proposal for the allocation of funds within a particular activity prepares a commission established by the Minister while the way and dynamics of the payment of funds to the state budget, the way in which the percentage of the work of the excess revenue achieved in the current year for which the purpose has not been established, and which public institutions for the management of national parks and parks of nature are required to pay in the national budget at the annual level, the way in which the allocation of funds for the implementation of the activities, the composition and the way in which the Commission and the way in which the public is informed, and other issues related to that matter, will be settled by the Government. The third also very important reason for the amendment of this law stems from the fact that at the same time in the procedure and the proposal for a Law on the prevention of the introduction and spread of foreign and invasive species which we discussed in the previous point will solve the problem of foreign species as a whole. In this respect, the provisions on the introduction into nature, cultivation and placing on the market of foreign species are deleted as they cover the new amendments to the law. It is extremely important to ensure the adoption and entry into force of both of these laws at the same time in order to avoid the possible overlap of legal provisions, on the other hand, the absence of a legal framework governing the mentioned matter. In order to implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget, and a consultation with the public concerned has been carried out in the draft draft law through the consultation portal between 28 April and 31 May 2017. The 274 comments to which it was responsible have been received. The relevant comments and proposals to the public have been properly incorporated in the proposal for this law and 25% of the objections have been accepted, and a detailed explanation of the reasons why they have not been accepted has been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49949	I thank Secretary of State Milly Horvat for this explanation. We have one replica of the distinguished colleague Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49950	Dear Secretary of State. You mentioned something that I have been pointing out all the time as a kind of not a problem but rather some indeterminateness, which is related to the obligation to make an environmental impact study, i.e. only an accelerated procedure, i.e. seeking opinions and ministries and counties. So sometimes the ministry gives the opinion that it doesn't need a county, that it needs to be made in, for example, building space-planned documentation. And here I was raised for reasons because when we talk about nature conservation of environmental impact studies, I have to mention environmental concerns, and what is currently on the ground, and for which no one has ever done an environmental impact study, it is polluting it, and it continues to carry out activities without water permits with direct release of substances both in water and in the environment, for example the port for different burdens in Bakru, for which I have raised myself and such examples in Croatia. So when we take care of the environment, when we take care of environmental protection, when we prescribe environmental impact studies, and also ask for opinions about such a thing, we should also take care of what is currently on the ground, make a special commitment to review the situation because I am sure, and I know personally that a whole series of cities and municipalities have warned about such problems. We have the Municipality of Viskovo resuscitation of Visevac dump, a new dump here is until recently Minister Dobrović, who is very well aware of all the problems. And finally this example of my port of scattered cargo in Bakr that works without any devastation, fecal sewerage that directly pours into the sea where there is a direct attack on the environment and on human health and nothing has ever taken place on that matter. And I used this situation to warn you again about that problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49951	I thank my colleague Klaric for this replica. Answer? No, I don't. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49952	Thank you, Your Honor, your suggestions are probably the subject of our debate, but this is an environmental impact assessment, so all elements of the impact assessment. Well, then I wouldn't be mixing it with this problem right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49953	Thank you for your response to Secretary of State Milly Horvat. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49954	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. Speaking of the Nature Protection Act, the observation made by Mr Klaric, which refers to an environmental impact study, is defined by the Environmental Protection Act but is also linked to the Nature Protection Act at the time when it determines whether or not an environmental impact study should be done for a particular procedure and if the project is in the environmental network, then a study should be carried out anyway on the assessment of the acceptability of the procedure on the ecological network. But I'd go back to what the subject of the law is, so first of all, I'd say that it's an extremely big amendment and an addition to the law, and I think it's 116 articles and I think the original law has about 250 articles. The practice is somehow, although it is not a norm in making certain amendments and supplementing the law when the amendment includes more than 35% of the articles to go into the new law, which does not mean that this should go here but I would like to say that it is a really big change that has been defined as the State Secretary himself said for three reasons and I would add a fourth and I'll do that a little later. So, the first fact is that we have been in debt before and even when we passed the law, they were already in force of both European Council and Parliament directives that prescribe the habitats of wild flora and fauna on the one hand and the Wildbird Conservation Directive. Since one of them was from '92, the other from 2009, and our original law was passed in 2013 maybe we should have done and changed it by then in order not to receive a letter of formal notice from the Commission concerning the obligation to comply with our law with these two directives. So it's either way, it's that first change. Second, the first reason I want to say it. This is the second reason why we had discussed the Law on the Prevention of Entering and Expansion of Foreign and Invasive Foreign Species and Governing them, so in my view it was another reason. The third reason Mr. Secretary of State said so himself is the fact that the law has been implemented over the past four years, it has been found that there are certain ambiguities in the very expression of certain legal provisions, articles, and then in this way there has been this clarification which the Secretary of State spoke very specifically. And I would say that the 4th reason and obligation, the government's obligation to propose to the Parliament, based on a decision to reduce the number of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons, were the number of institutions, agencies, funds, institutes, etc., in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the law also made the move that the Institute for the Protection of Nature and the Environment Agency has brought together a joint Croatian Environment and Nature Protection Agency. Not only is it good, that it is good that it is in one place, we have witnessed that until before 2010, 2011 this problem was led into two separate ministries, one, the protection of nature was in the Ministry of Culture and environmental protection was in the Ministry at the time of construction, spatial planning and environmental protection. And in my opinion, it is good that it is connected to an agency that now in one place cares about and protects the environment and protects nature, doing uniform later reports on the state of nature and the state of the environment in Croatia. So it's going to be one-of-a-kind reports when they form in that sense. As the Secretary of State has also said, the basic procedure which speaks of the procedure when certain procedures or programmes, plans and strategies are taking place in the area of the ecological network, the previous assessment of the acceptability of environmental network procedures, should clearly be carried out in the light of the content of the previous evaluation, the main assessment shall be made in such a way that as a prerequisite for the assessment of the acceptability of the environmental network procedure and, if clearly, an adverse solution can be submitted by the applicant for the determination of the prevailing public interest, with the definition of compensatory conditions, and this is a procedure which is prescribed and which is quite similar to that of a project where an operation or strategy is being carried out when it comes to environmental protection. Therefore, this is one, almost one empty procedure, which may have to be further defined by the second reading, the relationship when the procedure is conducted by the administrative department of the regional self-government unit or the county when the ministry does so, the content of the documentation when applications are submitted so that it would be good for me to define the procedure which is done more clearly in the course of determining the project's acceptability to the ecological network. In this sense, in the public debate itself, there have been several questions on the subject and in the answers given by the ministry through the duration of the public debate, it is suggested that the ministry clearly lights up when the county is doing so, when the ministry does so, but it seems to me that there is a better definition of the conditions not only for who it is, but also for which projects. There were questions whether counties were working, when it was simply county administrative departments, when it was talking about strategies, studies, and different programmes, regardless of what was in the law, in this defined, to do so when these strategies, these programmes refer to the local or regional level. I must say that I also commend the fact that, in these amendments to the law, the process of determining acceptability for the ecological network is downgraded to the level of administrative departments of the county when these projects are in the jurisdiction of the local level, it is a good thing that in such a way the decentralisation is being carried out and that certain actions are being brought down from the ministry to the administrative bodies of the county even though it was in the public debate itself, it seems to me that the Green Action has asked me whether the regional, regional self-government will be able to, capacitated, do what the ministry has done so far, I have no doubt that at the county level, it will be possible to realise this. When we talk about the ecological network, I must say that the average area is based on Natura 2000 at EU level. It seems to me, about 25% of the area, in us it's 37% when we talk about land, 16% when we talk about the sea, what the ecological belt means, so protected fishing belt, and when we talk about the territorial sea. Is it much or not, it is good for me that a large part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is located within the Natura 2000 ecological network, but because of that and because of the fact that it is a large space that is in a certain way protected within the ecological network that then a procedure allowing procedures to be conducted in the area of the ecological network, be faster, be simpler, be what Mr. Klaric said, that there is no confusion when it is done, when it is not done, that there is no conflict with the fact that we have to in the area where we work and study the assessment of acceptability, in the area where environmental impact studies are done, that there is no part of what we do, until all of this has been established for a long time, and then it stops and slows down the realisation of certain projects more than we know that prior to that there is a management strategy, etc., etc. Speaking of nature protection, then it would be good for the ministry to implement this law in the sense that management plans are being carried out through the space of the ecological network that they normally bring... to be organised at the level of units of regional or regional self-government, in a certain way as soon as possible to come to the Assembly with spatial plans of the area of specific features which are still missing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear to us that, I think there are three more nature parks in Croatia that have not developed this spatial plan and it seems to me that the Krka National Park is also in the design of a spatial plan of the area of special features. It is impossible to create a management plan as a basis for a document of a public institution that manages a national park and other protected areas unless we have brought this basic document by the Croatian Parliament, so that it would be good for the ministry, here in this sense, to take action together with the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and these plans that are still missing here in the Croatian Parliament, to bring everything together. I commend and support these amendments and the amendments to the law, they are welcome, we must adopt them as soon as possible, what the secretary of state just said, along with that law that we just passed, in that sense we at the HDZ Club support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49955	I would like to thank my colleague, Branko Bacic, for this debate. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the respected Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49956	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, State Secretary and Assistant Minister, I welcome you all. The law on nature protection in the Republic of Croatia certainly has great importance and weight, since we really have something to protect, so we are all responsible for this great treasure. We heard here, in the introduction that the amendment of this law that is quite abundant is brought first, because of two pilots, so compliance with the directives, so it's about natural habitats, wild fauna and flora and the Wild bird conservation directive. Also, since the Nature Protection Act has been functioning for four years now, shortcomings have been observed and it has been said that the proposal for these amendments seeks to remove these shortcomings, I will go through them because I think it is worth hearing. Therefore, it concerns, for example, the process of drawing up and adopting a report on the state of the nature which has been improved by this proposal, and then here the already discussed discrepancies of competent authorities at the state and county level that carry out the adoption procedure on the ecological network in relation to the competences for the implementation of the environmental impact assessment procedure and the strategic assessment in accordance with the second law, i.e. Environmental protection law. Therefore, it is clear that this needs to be better coordinated, then there is a vague legal basis so far for the adoption of environmental network management plans, matters of jurisdiction, we believe that this proposal has been better resolved, then incomplete provisions relating to the approval of collection, taking from nature for the purpose of processing, selling, etc. protected wild species, we heard something about it. Inaccurate provisions empowering legal persons to carry out the operations of live animals recovery facilities belonging to a strictly protected species, then the issue of business of agents' banks, then something that has been badly arranged so far, which is a matter of speleological objects, so caves, caves that Croatia is extremely rich as one karst country. So this is where the question of giving concessions and concessional visitation approvals is addressed which can also complete our tourist offer. Then we also have incomplete provisions so far on the content of the acts' proposals to declare a protected area, therefore higher and higher geodetic bases, as well as when the protected area is located in two or more units of regional self-government. We also have a better defined list of prohibited actions in protected areas and then one improvement, which is to address the non-compliance of the provisions of the laws with the provisions of this Nature Protection Act with the provisions of the specific regulations in the area of spatial planning and construction relating to the issue of works for construction, so the participation of competent authorities in the administrative area of nature protection in the procedures of issuing therefore, these works for the construction and designation of competences. We have an example of Plitvice National Park, where building permits have been issued for years without the knowledge of the public institution, which is quite unusual, so we expect this issue to be better resolved now. We also have so far the lack of a legal basis for the adoption of a funding programme for the ecological network, which is why it will be easier to achieve the means for, so the plan must be defined and the funds can be found. Then there is no legal basis in the law establishing mechanisms that will allow a part of the funds from those public institutions that do better operate part of the surplus funds, help those who are worse standing and where more investment is needed, although I know there are reluctant opinions that this could cause perhaps unfair spending of money, I believe that such a mechanism is well viewed from the national level because we need to know that it is not the business goal of public institutions, therefore, protected areas to gain profits rather than to ensure first-class protection of nature, the protection of this phenomenon that we obviously know in two places in Croatia very desirable to see, so we have problems with excessive visitation, so Plitvice and Krka. Finally, this law or amendments bring better defined infringements, or the possibility to resolve, so far the inability to punish natural persons, which is also a big problem because you find a man in a really unauthorized activity and you can't do anything so that, I believe, now that the legislators have solved this problem that simply individuals will not feel untouchable in such actions. And here, of course, that's the course of the amendments to the law to support it, I'm going to finally just look back at the question... The agency, here Mr. Bačić spoke earlier about it, so the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, I have spoken to many experts in the area and it is not really the most difficult merger of agencies because one is a news agency, so the former Environmental Protection Agency, and the other is the one concerning the protection programme in protected areas, which is quite different, and I actually think that there has been an unnatural association between these two associations, it is a bit of force, not associations, organisations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here it is, I wouldn't be long, I think a law like this would deserve a better time to discuss it, I say hello. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49957	I thank my colleague Dobrovic. We have one replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49958	Dear fellow Dobrović, here I would like to ask one of your comments, and you yourself note that the width of the topic that could be discussed is certainly very large but here, just to get your one opinion on today's consideration. We had in the county assembly reports of investments that were in different activities and what actually gave me that and I gave a comment, a little startled that in Vukovar-Srijem County in 2016 only a recovery was done in a wild dump and that was about 45 thousand kuna invested, so I expressed my infidelity that either in our county there was such a great condition that there was no wild dump or simply nowhere I could provide the means to make a recovery. Here I am in my community when I was chief I have been consummating a contract with the Environmental Protection Fund because we have rescheduled the two remaining dumps, but I am also aware on all sides that wild dumps are emerging and this progress that we want to direct people to put garbage in containers in certain recycling yards must be producing and creating new dumps, which is an old habit that seems difficult to go away. I don't know your point of view of how to access this solution to get these dumps that we see in the end getting rid of. Whether such laws or others will provide tools to remove them because local self-government units certainly cannot provide them themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49959	I thank my colleague Panenic. The answer of my colleague Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49960	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Panenic, I do not know about these specific figures regarding Vukovar-Srijem County. Okay, this Nature Protection Act is about protected areas, so the disposal of the dump is about. similar but not specifically in protected areas. It is these mechanisms that this law also has a word for solidarity that enables that maybe extra funds or available potential be allocated to the poorer counties, yes and those because certainly every county in the Republic of Croatia has valuable facilities to offer visitors and finally to our local people because if we see more, we will get to know it better, and then, of course, our guests will come and help us in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49961	I thank my colleague Dobrovic for his reply. The next debate is individual respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49962	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Assistant Minister. As already said here is something in this bill corrected, something is not, the law is in any case better than it was. He would commend his associates, namely predecessors and Mr. Bačić and Mr. Dobrovic, to the point. The law is very extensive 224 pages together with these comments and this speaks of the importance of this law. Someone mentioned agencies, a merger, yes, I'm for joining the agency, but I agree with Mr. Dobrovic that these two agencies are not complementary that it's difficult to connect them. I, who have worked in the system of nature protection, have to comment, is difficult to understand in the field what the ministry is doing, what the agency is doing. At that time, it was the Institute for Nature Protection. Here's my one suggestion, why don't these agencies just join the ministry? These are mostly professional services that could be attached in some way to the ministry, it could become some kind of key, and it was never clear to me. So let's get that one agency... two more just install into the ministry itself. The reasons for this are clear, and the directives that were to be adapted to the Invasive Species Act that we had just discussed. I'll try to mention a few specific things that haven't been mentioned yet. It is about protected natural areas, i.e. the revision of the boundaries of protected natural areas. I will say one concrete example, the Iron-Camenar in Sibenik was declared a significant landscape on 22 April 1974, a fundamental phenomenon of pine forest, aleppo pine. Today in that area that once was a pine forest lives somewhere three thousand people, there are no skyscrapers, or a fundamental phenomenon. So we have an absurd situation that someone is protecting something that is concrete today, asphalt or whatever. The colleagues mentioned professional bases, professional bases are the basis and this law should in some way force public institutions or those who finance a public institution, whoever these professional bases are to be brought in a short time. Without professional backgrounds for all 400 and how many protected natural areas we can't talk about nature protection, we don't know what we're protecting. We're protecting something, and we don't know what we're protecting, so here's an example of this protected natural area from just before. We also have nine categories of protected natural areas, I think there should be some reduction too. So we have both a regional park and a significant landscape and mentions the parks of architecture, and I think that from this lower category we could put ourselves in two categories eventually, it's not necessarily this many, but maybe it's for one conversation with the people of the Ministry until the second reading. Then the rules on internal order, this law does not define everything and the security services and inspections of nature protection, must have another document under which they will act. The rules on internal order generally do not exist, rarely where they exist, and this is one document that must also exist and should also be forced in some way by public institutions that manage protected natural areas to produce them. He'd say one shocking thing here, not a single procedure that has been initiated, or a guard's service and an inspection has taken place, not one. I guarantee it's not happening. Then... we have a question why there are even guard services, why there are hundreds of already guardians of nature, dozens of environmental inspectors when they simply are unable to make their accusing proposals for example. Do they come to power? That's one question that's a lot of me to worry about. Then the announcement of new natural areas goes very, very slowly or I don't know if it has been for the past ten years to go to a new declaration. I'd be a little encouraged here, I'd be a little stimulating the county, I'd also stimulate the local community to see what it is, which is what could be proposed for a new declaration. One of the biggest problems is always funding. The legislator passed the law, public institutions were established, but we have poor counties, we have a situation that sometimes, that was the case with which the county of Bjelovarsko-Belogorski where I don't know for 15 years was just the director, just the director of a public institution and no one else because there's simply no money, one jeep, one director, and that's that. If that's the point, then it's no good. This is where the speleological objects are mentioned. I welcome the decision that concessions at the speleological facilities are given today at local level, i.e. that the county public institutions give these concessions, the procedure will definitely be faster. Although I don't know who's going to re-evaluate some kind of impact or those speleological objects. Then, a very important thing is overlapping power. If we have a aquatic good, if we have a maritime good and if we have a protected natural area is always the protection of nature in the last place and that's something that, I don't know if it can be defined by this law but it needs to be sat down and with the meaning of people from those resistors and that it's defined because nature protection is always meant in the last place. Furthermore, I have to mention here a senseless correspondence between public institutions and county departments for environmental protection. Sometimes the ministry decides by this law who, not both institutions and both legal entities will have to do the same thing, do only one if there are two. Concessions are one income for both the state and public institutions and for regional, local self-government. But that is also the problem because the concession process is going very slowly. If I want to get to the concession or to the concession itself, you need to start at the 1st month to come, catch the 8th month if you're a little late in the concession you won't get that season. And lastly, I would refer to what my colleague Dobrovic said and the proposer also mentioned, this bill provides for 3% of the revenue from national park tickets, above all, to go to the state budget. I must say, since I come from Sibenik-Knin County which has two national parks, one of those two national parks is Krka National Park which is extremely well, I will say earning, it's hundreds of millions of kuna from tickets. And now we're getting into a situation where that money is going to go back to part of it, and later on, it's probably a lot more back to the state budget. This, national park is a national park but this Krka National Park is also a Sibenik National Park. I'm going to make a little comparison, it's like tomorrow we're going to declare the national good wall of Dubrovnik so that hundreds of millions of kunas that the Dubrovnikers are making there tomorrow we all share together. I wouldn't mind that. That makes sense to everyone but those who live in that space. I live in the area of Sibenik-Knin County and I must say, it is primarily a Sibenik-National Park and that money must remain the local community to the greatest extent, i.e. if there is no Krka there is no Sibenik, that there is no Sibenik there would be no Krka as it is today. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49963	I thank my colleague Zekanovic for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49964	Thank you. Dear colleague Zekanovic, I would agree with you precisely in the claim that categorization of protected areas probably suits the profession. They can discuss it, but when we have it on the ground, people simply don't understand it, and there's a misunderstanding, actually a degree of protection, and then somewhere there's a smaller degree and a higher level, and they're not really sure if they need it or what the restriction is, which they can't, which they can't. And often we have a case right now and there's a protected area with me in the area of my community. Honestly, I'm not exactly sure what exactly is meant by that protection either. I know it's protected here, but we should go a little deeper and understanding because we can see that agricultural activity is all happening. The profession is present there, and it helps us with some projects, but it's generally unclear for people. In the end, we all know of certain parks that we are visiting, which are also recognizable but all of those less protected areas actually remain in one domain where it is often being disrupted, perhaps from misunderstanding and I would really support this initiative of yours to bring it down and to explain it to people, and the waist can always find its own that we do not have any additional elements and value it in its analysis, but in that communication, in what the law requires that we have a simplified version. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49965	I thank my colleague Panenic. My colleague Zekanovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49966	There are 9 categories of protected natural areas, 3 are in the authority of the state, a strict reservation directly, then we have a nature park and a national park which are independent public institutions, we have... And county, that's what I'm talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the problem. The article of the law that speaks of these localities, says this way that in these sites, action is prohibited that violates the reason for the declaration of these areas, that area protected, something like that. In other words, if the phenomenon of Aleppo pine and raid is about some agricultural land, there should be nothing but planting pines there today, and someone should deprive it, it is now a very big problem. So let's go if you've declared something protected we've got to damage the people in that area, so he's no longer in the business of agriculture. Or we can change that article of the law, allow it to continue to deal with agriculture, even though this fundamental phenomenon, for example, is disrupted. In that case, the Aleppo pine or some other forest or whatever. It's complex and it's necessary here, so I'm for reviewing the categorization, and that's exactly why it's actually laughing, which is not allowed in some natural area, or category.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49967	I thank my colleague Zekanovic for his reply. We have the final word of Secretary of State Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49968	I thank all the MPs who have commented on these amendments to the law, I see that there is a great interest in this issue and I see that you have largely accepted these changes as a good solution. Of course, this is the first reading, and we've written your comments, and in the second reading, we're going to try to finish the text, just briefly to say a few things so there's no confusion, we've calculated, the changes are abundant by the number of articles, but it's still below 46%, so we haven't exceeded that legal obligation that, although I agree with Mr. Baci, that maybe we should have done a new text. So, I'm just going to say a few data, just so we know about the previous assessment, that during 2016 the administrative authorities of the county carried out about 900 and the ministry 499 previous evaluation procedures and during that period of 8 and a half years the implementation of the main eligibility assessment for the ecological network was requested for 377 procedures. It was generally seen that 7% of the procedures conducted in the main evaluation meant that most procedures of 93% ended in the phase of the previous evaluation. In the implementation procedures of the main evaluation of 8 and a half years, the ministry refused only 3 procedures for the construction of Rab airport, Ombla hydropower plant and the Gradus field of exploitation. And it makes up all 0.8% of the total items that have been received. As for Mr Zekanovic, the agencies are otherwise professional and independent bodies in their structure and they cannot then be part of the ministry because they would then lose, therefore, their logic of functioning. I will not refer much to the internal order rule, so the rules on protection and preservation are mandatory and under this law other categories of protected areas will be adopted by the representative body and the competent local and regional self-government can decide on measures to protect and preserve these areas and whether this decision will be taken or not, it remains in the main jurisdiction and gives public authority and that its founder is usually a county and city. So that's the thing we've predicted in these amendments to the law and what's of course most interesting when it comes to money, it's always the most powerful thing, so of 19 national parks and nature parks, everyone is, in part or entirely, financed by the state budget, so from taxpayers' funds. Only Plitvice Lakes, Krka and Brijuni are fully funded on their own. And of course, because they have such a position, they have such attractiveness and we find it to be a product of some positional rent, unlike some parks that do not have such an attractive positional rent and cannot live off their own funding. So, on some principle of solidarity, if these national parks, because of their positional rent and natural attractions, make one hundred million kunas of revenue annually, and out of 100 million kunas, they don't distribute everything that year, but leave something aside, then we think it's normal for 3% and 10% of such revenues to be set aside on a special account of the ministry, and then according to the terms and programmes of the Ministry, according to the government's decision, the programmes and projects in other national parks are financed to raise some level and those other national parks. It seems to us that this is, by some principle, I repeat again, solidarity is quite a logical thing, and otherwise you say that money should remain local to the community, according to the government's decision of 6 and a half percent, the municipalities within your national park receive more funds than this amount of 3% that will have to be allocated necessarily at any price of the ticket. So we have a list there, I think it's as much as 100% the larger funds that municipalities that are gravitating to your national park get on that basis by 6 and a half percent of their income. I thank you once again for understanding these changes of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49969	I thank Secretary of State Milly Horvat for this final word. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. This ends with all the agenda points scheduled for today. Tomorrow we will continue at 9:30 in the morning with the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants. Good night, and thank you very much. Session adjourned at 23.15.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-21-0.u49970	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 171. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that 122 votes were unanimously delivered to the conclusion that the parliamentary working bodies had proposed.
