ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25275	Good day to you. We're starting today's session. I see your hands in the air for the first break. Who answered first? He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25276	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I have been looking for a break of 10 minutes to discuss the problems of the Meiso shoe factory in Gorican, which has been in a difficult situation for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25277	Thank you. A colleague of Lovrinović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25278	Dear Madam Vice President of the Parliament. I am looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia to answer the question in the public interest why foreign trade chains do not pay taxes on the state's profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25279	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Kristic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25280	Dear Vice President, I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Lists Club. I'd like to talk about the position of seamen and seamen as an economic branch.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25281	Thank you. Anybody else want a break? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'll see you in 10 minutes. It's 9:00 P.M. My colleagues and colleagues, we can take a break. First came the Living Wall, colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25283	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The MEISO shoe factory from Goricana is one of the last owned by the state, and these days it seems that it could be achieved by the sad fate of most similar companies that are now mentioned as the famous past. In fact, the state insists that MEISO repays the debt of 8 million kunas 9 years old increased by interest which at this point already exceed 100% of the principal amount. Debt was created between 2006 and 2008 when the previous administration practically brought the factory to collapse. At this point, the director becomes agile Snježana Domić from the very place Goric, who, through her professional and conscious work, raised the factory, we could say from the dead. Snježana Dominić found new markets, and hired new workers, paid everyone on the day of payment, and paid all the contributions, provided Christmases, resurrections, jubilee awards, severances, solidarity support, all very modest but in time extremely thrifty with only 6 people in the factory administration. In addition, all obligations were paid to the state and suppliers. The state received 60 million kunas through taxes and contributions, while at the same time not receiving a single kuna of state subsidies, has done business without any political protection and without any favouring of the judiciary. Today MEISO employs 462 workers, and realistically looking at revenues is higher than expenditure for around 150 thousand kuna a year. At the factory every day, 3400 pairs of shoes are made for domestic and foreign partners. However, with regard to all relevant successes of the state as owner, i.e. the Ministry of State Property and the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, it does not want to help companies in the legal restructuring programme. Moreover, the CERP Supervisory Board wants to change the factory's statutes in such a way that it no longer needs expertise, but it can literally be anyone. It is required that Mrs Dominic be relieved, that the factory be taken into a pre-determined settlement, and that the debt be paid by the workers from their small salaries. If this happens amongst other things, heavy damage will also be suffered by suppliers, irreparable damage will be done to producers, and likely will be followed by not only the cancellations of workers but also the failure of the company. It is indeed saddened that the government is in every way possible to help criminally-led Agrokor, while at the same time applying other criteria to MEISO in Međimurje County. It is unfortunate that 462 workers who I welcome at this time at the assembly gallery, as well as members of their families, must experience daily fear because of years of uncertainty that could be resolved with only a little goodwill. It is sad that for years the government has been neglecting Međimurje, who has suffered so much torment throughout history to finally unite with the queen of the earth. It's unfortunate that the state is someone's mother and another stepmother, that those of whom we all live are neglected. For this reason, I call on all those responsible, and above all Minister of State Property Goran Marić, Supervisory Committee, CERP, the Government to stand behind Mrs Dominic to resolve this problem once and for all in a fair and fair way immediately without delay, and this is primarily necessary for the reasons why such a solution will benefit the most from such an approach by the state itself. I repeat once again, it is a debt of only 8 million kuna, a debt for which the current administration, and at least the workers are not responsible, a 2006 debt, a debt company that has paid to the state in the last 8 years 60 million kuna. So the amount of 7.8 times greater than the debt, and it is indeed time for someone to notice what is at last and take what would ultimately be just and in some ways send a strong message to Croatian society as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25284	Thank you. I would still ask those present not to participate in this way in the session. You can be, listen. I'm asking you to be quiet. Next club Let's change Croatia's representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25285	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected workers and workers from Međimurje, respected citizens who follow us through the media. I wanted to talk to the public about why foreign trade chains don't pay profit taxes. I've been doing a little survey, gentlemen. No one in the Parliament knows it's true. What are we talking about here, not just here at all, and what are we worried about? Experts Team Change Croatia in recent days analyzed the period from 2010 to 2015 whether the largest four sides of the corporate profit tax chain is paid to the Croatian state? It's about Kaufland, Lidl, spar and Billy. What's the find? We'll find the next one. In the six years observed, no trade chain has paid a government budget on a single kuna tax, I repeat, not a single kuna in six years. In these six years, the commercial chain mentioned, 4 trade chains made total revenue of about 56 billion kuna and total expenditure of around 58 billion kuna. Since they had higher income expenses, they were not obliged to pay the profit tax because they had losses. In addition to the losses in the six years mentioned, they transferred 2 billion kunas from the pre-2010 period. So even before 2010, they didn't pay the profit tax, which means that for a long time, they won't pay the profit tax. The questions are next gentlemen, is it possible that the trade chains are operating at a loss, and they still exist on the market? Economically not possible in regulated countries, but in Croatia it is possible. What are the causes of their losses? Are these investments in sales spaces, are they transfer prices as a way of extracting profits or perhaps invoiceing various services from mothers' companies that might have drawn money? Third question, do domestic sales chains pay profit tax? They're paying for it, gentlemen. If domestic trade chains have to pay interest on loans from 5 to 10%, and sides from 0.5 to 1%, while still paying profit tax, and the party does not, then it is unsustainable on the long term that the Agrokor case showed. Let us ask ourselves without emotion, would Agrokor or Konzum have come into this situation if he hadn't paid a profit tax or perhaps not been in trouble for at least a few more years? Who's responsible for this? Of course, the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance because they did not identify the causes and reality of showing the loss of foreign trade chains. What are the requirements of the club Change Croatia? The tax administration and the Ministry of Finance must urgently determine how much the chains mentioned must pay taxes for the past years from the start of business and increase their revenues to the state budget. Furthermore, if foreign trade chains try to deal with losses, then they need to be shown the way across the border. Market freedom and competition must exist both between domestic and foreign companies and the obligation to pay taxes to the state. In addition to the mentioned trade chains, let the rest of the chains from other furniture activities be explored, this, that. Not paying taxes means destroying the foundation of this country. Maybe our sales chains don't have such advanced calculators for business models without paying the profit tax. Croatia is a paradise for foreign investors even though it is formally not an offshore financial centre because you see you do not have to pay a tax on profits. We would have solved this problem in a year. Gentlemen, we need to bring order into our Croatia, and so let's change Croatia's request from the prime minister and the minister of finance, above all, to investigate this case, the responsibility of all those who are the regulators in charge. And you see, these workers who are at the gallery may be out of a job because of 8 million kunas, they don't pay billions here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25286	Thank you. On behalf of the club MOST, representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25287	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Croatia has a Maritime Strategy which is the first version of the Maritime Strategy to be adopted during the SDP government. Namely, it is read without cover because it did not answer the basic question, and it was eaten by a strategic branch in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not even amnesting this current government where we're part of it because we haven't done anything special about improving the status of the seamen or that they get the status that belongs to them. It is only when we as a state determine that maritimeity is a strategic economic branch that we can expect to begin solving problems. And the problems of Croatian sailors are not isolated and... maritimeity, the problem is also Croatian shipmen whose main problem is the country's strategic commitment. So the first step would be to determine the maritime strategy of the strategic branch, which means that we need to develop a new maritime strategy that will not only be a mere strategy in which wishes will be counted but a quality elaborate that is to determine the economic effects of the maritime economy and Croatia as a whole. In such an elaborate, the role of seamen in international navigation would be highlighted in a way that Croatian sailors bring in over a billion dollars a year to the country, in addition to more than tens of thousands of jobs that have been achieved on the international labour market, with the help of their fellow sailors, in a specific way. They do not live or their families outside the Republic of Croatia because they spend almost all that money coming into Croatia. In fact, it is the most important thing for Croatian sailors to be provided with adequate social conditions that will make maritime work attractive, not to work with seven crusts, which the state administration enriches from year to year. Otherwise, we lose battles on the international maritime market with far east seamen, and in recent times with EU sailors from the former Soviet bloc countries. Unloyal competition does not only cause losses to seamen but also Croatian shipmen, and it is necessary to turn national policy towards seamen and seamen and do so immediately. We like to call ourselves a maritime land, but at the same time in the parliamentary procedure we release laws that are not assessed risks and costs and that will bring harmful effects to the sea and even tourism, agriculture which is our strategic branch, which is very ineffective and practically realistic suicide. I will only list a few concrete measures that should be taken to improve the status of the seamen, so trainees, machine deck trainers and electrical technicians are discriminated against other trainees in the Republic of Croatia. They are not among the measures currently in force in the Republic of Croatia. The proposed measure would allow for additional training by a large number of seamen after completing schooling, in the future of over 500 nauticals and engineers, to complete secondary or university training of the maritime direction and not be able to secure boarding on board a ship as a trainee for a year, ending their compulsory educational process that is a prerequisite for the acquisition of the officer's knowledge. We have a problem with the rights of parents of children with severe developmental disturbances, we will also propose amendments and additions to the rules in terms and procedure for obtaining the right of an employed parent or self-employed parent with severe developmental disturbances on vacation or on part-time work for the care of a child who allows part-time work for the wives of the seafarers. Also, a proposal to improve the social status of unemployed and ill Croatian sailors in international navigation. With the problem of achieving a training internship that becomes one of the biggest maritime problems in Croatia, it is important to draw attention to this most significant problem in international navigation in case they fail to achieve 183 days of sailing. Seafarers are then subject to a tax obligation in accordance with the specific tax rules laid down in the Maritime Code. The existing legal solution undoubtedly states that those tax rules lack a social component and that the most vulnerable unemployed and sick and those who enter a working relationship for the first time are at risk among the maritime population. And in conclusion, and probably most importantly, the conclusion of a new national collective contract for Croatian sailors in national navigation. In 2017, the first EU-wide concession of Croatian line maritime transport will take place, and since 1.1.2018, there has been a certain possibility of entering foreign shipping competition from the EU. The primary problem is therefore the absence of a national collective maritime contract in national navigation that would enable and protect the working social standard for all seamen under whom no shipman would be allowed to go and, in that sense, prevent social dumping and unfair competition in national navigation and Croatian shipmen who already maintain existing lines and who are threatening to lose them. The working and social standards established by the new collective agreement would apply equally to all shipowners, thus preventing the erosion of standards and safety on the Croatian sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25330	Dear Vice President, here you can see that I've been a little confused myself. Due to the resolution of the three ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia, I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25331	So we can't do two more replicas? You insist on taking a break? Okay. Anybody else want a break? A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25332	Thank you, Madam Vice President. For the same reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25333	You got it. A colleague of Taritash's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25334	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25335	Thank you. Is there anyone else? There isn't. Thank you very much. We'll continue at 11:30. It's 11:00. 15 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.35 HOURS]] On behalf of the SDP club, representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25337	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking at a constituency on the right there are no members of the ruling majority. I just want to send one message, for the second time in a year Croatia is a hostage of one man. The first time was Tomislav Karamarko, the second time was Zdravko Maric. Croatia has suffered the consequences of a long bad HDZ and MOST marriage again due to the burden of affairs by one of the government's members. The SDP is ready to take responsibility at any moment to replace this poor government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25338	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, representative Branko Bačić. He's not in the hall. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, representative Anka Darka Taritash. Unfortunately, she's not here either. He's losing his right to this part of the debate. Arsen Bauk again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25339	Madam Vice-President, because of the obvious political crisis in the country, it suggests that the Croatian Parliament today interrupts the session until a little situation is stabilised. You can see there are no ruling ones in the hall. I now welcome Mr. Minister. I ask that our proposal be considered and I think it would be a clear parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25340	I'm sorry. In line with good parliamentary practice, I can allow colleagues and Bačić and Anka Mrak Taritas to say what they have on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25341	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ club asked for a break to clarify the prime minister's decision to request the resolution of the three Most Ministers of Mr. Orepic, Mr. Sprlje and Mr. Dobrovic. In fact, the assumption of the government's functioning of the coalition government is primarily the mutual trust of the main partners who chose the government, who supported the government. Although the government is made up of members, the ministers who come from the HDZ and from the line of the Most, however, the prime minister proposes ministers to the Croatian Parliament, and this is his constitutional right both under the Constitution and under the Law on Government, in order for the government to be able to function, the necessary trust that the Prime Minister has with all ministers. On important political issues such as confidence in the minister, the finance minister expects the government to function if all ministers give support to their counterparts and, above all, show confidence to the prime minister who proposed them to become ministers. For this, it is unacceptable for us in the HDZ to, at times when Croatia is looking for political stability, when Croatia is facing Croatia's major economic challenges, partly conditioned by the implementation of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the implementation of the regime at the border, which introduces systematic control, when a consensus of all political parties is necessary, especially us who form the Government in order to amend the regime, in order to contribute to the strengthening of the tourist season, a minimum to ensure that the government survives the necessary trust of the main partners in that government on the one hand. On the other hand, it is unacceptable that at times when the Republic of Croatia, and thanks to the government's work, great macroeconomic indicators that speak of GDP growth, all important international institutions provide better macroeconomic indicators when it comes to GDP growth in 2017 compared to those projected a year ago, half a year ago. In the fact that the state budget for 2016 records a historically low deficit of 0.8% of the state budget, we expected that we would have clear support for all partners in the government and that neither our local elections nor the rating of a particular political party would be ahead of those interests, and these are the interests of the Republic of Croatia. And on this trail that these interests of the Republic of Croatia could be implemented by the Government, could bring economic measures, it was necessary that the unity that is necessary in the Government so that these projects could take place. It is therefore clear that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the prime minister, in accordance with the Government Act, did not have the confidence of his ministers, requested his resolution. It is clear that this is probably what our colleagues in MOST knew, because several days have been the subject of negotiations and trust talks by the Minister of Finance. We believe that the allegations that SDP colleagues made in their request for the resolution of the finance minister do not stand, that the finance minister does not have, what is burdened him is not true, that the finance minister is doing his job great, that nothing in the request for resolution has proved to him guilty on the one hand and, on the other hand, clearly that he has the full confidence of the Prime Minister. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community and the prime minister personally stood behind the finance minister and in the debate that will be held in the Croatian Parliament on the confidence of the Minister of Finance we will give all the arguments that the Government has made today in its statement. And we asked our colleagues from the MOST to support this sign written by the government and to support it and Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25342	Thank you. A colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25343	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm gonna start by maybe making a little joke about making this all easier. Yesterday we had a Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, namely the Government has three times adopted a Strategy for Spatial Development but failed to bring it to Parliament. The first time he stopped working, the second time we had, we were also participants in the disbanding before we managed to get the strategy on the bench, she came on the board the third time yesterday. And I joke and tell my colleagues from HDZ and the Most, please try to stay in the coalition long enough to bring that strategy. So perhaps the Spatial Development Strategy will be one of the reasons behind Minister Maric's situation. But let me say it out of this pay phone, clearly, loudly and unequivocally. The Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats will not take part in any over-debts that are likely to start to be whispered about. That's not what we're involved in. We know what the council majority is, 76 hands, and we'll see where we are and what we are. It is equally known what responsibility means, responsibility to be prime minister, responsibility to be minister. When you are a minister not only have responsibility for your portfolio, you have responsibility for the policies implemented in that portfolio, you have responsibility for this country. We in this House talked a few times about our young people leaving, a few times we talked about this demographic problem, a series of things we talked about, let's talk about responsibility for this country's leadership. Anyone who enters the coalition becomes a coalition partner and has a responsibility for a job that has decided to work of course over the next four years. We were also together with our coalition partner SDP in the coalition and did our 4 years. Do what needs to be done. No one has the right to act like a little child, so when something suits him, he's here, and when something doesn't suit him, he's not there. I won't be long. And I repeat once again for the end, the HNS is not involved in any over-debts, there's no need for anyone to ask us any more questions. However, the HNS knows what is the responsibility of leading this country. HNS knows what's responsible for doing good local elections. HNS knows what responsibility is when it runs any resort but knows what it is and responsibility when it sits in this assembly. I'm asking nicely that we all take care of it. The future of this country depends on us. Let us not gamble on the opportunities we have received, the voice of common sense, be responsible and see really in this situation what and how and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25372	Dear Vice President, given the statements made by Parliament President God Petrov on the crisis in the government, I demand a break on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives for 10 minutes to give their opinion on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25373	Thank you. Do you want to wait 10 minutes for a break or say what you have right now? What do your colleagues say?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25374	And I'd like to take a break. It's 1:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25375	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13,08 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25376	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. After Prime Minister Plenkovic's move today and a statement by Parliament President God Petrov, it is quite clear that the HDZ and MOST government is unable to solve problems in the country, it is only capable of creating them. In just a year and a half today, however much less, the two parties have brought Croatia on the third side of the parliamentary elections, the two parties are destroying their own governments and deepening the crisis that Croatia is in, the economic crisis, the social crisis and the moral crisis. This is what the parties, the first, HDZ, the largest party in late 2015, who, in cooperation with the Most, set as prime minister of a Canadian citizen who could not even speak Croatian, the lobbyist of foreign corporations, who sold Slavonia to Canadian oil companies, intended to bring GMOs to Slavonian fields, sell it to Monsanto and whose sole task was to spend 100 thousand kunas, eat caviar, drink champagne and then return to the same company from which he came. The HDZ government, which elected the party's president in May last year with 100% votes to knock him down by 100% in July, proposed by Minister Maric as prime minister. The same party is setting up a new lobbyist of foreign interests as a candidate for prime minister who wins, so that the same prime minister in less than six months will now decide to bring down his own government and lead the people who know by order for now those power centres that are undefined. We have a MOST that tells one thing, and the other one does, which would like to be an opposition and power at the same time, which, on the one hand, would like to rip up the papers of lex Agrokor, and on the other hand vote for lex Agrokor, which promises some kind of reform, which promises some kind of reconstruction of Croatia's territorial organisation, public administration, reduction of wages. And what's he doing? He's in love with his own staff, helping a government that he knows very well is hostile to her. So what do we have today? Today we have a situation where the masks have finally fallen. Now you see the truth, this government doesn't work, it doesn't solve the problems, this government defends the indefensible. A few months ago, they defended Minister Barisic, now defending Minister Maric, will defend any other minister if his trust comes to question. There's no deal, no cooperation, tolls are rising, real estate tax is being introduced, construction rents are being introduced, the country is in debt. And this law that comes today in subsidising residential loans is nothing more than another banking prank that the current government wants to sell us as some spin that it's supposed to do for the benefit of the citizens. And all this time this same government and the media under her control are saying they're demeaning everything the Living Wall says, mocking us, saying we're circusers, and now you can see who the circusers are, now you can see who's been telling the truth all along. We've spoken and we repeat, he can't co-operate with HDZ, nor with the SDP. This way, the problems won't be solved. Croatia is sinking, and we insist on it, and today we are proud of everything we have said. Now look in the mirror and tell yourself who deserves criticism, who was right? See what you've done to the misery you've brought us to with your irresponsible behavior?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u25377	Thank you. Since one part of the representatives at board meetings and since we are really very few in the hall, and I think this topic for citizens is very important I will announce a break by 15.00 hours. I'll see you at the session at 3:00. Thank you very much. It's 13,15 o'clock. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda. It's about: - Proposal for a law on subsidisation of housing loans, first reading, P.Z. No. 126; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you go, Minister. Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Mr. Lovro Kuščević.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37157	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues of the Assembly and MPs, colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning. Here it is, before you is the proposal for a loan subsidy bill with the Final Bill. In fact, seeing the situation that an increasing number of young Croatian families are having difficulty resolving their first housing issue due to real estate prices, due to the market situation. We decided to introduce this law where we would introduce a measure to encourage and help resolve the housing issue of young families. Namely, this bill provides that persons under the age of 45 are allowed to acquire the first real estate or purchase other real estate, larger real estate for the need to expand the family. Under the bill, the state will co-finance 50% of the loan rates for the first four years of repayment. We also introduced one I'd say a small intelligence measure, namely if within that co-financing the family gets a child or adopts a child then the deadline for each child will be extended for another two years. Here's another one, I'd say, social measure, if the applicant or family member is more than 50% disabled then the co-financing period will be extended by another year. The maximum price of property that can be bought is 1500 euros per metre per square metre, i.e. at a maximum of 100 thousand euros. Of course they are acceptable and higher amounts, however, will only be co-financed to this amount that I have just said. Here, I can point out that we have introduced a criteria for buying new apartments, new houses, but also used apartments and used houses as well as for granting co-financing of loans for building a house if the applicant requests, on the day of the application, has a valid building and ownership act or a right built on the land on which he wants to build. Why did we bring it in? There are, especially in smaller areas in the Republic of Croatia, areas where there are no new apartments on the market, where there is no housing. So here's how we wouldn't force young people from my Brač, Ilock, Like or I don't know where they have to move to a big city and buy an apartment anyway so they can buy a used apartment, a used house in their own area, in their home, or build a new house. We also encourage this way, I would say urban regeneration because brownfield real estate, therefore old houses, thanks to this, we expect it to be restored and, of course, there will be no need to use a new space for new construction, but the existing properties will also be renovated. We expect this law to have good effects. We're thinking of realising about 1,500 loans, 1500 hundred apartments, which houses. Here's what we'll see when the whole procedure is closed. The procedure should go the next way, after the Croatian Parliament passed this law then the APN, the Agency for Real Estate Transport, which under the direct management of the ministry, issued an invitation to Croatian banks. We put here that Croatian banks can offer a maximum interest of 3.75% just so that we can see, to prevent some kind of interest rate, some kind of big interest. After the APN has approved, i.e. chooses, close contracts with certain banks that will meet the requirements, then a call will be made, our fellow citizens will make demands and we will approve the demands. Here, I think this law contains, as I also said in the introduction, the most intelligent policy, the housing measures, and here's the social measures. It will certainly contribute and grow Croatian economies through the growth of the civil sector because we expect and sell new construction. The one who sells apartments, we expect to build new apartments. So we keep it in the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a good bill. We suggest you accept it, and me and my professional services are available for any further clarifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37158	Thank you. We have four replicas on your exhibit. First replica representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37159	Thank you very much. Your Honor, this is a very strong measure, and this law is really what I'd say I'd raise both my hands for it. Because the main problem of our society is indeed demographic policy, from year to year, all of us are less. And if we're out of people, I don't know who's going to produce GDP, I don't know who's going to make a budget out of which it's possible to pay pensions. So I don't know how if we don't approach this problem in a really good way. This law if accompanied in a budget with a significant amount in any case by a very strong and very strong measure to improve this situation, to enable young people to buy apartments, build houses, buy houses or something. I'm particularly pleased with this bonus you gave people when they have a child or adopt a child to actually extend their co-financing deadline. And here I would actually like the law to go to the second reading in the regular procedure which is also very good, so think about everything we're going to say here today, to think about until the second reading that maybe such a bonus given to those who buy the house, who buy the property or build the house, wants to build a property in these parts of Croatia that are actually depopularized. The whole area is actually a spectrum of areas in Croatia where people have moved out, where people have gone, where there are houses, there's a certain infrastructure, and there's some kind of life that needs to be inhaled there. People who would decide to go back there, who would decide to start a life there, I think we should also help them because it won't be a lot of budgets. There are houses and land actually cheaper than in other areas. So here's a pure suggestion to think about until the second reading, I think that would be just as strong and a good measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37160	Thank you. Next replica, advocate Marin Skibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37161	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Here on behalf of young people, I have to say that this law actually suits banks. So what's this about? This is about creating a budget deficit in favour of bank profits. So we've been seeing this whole time from the beginning of this call for the Parliament through tax reform to implement the policies of the International Monetary Fund. Because before this measure was a measure of making it easier to buy the first real estate, but now it is trying to cover the eyes of young people and young families, that they will benefit from this measure. But the first criticism is that it applies to only 1,000 people and can even be interpreted as one discrimination. What about the other young families? And the other thing is what happens after those four years. Have you been paying attention to the regulation of interest risk, whether or not you've been paying attention to the regulation of currency risk, whether you know that it can come in four years for a terrible unsavourable scene of deaction and an even greater exodus of young people than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37162	Thank you. Next replica, MP Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37163	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Kushčević, I am particularly pleased that you have come to defend this law, it is a very important law. What's bothering me right now is why aren't you answering your lines? I don't get it. In the end, you will answer. [[Intruder Opačić: In the end it will.]] About what I saw in the proposal for a public debate, otherwise the law is good, should be supported. However, if we return the story to Slavonia, then in fact, in this legislative proposal, what bothers me is that, I will put it on my example. When I went to build a house, then I came to the bank and they told me, yes, but you must have some kind of insurance instrument other than the pay average. I worked at school at the time. So I said what is an insurance instrument? So you have to pawn the house. I say, ma'am, are you kidding me? If I had a house, I wouldn't come to you. I mean, do you understand? Consider the example of a young man in Slavonia who buys an old house, which he will tear down. He actually bought a place with an old house where he's currently living until he makes a new one. I think that, you just mention it here, I don't think in the article, I can find it here right now where you're stating that everything has to provide documentation. It's mostly mentioned selling an existing house as proof that it's going to buy a new one. I think the law should install that part, meaning building a house on land where there's already a house where families live. I don't know if I explained that correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37164	Thank you. And another replica, Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers 40% on 4 years of subsidisation, yes, but if the loan rises to 20 years, it means 4 years will be subsidized. If it rises to 5 years or to 4 years, someone who has higher incomes, i.e. The salary and the possibility means he will be subsidized to 40% of the entire loan. Did you look at that, perhaps, to the point that someone who is in a more favourable position to be able to raise a larger loan or that the bank can give him a bigger loan, that it will be entirely possible to repay his entire loan 40%, or that if someone takes a 20-year loan, it will only take 4 years to subsidize him because it is the exact criteria for all who mean to raise a loan through this subsidy, that they will all be the same meaning for all to pay off subsidies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37166	Thank you. Now we're giving the minister a chance to respond to all the replicas they've been, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37167	Here's a colleague and fellow parliamentary representatives, thank you for your remarks, for your suggestions, here's a constructive one. First, I'd like to refer to my colleague Bosnjakovic. So, yes, the budget provides 17 million and 500 thousand kuna for 2017 because we are not leaving until half that year. We expect 6.7 months when the Croatian Parliament adopts the law that the call will go and for the next year 35 million kunas each year in budget projections are already foreseen, depopulated areas. You should think about it, but that's why we've just introduced the fact that it doesn't have to be a new apartment, that it can be used and that it can be a purchase. construction. So, good point. Thank you very much. The bank's bargaining, of course there's no bargaining speech, which is why we've limited that interest rate, and we've even put it in the law that as long as we stop co-financing for the next two years, we've frozen the interest rate so that the bank can't raise but at a maximum 10% higher than this one, a maximum of 10%, and later the contractual relationship between the bank and the client regulates some other regulations that we can't influence. But here's the fact that during five, six years back during the implementation of this law while he was Minister Bacic, over two thousand apartments entered this program, and only five of them were completed, only, there are a lot of those five but here he is talking about some kind of almost so they think it's one good thing and it didn't happen. And Mr. Miro Bulj, so he can't raise him to five years because it's a minimum of 15 years, so it can't happen that someone will take five years and then the state will co-finance him... a large amount because it's a minimum of five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37168	Thank you. We're moving on to a debate on behalf of the board, before I ask if anyone on behalf of the board as a rapporteur? If not, we'll move on to the debates on behalf of the club. The first club is the Live Wall Club and the SNAGA representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37169	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear ministers, members of the ministry, respected MPs and MPs. We can see this law as good and less good, but what I would like to talk about here is some suggestions on how to make the law better. I came across here after my discussions on understanding and commendation that I am very constructive, but so far, all my constructiveity has had no effect because none of my constructive ones have been accepted so far, so I hope that in the future some of it will be constructive and accepted. Well, since I'm an engineer for calling, I'm going to be constructive again because construction is my own commitment. So what could be fixed with this law? The model proposed to pay half the war for the first four years has one significant restriction, and this restriction refers to a minimum repayment period of 15 years. This restriction was introduced precisely because there would be no manipulation and no one with good income would take credit for five years and then the state would tell him half the credit would be paid back in those five years. And that's fine, in that case, if only such a model were to be applied, it should really limit the minimum payment period to 15 years and to more. However, there is another model that Franak has already proposed to the Ministry of Construction, I was personally at a meeting with representatives of the Franak Association at the Ministry of Construction and we have proposed our model which is something different. In the conversation, we concluded that it would not be good if our model were to replace this existing model, however, it could be ordered that the bank must propose two models of credit to the debtor. And this second model would be such that for the first four years, not half the war is not paid, but that the full interest is paid. So instead of co-financed in a way that pays half the war for the first four years, full interest would be paid. There is a difference here and for the state because the state has a lower cost in that case. What's this about? I'll compare one loan of 750 thousand kuna per model of Franak Association and a model that's within the law. If the FRANAK model which does not have a limit on the period of payment would be a minimum limit, if that model were applied, for example, to a five-year loan of 750 thousand kuna, the cost of the state would be 75 thousand kuna. If this model were to be applied to a loan of ten years, the state's cost would be 90,000 kuna because these are interest rates at ten years at a rate of 3.75%. If, for the same loan of 750 thousand kuna, this model in the bill is applied, the cost of the state at 15 years is 130 thousand kuna. Therefore, the cost of the State under the Franak Association model in short-term loans is lower than the cost of the State in the case of loans at 15 years of repayment. So I suggest that we also give it between two readings and in writing to propose two models. One model to be the one that's already in the law and it's limited to a minimum payment period of 15 years, and another model to be that the state pays the interest and then there's no limit on the payment deadline. It could then be credited to five and ten years, and those people who are more credit-efficient would be able to raise such loans because it's more cost-effective to them, because in that case they have a lower credit price, and for the state it's more cost-effective because it's a lower cost. In this way we could even increase the number of people who could raise such loans because it would be a lower cost of the state. That's what we're going to propose in writing. The second thing I suggest is that it must be offered and paid in equal annuities and payments in variable anunities. Popularly, it's called paying off for annuities and wars. So far, banks have never received the obligation to offer both credit-paying models when offering loans. And both credit-paying models are possible, allowed and it would be necessary to give the banks the obligation to propose both credit-paying models to their debtors, and the only credit-ability or incompetence of a debtor may then be a restriction that will not allow him to raise a loan with payments in wars. Because as one who knows, who understands these things, the payment in wars is such that from the beginning it pays more and later less. However, in wars there is always an equal share of the principal to pay off. That way, no matter how the interest changes, part of the principal's payment remains the same. Such payment can, of course, only be made by debtors who are creditworthy. However, it is necessary to make a commitment to the bank that it must certainly offer these two ways of paying off the loan. The next thing you know is these thousands of people who are going to get loans where the only criterion is who will sooner. That criterion I don't really like before. The criteria should be perhaps a little more transparent and clear and should nevertheless be preferred by people who are weaker in financial conditions, so these models allow them to raise loans and reach their properties in a easier way, with less cost and with the help of the state. So maybe you should consider paying off this way, this way of offering credit for the first 1,000 people, and introducing some criteria, the social criteria of course. So, I don't have much to spread the subject, I'm going to propose to the Ministry of Construction a certain addition to this law, I think these supplements are of a quality, that they are good for both the state and the debtors and that they can contribute to making the law a better place. Here's how much I wanted to say, thank you, and I hope that my construction will bear fruit this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37170	Thank you very much. A few replicas. The first is Anka's representative, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37171	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Alexic, you spoke in the opening part of your presentation about constructive proposals. I really want your constructive suggestions to be heard and to enter the bill and use this opportunity, it is always good that the law in two readings is for the simple reason that the proposer can then hear all the remarks that were in the Croatian Parliament and supplement until the second reading. You've equally opted for the view that it's a law that's basically good. I must admit that I personally think about housing policy differently than what the proposal of this law is for the simple reason that when you ask young people, young people especially behind what is introduced tax on real estate will rather be defined for some kind of household rather than for buying real estate. And that's why I'm interested in your position because this is how we tell young people to take credit, take credit with banks and buy real estate again. It seems to me that this is not a very good time for it all together but absolutely ruling have the right to have a housing policy that can differ from some other housing policy. Since you've been very committed to the problem and the payments of loans and loans that were in francs, and this is also about the law as well as you've said that will be able to consume approximately 1,000 to 1500 families and on board, I've been a little late, so I don't know if the minister here has repeated a sentence for those who are creditworthy. If someone were creditworthy and had no need to go outside, among other things, that's another reason why people go out, so there's a series of concerns, so I'm very interested in your position, you said that you supported this law but in relation to your experiences with the repayment of credit and the people who spoke to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37172	Thank you. A fellow Alexic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37173	I thank the esteemed vice president. Well, you're right, I said in the opening part that the law is good and it's not good. Since the law is the way it is, it's mine to suggest that the law be better, and I had my own exposure in that direction, and I'll have suggestions in that direction. Of course, some problems should, in fact, be solved through the Consumer Credit Act, above all, and through this new law, which is being prepared by the Housing Consumer Credit Act. These two laws should make some significant differences compared to how residents are credited today, and only those two laws can make real quality changes in the way they credit. Because to this day we have no solution to the problem of entry fees to be banned, exit fees to be banned, which have no basis for banking business at all because they have their own employees doing their jobs whether there is a loan or not, so they do not have any additional costs because loans are being raised, therefore entry and exit fees must be prohibited. Then I said already, there must be a mandatory offer of annuity and war, so in accordance with the credit rating, someone will raise a loan with a payment in the wars. All currency clauses other than the euro should be banned further because the only currency clause that has to do with the kuna is the euro because the CNB protects the exchange rate against the euro, until it protects the exchange rate against other currencies. So there are a series of details that can be changed and that have to be changed and among other things should be protected and debtors in existing loans because banks today are illegally manipulating interest rates. I have also proposed to HDZ and MOST and SDP one law that will address fixed interest margins. And right now, the FRANAK Association has one press conference about what we're going to hear about the next days.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37174	Thank you. Next replica representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37175	Dear fellow Alexic, I certainly think that your offer of praise is valuable and that it should be considered because, as you have said it ourselves, we also allow those who are in a certain way better financial capacity or who can provide themselves with these credit arrangements and return the war within shorter deadlines to pay off their loans and not enter into some kind of debt slavery that lasts for a long time. You were also talking about the rule that would, or the criteria for granting these loans, because it remains only the criterion that before, is who before the girl his girlfriend. I think it is very important that the commission that will work on the granting of these loans or subsidies works under a clear regulation that will be made public. It does not have to have just some social criteria, and perhaps we should include some deficiting professions, etc., that is certainly what needs to be discussed. And I think that today's debate in the assembly is exactly what we need to lead in this direction to clarify this legislative proposal that is extremely good and good but certainly there's plenty of room for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37176	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37177	I certainly agree with you, Agent Kristic, and I suggest that you also propose your ideas between these two readings and I believe there are no obstacles to getting good ideas through and that good ideas are accepted. What I've brought out, I think it's very real and it's possible and there's no reason not to accept it. Because when we had that meeting at the Department of Construction, then we suggested that our model be instead of this existing model. And at the meeting we concluded in the conversation, that it wouldn't be good if that model replaced the existing model, but actually it would be good if there were both models. So there are much better solutions possible, and I believe that there is a way that we can all work together on these solutions, not that we are constantly conflicting over whether something is good or not. The law is on the table and should be improved as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37178	Thank you. Next replica, advocate Marin Skibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37179	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Aleksic, you said well you have constructive proposals, but in the end it turns out that from HDZ and MOST they just pat you on the shoulder. But none of your proposals have been adopted so far. However, you're an expert on the subject of the Swiss franc, so I'm wondering if you think this law allows a new affair of the Swiss franc's appraisal, and regarding your finding that criteria are needed for 1,000 people who will be entitled to credit subsidies. I don't think there are any criteria needed, because it's just an ordinary shell of young people on debt slavery against banks that we've seen so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37180	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37181	I understand that you have to advertise some opposition to certain things, but there is simply a law on the table, and that is why this law needs to be improved. Because this is the way we're going to be criticizing, and we're not gonna get anywhere. Of course, for now all my suggestions, none of my proposals have passed yet. However, I did break through some barriers, so I managed to get my proposals that I had so far come to tables and MOST and HDZ and the CNB. The CNB is currently working to simulate one of my bill's proposals. We'll probably talk about that simulation next week with Governor Vujcic and his associates. A thematic session was held on the topic of illegal manipulation of interest rates. The committees should draw certain conclusions, and the Assembly will also have to draw certain conclusions. So I can't say that I'm completely dissatisfied with working with Most and HDZ. I am pleased with this cooperation for the time being, and I expect some of this cooperation to be realised this year in a concrete material sense. If nothing material is realized during this year, if nothing is materialized in that case, I will no longer be able to cooperate with the Most, nor with the HDZ as I am working with today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37182	Thank you. Next replica, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representative Aleksic, you have set the criteria for who is faster to propose the minister. I think the minister has heard you well and that the second reading should consider whether it reminds anyone who is faster of the gunman's reckoning. So whoever runs the gun faster, like it's... It's supposed to exist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think you've noticed well until the second reading that the minister would need the criteria of the social, of course and family members, the social criteria and the various other criteria that they would have tribald, at least to define the transparency of the granting of this loan subsidy. And I think it's a full shot of you in the srid. But really this... System revolver as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's gonna control that? How will the officers know who gave it up before? What are the control mechanisms in implementation? And some criteria that wouldn't be... Revolvingly, we'd be a lot more, I think, more significant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I support you here, and I think the Minister will respect this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37184	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37185	I thank the esteemed vice president. You're right, it looks like a duel at O.K. Corral. But it's not just about that speed, it's about the fact that there's probably a number of people who would want such credits and they won't even know at all in time that they have the right to do it because people are under-informed. People unless they're directly in contact with some associations, politicians, etc. Sometimes they don't even know what rights they have. So we know cases that people all the way here in Parliament have agents who haven't made a conversion of CHF loans. Interestingly, there are such people in the House so that criteria must exist, not those who are faster. Because when we go that way who's faster, then there's always a doubt that other than who's faster, there's one who's closer to the fire. So the criteria must exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37186	Thank you very much. Before we go to the next debate on behalf of the club, at our gallery we can welcome his Excellency Urban Alina, President of the Kingdom of Sweden's Parliament with members of the delegation who are staying for an official visit to the Republic of Croatia. Please welcome them with a round of applause. We can move on with our debate. [[Applause.]] On behalf of the Most Independent Lists, MP Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37187	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say right away that the Most Club MOST will support this bill. In fact, the first point in the general provisions of Article 1 states that this law, “this law, in order to encourage demographic renewal of society, urban regeneration of settlements, and to reduce the emigration of young families and to help citizens, is governed by subsidisation of housing loans,” So this law has taken a rather large role and task. I'm not too sure that they will succeed in all this, but every move, but every step towards that goal should be supported and therefore the MOST Club will support it. And I congratulate you, Minister, the law is well done. Now there are a number of questions, and it's good that this is the first reading, that you might answer some questions, maybe me and I personally have misunderstood things, so here's the chance for you to explain it to us today. In each bill, there are consequences that will arise under that law. It seems to me that these questions that are raised here are more related to what the law can cause, not what consequences will arise than what it will cause. The first question being raised, what happens to people who get into a situation so they can no longer pay off credit, what are the consequences, will they have to return the part that's subsidized, what's going to happen? And if someone decides, I'm talking about 15 years here, if someone decides to pay the loan before it expires, so if he has a deal with the bank if he decides to do so, then I now want to pay the rest of the loan in full after the fourth year, will that be possible and how will that be settled legally? And another question that arises when we speak here will the state subsidize half of the loan rate, when the user asks the business bank for a loan, what will enter his creditworthiness? Will this incentive of the state increase his creditworthiness or will it just evaluate his creditworthiness, and will this be taken as if he did not get it? I saw here in a public debate that many have pointed out that this law is in favor of the richer ones at the expense of the poor. You could not say that, but I think that question I asked in the replica, I saw that in a public debate, the government said in response to those remarks that they were being accepted, about building houses. This is very important because in this way I wear other than solving the housing issue, the construction sector is also encouraged, therefore, because in this way a value added tax is paid in construction and that is one part that is good. Some of the users have asked for retroactive application of the law, so those who may have started working a year ago or perhaps in a shorter period of time, whether they will benefit from it and whether it is possible at all. There were questions asked here and I'm personally wondering when we're talking about a thousand of them, someone calls them lucky, maybe it would be a better model to make all the demands for that year, and then on the basis of the number of requests, so if there's 1300 so let's just cut some funding, if the funds are given that 17,5 million kuna, I mean for this year, to get everyone less, I don't know some fairer model. So it doesn't really be the same way that, as in the past, the cases around those quotas and that at the post office at half the night, many requests are suddenly received. In the end, what seems most important to me in the whole story, which is related to the extension of the period of subsidisation of those families that are born or adopted during that period. Somewhere like this is my math if we're talking about 15 years of age saying that that family that would take this kind of credit and that would, for example, in that period, of course, be asking the question here, probably if a person takes a loan and four years of subsidisation after a first-born child is extended for another two years, so now he's six years old. But it doesn't count that he's going to have the next child for the next six years, but it's fixed about the next four years. If he were to extend his deadline, he would theoretically in 15 years that the family could get six children under the law, I think that should be allowed. I mean, let me, so that would actually be a lot of luck. You understand, if that deadline would be extended, it's four years old, and after the first child, six years of subsidisation, after the next eight years, and for the next eight years. Here's what's so purely mathematical. I wouldn't say it as a joke, but in the very reasoning of the law, you know, economists were counting, so I dropped this amount 6.66% was supposed to be rounded up to 6.67. It's not very good, I hope it's not going to be this little awkward number I hope it's not... this law. I really believe that this law will give us a chance in the second reading to improve it even more, that it will really help young people, and I say on the basis of what the legislator himself in the opening part has highlighted has a serious task, I hope that it will succeed in helping the young families to stay here, to create their own home because it is indeed a big problem that people leave us daily and the situation will not change unless we do something. And in the end, I would like to point out once again that the MOST Club will support this legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37188	Thank you. The first replica of Anka's representative, Mr. Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37189	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I'm going to say a little slower that my colleague, Sagar, can get to a place. So a clear attitude is supporting the law, I've been doing a little bit of replicating about what you said at the moment, and that's still what you were discussing supporting demographics. This is a law that the rulings decided on, they said we would have a loan subsidy law, allow thousands of families, or those who are creditworthy to solve their housing issue in this way, and we would give them the opportunity and the state would subsidize their credit, and then we would see what would happen. It's a clear law, technically decently made some improvements, but it's a matter of essence. Croatia and you from the area where you come from have opportunities to see young families moving out. When you ask young families why they move out, it's never because we can't solve our living issue. The answer is because we don't have a job or we want a better job. When you ask young families how you want to see what you see in solving the housing issue in the first place, then they say it's not a problem for us. There's a lot of property in the family we're going to inherit, because since 1.1, we've got real estate tax not going to sell it, we're going to inherit it, so it won't be a problem, but it's our job. If... the law had come one other law that made it possible in a certain way to create new jobs and then the consequence of this, it would have made sense together. So this is how we solve one, put one tiny cube on it, and look at the whole puzzle. So the housing question is just one part, the first and the main thing is business. If a law had come where we used this money to do new jobs, then it would have made sense, we're actually using it now for only one part that won't solve demographics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37190	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37191	Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. I have to agree with you in most of what you said, of course jobs are the first, contracts open jobs. And it's not even the subject of this law, and I agree with you that this law is a little too much of a task he's asked himself because he's not going to solve it. When it comes to Slavonia, it really is. Here's to my street to get an entrepreneurial man out of Western Europe, out of any country, believe he can pull money out of his pocket and buy a whole street. You got it. The house that was sold for 100,000 euros now can be bought for 25 thousand euros, perhaps for less. It's a house fully furnished with air conditioning, with central heating, a house of floors that has a place, that house is right here in my place. No one's going to buy it, that someone would, perhaps, agree with you, that someone would not, that someone would live for the bad people? First of all, they're jobs. An entrepreneurial zone in Slatina is called Trnovaca, it has a symbolic name, it really grows thorns. We're 100km away to the first highway, so something needs to be done first of all on the economic plan. And what people, people most resent, is that when we talk to entrepreneurs and that's where I agree with you, people say, so give it once, do you have strategies, where those strategies are. Here, I mean we can't now, Minister Kuščević is here, he defends this law, O.K. And is this law part of some strategy, general strategy? And those strategies should then, if they exist, they should all stick to them, all the resolute ministries. It was nice when Karamarko said 1,000 euros for every child. I was thinking that this man, look at this one, can't lose it burning up, how if he gives 1,000 euros to every child. But it's not a strategy, it's just some messages that sound good. In the end, I agree with you about most of you but do we have the space to say we can't, we won't even support this law? He needs support. He needs to be supported because he's going towards something that's better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37192	Thank you. Next is representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37193	Comrade Zhagar, I agree with you in the part where you say that this bill is not and should not be in the function of just maintaining a country that is also unnecessary in today's global world with many globalising ideas because the role of the state as sovereign over human economic and all other rights of citizens today is celebrated. This law is more of a speech by the government to take over a socio-economic model that takes care of its citizens. We are now not just concerned about demographics because it would be the speech of a state that fears some kind of cataclysm and because of the fear of a future fatal event keeps it in subjection to the present citizen. This proposal for a law co-financed by housing credits is a function of the concerns of citizens and the absence of some kind of narrative that we will talk about some kind of upcoming and never came of success. This is a law that is based on reality and our reality is to start caring for citizens and the population that we today hold vulnerable with the hope that this reality will give rise to a better future. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37194	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37195	Dear colleague Vučetić, so thank you for this replica, I have said before and you are a professor of philosophy and every replica of yours is enough, not only say rhetorical good and it's hard sometimes, it's hard for me to pick up everything you want to say but when you speak, two things are impressive to me. So we're talking about the role of the state. We, of course, have given up part of sovereignty by joining the EU. We keep getting pucks. We, when we want to help our man, then get our product packed by the EU because we can't do that because the market has become sacred. Globalisation, we're in it, look, we're using EU issued funds, they're all actually targeting communities. And in those communities, a man is actually lost. Because of most of us, we sacrificed an only child. And when we look at all the legal acts, all the constitutions, all the states, the developed states of man are treated as the starting point of everything. Human rights are something to put above all things. But since we are not a pack of wolves, we are human society and it is clear that the country's first and primary role to take care of all citizens is to agree with you. If this law and in the future, if not immediately, will help someone to live better and better in the future, then it certainly needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37196	Thank you. And the last replica of MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37197	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Representative Zhagar, this law may also increase jobs, perhaps buildings, something is going on. And this law has, of course, a positive intention to encourage our people to stay, mostly young in these areas. However, you mentioned a moment ago a strategy. How much money, money, state, local spending on strategies that are invaluable. I think we could build buildings, buildings, houses that could live 16 million inhabitants in Croatia. So, the missing strategies. It is not that there are no strategies in Croatia but there are too many strategies that are inconclusive. It's from local level, regional to state very easily verifiable how much strategy is made, how many strategies are being talked about but not implemented, they're writing lipo but they're inconclusive. You say, it's very important this, that's what my colleague Alexic used to say earlier, which is what you're talking about now, so the way these loans were granted. So they must be, they must not be, like, allocated quotas for renewable energy sources for a minute until midnight to foreign investors, not our citizens who had solars on their houses. So it's a very important criterion that needs to be transparent so it doesn't happen like these sources of these renewable energies. So, it's a very positive law. But the question is how many in Croatia today we have empty properties in undeveloped areas that are collapsing and how much this law is going to make all of this come together in society and that our young people survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37198	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37199	Thank you. Dear fellow Bulj, therefore, in this part of which is included in the law and the possibility of building real estate, and this law will contribute, therefore, to fostering the development of the economy. Here's the construction sector I hope something happens then. As far as the strategy is concerned, I would disagree with you. We have a lot of very good strategies but they are often victims of daily policy, so either change of government, so if someone predicted it before then this next government will not be implemented. Here's an example of the Virovitica Hospital. I was talking about her yesterday. There, the director terrorises the citizens, her employees, who dared to go to Facebook. There was a project, so a signed, public procurement for the equipment of operating halls, only 30 million kunas, and that was stopped by the next government after the government of Zoran Milanovic. In particular, Minister Nakic stopped the project. Now it's that project again he's going, even expanded. But you shouldn't do that. Good things should not be stopped just by changing political relations. Here's another thing I'm going to ask you, maybe somebody I don't know my colleagues my age, and a little older remembers it. You know why Stipe Shuvar still remembers? Well, he did something in the field of education and education regardless of what I thought was a good thing that he did or didn't do. So, when that school education system changed. That's what the Shuvar reform is known for. So, we now, and when we look back about 10, 15, 20 years, we don't actually have anything to say that's done. I remember Minister Vokic more who was a good education minister than some other people just because she knew from which circle she actually came and what she represented. So it's very important for us that what the paper in the strategies says is being implemented and that reforms are finally being implemented, then this law will make more sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37200	Thank you. We're going to the next club. On behalf of the club Let's change Croatia Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37201	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs, Honorable citizens who listen to our debate. It cannot be against a single idea to help especially young people in the demographic situation, which is bad, which means that young people are allowed to have normal development so that the family has a place to live. It's the goal of every organized country and society, and I really don't think there's anyone who wouldn't support these intentions. However, there is always a question of how we come to this and I repeat the party Change Croatia supports the government's efforts to help young people, families acquire their home, apartment or build a house. But gentlemen, now I'm going to show as an economist on two examples that this is not an operational model. And I'm already calling on Mr. Minister, to sit down, it's good that this is the first reading, to compare the figures, to preserve a good intention of keeping an eye on how many children there are one, two, three, to, therefore, welcome that, therefore, the table, the scale of interest rates and subsidies and apply, that is to say, to stimulate and to do so. But what does the term subsidize mean, subsidies? Subsidy and subsidy are never in the interest of either acceptable or tempting private creditors. They want to do business under commercial conditions, so what's subsidized they have to make up somewhere. That's exactly what I'm gonna talk about. So if we have eyes and ears and we respect the arguments, then let's respect the arguments, and not so I don't think anyone here can talk about these important issues in an ideological cheerleader way. So here are two examples. It's a $750,000 loan for 20 years and we have two models. One is at 6% a year as much as you can get five and a half now, but I took 6% every 20 years. That's 240 wars, the monthly annuity would be 5373 kuna. And a total of one million and 289 thousand 520 kuna would have to be paid off. If in the second model we take the same loan of 750 thousand kuna per 20 years with 2% then the monthly annuity would be 3794 kuna, hence the difference between the total interest burden in the first case 6% and with 2% would be 372960 kuna. Now, somebody's gonna say so you see you're smart, but why don't you explain to us how we're gonna finance these loans at 2%? I mean, it's easy to throw around. Now I repeat the story. If we subsidize something, let's subsidize the interest rate, and that's not the private sector or the bank. This must be a state project, gentlemen. Demographic recovery cannot go without financial support, and financial support must be systematically organised, which means that state institutions, which are CNB, Ministry of Finance, HBOR or perhaps HPB connect in this resolution model to make these loans more favourable to young people. And to say now in the calculation that I've made, the state would pay 50% interest in four years alone, that's what we're told, and it seems very acceptable to hear, but young people who aren't economists don't look any further. After four years, the minister says for another three years we will ban banks from raising interest rates that is seven years. And gentlemen, what about 13 years to 20 years, is the interest rate maybe going to rise to 10% because it's variable? When we calculate how much annuity at an interest rate of 2% and the principal of 750 thousand kuna, we see that this solution offered by me and the party change Croatia, compare the effects of the subsidized four years 50% and the approval of the same loan with 2% in the beginning of this model saves people 244 thousand kuna. And just before, the representative of Schibol literally said, I'm going to use a colloquial word, that this really looks like a hood. It sounds a little rough, but gentlemen, these are numbers. Somebody convince me it's different. But there is a bank in Croatia called HBOR. What's she rebuilding and developing? If we're talking about demographics, maybe it's an area that she needs to support and develop, a couple of excellent areas of importance. So why isn't anyone involved in this, it needs to be answered by people who are in power. So, if young people want to be helped, and not just new construction should be included, but what is said here, I really agree with that and real estate throughout Croatia because people in rural areas have already built buildings, and that should help. But I want to warn the citizens here, and I said what I really think, despite the good intentions that I support, that this model hides risks within myself, and I, as a serious man, must warn from this place that this model carries significant risks. So in some previous period they called the same people, not only young people, but others, as they said, here you see you have loans related to the Swiss franc and these loans have the lowest interest rate, so hundreds of thousands of people were turned black. Of course this isn't the same thing that we understand each other, I have no intention of mineing this project at the very beginning, but I want to speak with arguments. What are the possible risks? The potential risks are that after four and three years, respectively, seven years, there is a change in interest rate that is no longer fixed, it is variable. You can't influence private banks to say you can't change the rest. So in this context, in short, what we or the party change Croatia proposes to the Minister and the Government and for the second reading, first to sit down to compare the figures, we all want help. We suggest that these loans have to be purely kuna, forget the currency clause. I don't want anyone to get me wrong anymore, help me, and I don't want anyone to have to start any new currency risk protection associations, so they're going to fight for five, ten years. This subsidized loan must have a fixed interest rate, fixed from the beginning to the end of up to 2%, and by the number of children of one, two, three he can even be between 0.5 and 2% so let's make that scale. How are we going to ensure this, make it possible to ask the question again? So I repeat, such a privileged interest rate of 2% can only be provided with the cooperation of the Ministry of Finance, the Government, the State, the CNB and the Bank whether it will be HBOR or HPB on that. So I think and I have arguments that I suggest on behalf of the party to fix this model, he has good intentions but if he stays like this, he carries significant risks. So let's avoid it while it's really time. I repeat, it cannot be implemented exclusively in the private sector because they are not interested and I understand because everyone defends their private interest in the market. These are not commercial conditions and cannot be, and if they are not then a model must be offered that will be sustainable. Are they offering anywhere else in other countries like this with 2%? How can you then go to Slovenia, so how did they secure it? The way I explained it. In Italy, Austria, Germany, the same gentlemen. Don't be fooled by stories of risk, which is why the interest margin has to grow. Let those who speak come here explain or at the scientific meeting confirm their thesis. And finally to mention something else that is very important, Mr. Minister, we have in Zagreb in a village called Sopnica-Jelkovac, no one knows how many unsold apartments there, you see. Imagine, in the capital of the 21st century, no one knows what was sold and what wasn't, no report was filed. But it's supposed to be about 600 apartments empty, empty. But you know what else? The city of Zagreb pays to Holding, which established every month fees not only for apartments but also for garages and business premises over 3 million euros, means about 22.25 million kuna, so multiply it by 10 years. That's in those abandoned apartments? Air, ants, mosquitoes. Why don't we talk about it? Here, let me finish. We are at our disposal as a party and our expert team, and here I am again speaking to the public to remain on time to warn that if this model is finally firmly represented that people who are taking loans in this way will be exposed to significant risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37202	Thank you. First replica representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37203	My colleague Lovrinović, I must commend this second part of your debate in which you are offering your knowledge to improve this law but I must also criticise the first part in which you spoke about ideological ways and overtaste. It is really possible that this is about overtaste every time you try to prename a problem, so we can see this pre-immensionation when something that is basically just an offer to Croatian citizens when you look at it in some way to get them into the area of absolute freedom for the next 30 or I don't know how many years. That's not what this is about. It is one measure that is indeed at the level of the offer to Croatian citizens and that touches only one part or one segment of our existence rather than the total. So all of these political and, that come from the level of political discourse warnings, we need to put in brackets. And what you were saying as an economic expert should certainly be taken into account and see if it is possible to put it into the final draft of the law and whether it will improve this legal offer to our citizens. And really, I wouldn't say anything political about these flavors, and it's much more dangerous for me to get on the platform of such a wink, that every law is observed almost at the level of national terrorism than the citizens. None of the laws are because no law will succeed and will not be able to subsist Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37204	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37205	Dear Mr. Vuccitic, I wouldn't look back on your criticism of the so-called. My ideological approach is because as far as I've seen here, I'm the only one who spoke with numbers here, so I'm asking the other MPs to talk like that. If anyone has numbers, they want to disprove what I said, please, we're all here, we have the opportunity and the right to talk. I understand you as an article of MOST and thus the ruling coalition that you want to support, so I said that I support intent and idea but perhaps you better than me know that sometimes the path to hell can be filled with the best intentions. You as a philosopher must know that. So we defend our goals, our ideas, our intentions, but let's not forget these numbers that we have in the economy are cruel, we're real, we're cold, and we can't just run away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37206	Thank you. Next is Ivica Misic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37207	Thank you, Vice President. As an entrepreneur, I am always suspicious when it comes to helping me. I think these loans that are now, they need to be granted to thousands of people, it's not help. It's not a strategy. In my opinion, the strategy is if the state makes credits of 0.5 that you mentioned up to 2% in kuna values, not to be tied to some foreign currencies I consider a strategy. Then the citizens and young people themselves will decide to take it because they will know what is ahead of them for the next 20 years. If inflation happens they're a convenience, if they don't, they know everything. This is a question of what kind of subsidy it is after four years. What happens after four years? How much interest will it raise after four years? I think as an entrepreneur, I would never take such a loan, is if a man is a strategist then he has to think about what we're going to do tomorrow, what's going to happen, the government will come, inflation will come. We've seen the Swiss francs of 350,000 people have been completed. For me and my thinking, there can't be benefits for 1,000 people, but thousands of people need to give credits from 0.5 to 2%, and they themselves, because educated young people are going to decide in kunas and they will know that they will surely have a war of 2,000, 5,000, and it doesn't matter, and they will know what's waiting for them for 20 years. This way, these people will never know after 5 years what can happen, in what state we go, we say we have no, why we don't have money, from the National Bank why she didn't do it in time without talking here, this morning you mentioned the profits of no foreign company paid anything to the Croatian state without talking about how many taxes were not paid in this country and of course we're always in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37208	Thank you. Next up is Anka's representative, Mrak-Taritash. And if you'll excuse me, reply to the line, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37209	Here's a distinguished fellow, Misic, you see, for four years, a young man would be protected by this model, a young man, so because the state subsidized him 50% of the interest burden. After four years and up to twenty years, after the fourth and until the twentieth years, he is exposed to the will of the lender. The interest rate can be six, ten, and who knows how much. Meanwhile, a man can run out of work, economic opportunities can deteriorate in the country and so on. The creditor will be able to protect against these economic difficulties that are coming, but the other side has no tools to protect itself. And I repeat here again and call if this government cares about doing something right and boasting, then make a good model. I'll be the first to support it, indeed, but let it be sustainable, let the figures show that it's sustainable. And the word subsidized, as I said, cannot come from a commercial, private market, but must first and foremost come from a state, Central Bank and, above all, domestic banks, exclusively kuna loans. Don't ever take any more currency-related loans. If someone's saying you have to, and I understand the banks. That's what I'm talking about. I want to defend the banks. Why do banks approve loans with the currency clause? Because the Croatian National Bank has for 20 years not approved loans in kunas. They must import foreign exchange loans, sell from the Croatian People's Bank, and then protect themselves from currency risk. That's why this country and its economy are failing among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37210	Can we please do two more lines and then give you a break? It's so urgent. Thank you. We're done with the debates that were tied up at the break. Please continue with the replicas now. The following was representative Boris Lalovac at the presentation of representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37212	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow, I think your debate was quite well focused, very constructive and especially in the part where you said that this way of subsidising housing loans should be applied, i.e. that it should be written in the law that this applies only to kuna loans. I think it's very important. Why? Number 1 because money is given by the Croatian Government, meaning it is given from the Croatian budget, we speak in kunas. So it wouldn't happen, that it wouldn't happen by chance if it were financed so that it wouldn't actually go to exchange rate differences because we know that every month, depending on how much someone will pay the principal or not. And that's very important, so we know that funding in kunas and that the Croatian state encourages it in this way. So let the banks compete who will give cheaper swears. So it wouldn't be just when you have, if 3.75, we're talking in kunas and you're giving it a certain subsidy, then it makes some sense to have the whole of this law. And that's why I think she was going in the right direction. I'll also talk about it something that if you already have a chance to favor the kuna. And it's also very important to say what you said about the billing of the loan of 2% and 6%, so let's see what the impacts are, we see that you calculated that somewhere even 50,000 euros is actually the price of a certain apartment if something is financed by 2% or below 6. So since we're giving in that section, we're gonna limit the banks anyway. I see that the minister tried to limit that interest rate, but let's do it, and that's good, but let's just let these loans be in kunas and then it'll be another step in improving this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37213	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37214	Dear fellow Lalovac. Here wasn't so long ago when you were Minister of Finance, and I was on behalf of the FRANAK Association because I was an advisor, when we were talking about people who got into a lot of trouble because someone seven, ten years ago was telling them these were favourable loans. So you saw how all of us hurt our heads, especially those people who were affected by such loans. So when, I welcome this support of yours and what you've presented, and I'm glad to hear more and more about it, that the only currency in which loans will be granted to domestic people to buy domestic goods in this case will be kuna. So do we, so how long are we going to have to argue that Kuna is a legal and definitive means of payment in this country? Here the most state institutions violate the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, are expressed in euro, are in debt in euro, in the currency clause, and kuna is thrown aside. And one of the key things that encouraged me to enter politics, establish a party and simply make a coalition is to restore monetary sovereignty to the Republic of Croatia. We're not gonna solve anything without it and I'm glad that the SDP, I hope this isn't your lonely opinion within the SDP. I'm glad the SDP supports it, so it's also asking for housing loans to be granted exclusively in kunas. That's what we need to reconfirm our currency, and I'd be glad if you support a fixed interest rate of 2%. Now, that's a real subsidy. If he gets rid of it, adopt a minister, then we can say don't help us. Then people will say don't help us, please. This is the best way, and then no one will ever have to pull any politician's hand to look for a relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37215	Thank you. Next replica, representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37216	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Lovrinović, I sign what you said more, but I would just like to return the story to one key problem in this entire project. So he's one-time, we're all aware of that. So it is limited to only 1,000 people or families in Croatia. Well, it's a program of a bigger city in Croatia, not a government programme, which I want to warn you about. I ask the question what about tens of thousands of other families who won't be able to get through this program at all. I ask the question why have we abolished the non-taxation of buying an apartment for young families if it's the first real estate? Why did we cancel that? And now, that was worth everything, that's the point. And now we're only going to 1,000 families. There's a problem with this program and the problem is that it's one time, which isn't for two, three years new tours of 1,000 people, so for 2 years again 1000 people etc. etc. So that's how you had to show your will to help a larger number of families in Croatia? I remind you, 1,000 people are, 1,000 people are two families per city or municipality in Croatia including the city of Zagreb. So on the 800,000 inhabitants of the two will get by that key loan this subsidized one. It's a minor measure, it's not enough. That's what I'm saying. And this relief that was, so 4% per 100,000 euros is 4,000 euros for all young families that buy their first apartment. And that's where the key was the support. Why did we cancel that? We shouldn't have stopped it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37217	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37218	Dear Greek fellow, here I agree with your proposal, I think it is a good one and that the promoter should really consider this not to be a one-time action, but to be continued. I think that's a good idea. But let's set up another thesis and I think you'll agree with me. So look, if there's a thousand people, there's a thousand young families of 750,000 kunas, right? Let's look for each one for his real estate. That's 750 million kuna. Why does no one start a request, and I'm starting to tax banks in Croatia at last, because these are the only institutions that don't pay taxes and that's how we raise money. In that case, we can borrow, so I won't say that I can fully approve that the principal doesn't have to come back either. But we can make such favorable resolutions that will be in the service of demographic restoration. This is obviously an attempt to find the best solution and I repeat what I said. I accept and confirm and agree with your idea that this is a constant variant of offering favourable loans to young families, to be exclusively in kunas, a fixed interest rate of 2%, to be ranked. It means that the interest rate is even lower for each of the next children, because the most important thing in this Croatia is a beautiful demographic restoration. Without it, there's nothing. If we really want to carry out this demographic rebirth seriously, then this is the most important investment anyone can make in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37219	Thank you. We move to debate on behalf of the club, the HDZ club representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37220	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the proposal for a law on subsidisation of housing loans. We also welcome that he is in the first reading, so that everything we present in the debates, suggestions and suggestions until the second reading can be considered by the Minister, or the Government, then eventually adopted. As Mr. Minister said in his opening statement, it is a social and demographic measure directed towards people who have no settled housing issue, which is up to 45 years old and which allows them with state policy measures through subsidisation so that they can resolve the housing issue. But before I say a few words about that part, since the proponent of this measure is nevertheless the minister of spatial planning, I would not miss out on the measure relating to the promotion of housing because these measures will contribute to the faster sale of apartments, it is not disputed because we have experience from six years ago and then will clearly contribute to new housing, and thus to the promotion of construction. Otherwise, when we talk about construction, I would like to say that construction as little activity in Croatia suffered during the crisis. When you compare the number of construction workers with the number before the crisis today, then you will see that 50,000 jobs have been lost in 2008 and that in Croatian construction, there have been 140 thousand employees, today there are no 90,000. Of course, many of these are employees, much of which the number of employees was involved in high construction, and this was the time of very intense construction of residential construction in Croatia, which was then clearly due to the reason for the economic crisis stopped. So I also look at this measure in the context of the promotion of construction, and when it comes to construction, then there are a number of other activities involved in the construction and equipment of apartments. It's not when I talk about this to ignore the fact that the funds it receives from a state-owned person, a citizen who takes credit on this project for four years, will get from a state-owned asset that allows him to equip his apartment. So when you calculate that it is about ten percent, the amount for which the credit is raised will be paid back from the amount to be paid back to the credit user for four years, when it is calculated then that amount is about as much as necessary for that apartment to be equipped with furniture and all that is necessary for a young man who is in charge to take and buy an apartment, to solve his living issue then the state through this measure allows him to provide practically the means to equip the apartment and it is very important. What I agree with many of my predecessors, which is the day-to-day possibility of subsidizing thinking about some other measures that would improve this loan. But what we need to say is that we cannot segmentally observe the promotion of housing and housing policy through this law. This law isn't the only one. At this point, the state budget is set aside for housing construction of about 300 million kuna. As we have heard from the Minister for these thousands of loans that would be issued under this law, it is then about $17.5 million a year or approximately 75 million in four years if we did not continue until the year. I appeal to Mr. Minister that we continue this measure next year so that next year it will still be 17,5 and next year it will be 35 million kunas in the state budget, etc., etc. So in four years it would take only two years for this law to last, and I would like it to last, then in four years or five years, it would take about 150 million kuna to implement this law in at least two years. But I'm saying I think it would be a good idea for this to continue as a measure because believe me, there is not a single law that, in a short time, has won as well as this law and as the law that was in force six years ago. I'll tell you the comparison, the encouraging housing as a project that took place in 2002 in the last 15 years in this project where we included a very large number of institutions, were local self-government units, whether it was APN, Ministry, etc., etc. Six thousand apartments sold. So six thousand apartments were sold throughout the POS project in 15 years. It's about 400 apartments a year. A large POS on which we must engage huge funds, where units of local self-government, public enterprises, etc. are engaged. You have sold over 15 years or in that system six thousand apartments have been solved. In a law that preceded this law that this law relied practically in two years, 2.5 thousand dwellings, which cost less. And not to say that POS is a ghettoization because you in POS have to take the apartment where it's built, you can't choose. Not a young man if he wants to buy a Posa apartment in Zagreb but probably go to Sopnica-Jekovec or someone else or to Lanište I don't know where this Posova building exists. According to this law, you can buy an apartment and a house in Brac as the minister said earlier in Korčula both in Ilok and Zagreb and in Varazdin and an even better quality measure that allows you to resolve your living issue. Therefore, I want to say I am neither against POS, but for this it should not be seen as being the only measure in Croatia. There's a third measure, maybe the best of all, that's a measure of housing savings. I resent that, I resented it when I was an opposition representative of the SDP government because it drastically reduced the state's incentives to housing savings. We are in 2011 to promote housing savings, and housing savings is in Central Europe countries, which also belong to one of the most important measures to promote housing, to address the housing issue. And that's the project where the lowest interest rates are. While interest rates are the lowest, the state gives its incentives to saving. Therefore, when you observe these three measures and this is this law, when you are still watching POS, therefore encouraged housing and when you observe housing savings, it is in Croatia 300 million kunas from the budget. Those aren't small funds. These are not small funds, but when we observe how many measures there are, then we think that mainly when it comes to resolving the housing issue, our young citizens have a good choice. But first and foremost, to get someone into this project, to get someone into this project, to get someone into the POS project, that's to raise credit. And in order to take up credit, he has to be employed. Therefore, we cannot observe this measure and fully separate from other government measures, which the government is implementing to encourage employment in Croatia. The prerequisite for someone to enter this project must have a contract to work indefinitely. So, Mr. Minister, given the fact that we are in a legal sense on the market, that no one's job is 100% certain, that you should consider until the second reading and the fact that during the duration of this measure of 4 years, the state guarantees if it remains, if the credit user remains without a job to pay him interest. That's not a big amount, but here's the thing. Think about it. Is that possible? Perhaps the measure would reduce an even more effective interest rate and because the bank would be guaranteed if the creditor paid only interest for 4 years until the credit user found another job and decided how and in what way to pay this war that is scheduled. So anyway, we support this law. We especially support it in the part where it is expanded. He's extended to building houses. It is for rural areas or areas where there is no intensive building of residential, multi-state units and very good. That's especially good, I say where such opportunities for buying apartments don't mean that people who live where they come from, where they're born, that they can go into this project to secure their funds, subsidize the construction of their buildings, that's very good, and I very much support it. It's good and I support that the difference compared to the first law, which is a reduction in the number of years, a decrease in the number of years from 20 to 15, a minimum number of years as long as there has to be a period of duration of credit, because that makes it even more subsidized in a certain way. And bigger because they're clear when it's a smaller repayment period then the wars are bigger and then clearly and the subsidies of the state are bigger for that part. Therefore, and I support that, and I think that, if the law were good, it could be upgraded, we heard a few more here very user suggestions and remarks but what would be good would be a good thing that the law would take more than one or two years, because you will see as soon as a public call by APN to the banks that the banks will come forward. That after that, when a public call is announced to the banks, the requests for the use of subsidized loans by the APN will be very soon, and I think that, perhaps in this year, the ministry will be able to redistribute the funds in such a way as not to be 17,500 as planned but to be significant more because in this way, many of our young citizens would be able to resolve one of the most important issues and that is the issue of their own apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37221	Thank you. We have several replicas on your exhibit. He is the first representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37222	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So on the trail of this story I was telling earlier, you're a colleague of Bacic's at one point telling him that this could raise the construction sector. So this is such a small project with the respect of a thousand families that will profit from this program. What I didn't say earlier, so with this being cut off, it's a relief, a sales tax for the first real estate that, according to this account, costs 4000 euros, so it's a bigger cost for all the young families who buy the first real estate. 4000 euros must give more or even 5 if there was no reduction in the rate compared to what was before 1.1.2017. We have another problem, and that's a real estate tax announcement going on since 1.1.2018, where we assume you're talking about, when you're talking about building, you're talking about new real estate for these young people that they're going to pay 50% more real estate taxes on this new property than those who eventually buy an old, older real estate. So coefficient 1 falls to 0.8 for old real estate and grows to 1.2 for new real estate. Therefore, 1.2 over 0.8 is 1.5 and 50% higher tax than the old real estate. So two new burdens for these young families. That wasn't necessary. And we will certainly have an opportunity here, I hope, to speak further on the subject of real estate tax which is not what has been announced and we must also consider it within this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37223	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37224	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Greek, I didn't realize whether you stood up for today or not to advocate a real estate tax. It seems to me while you were in the government that you supported the adoption of a real estate tax. It seems to me while you were in the government that you supported the adoption of a real estate tax. We argue, this government argues that real estate tax will be practically a substitute for municipal compensation and that at that level it will also be the level of real estate tax for one real estate, so for one real estate. As for the sales tax on real estate which has been abolished, it is on the one hand and reduced. The rate has been reduced from five to four percent, but on the other hand, it is through this measure that the owner, the future owner of the apartment by the state, will receive a refund because he was introduced a property tax. But it's not exactly 1,000 apartments. I think that, I know when the 2011 law was passed that there were about 8,000 unsold apartments in Croatia, 8,000 unsold apartments. I don't know the exact information. I think it was published by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or released by the HUP as many unsold apartments in Croatia today, but 1000 unsold apartments will be safe, will reduce the fund of unsold apartments in Croatia and encourage to a certain extent new housing building.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37225	Thank you. Next replica, Tomislav Liposcak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37226	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleague Bacic. Well, right at the beginning, I actually have to say that I welcome a bill like this. First of all, from the perspective of young families and those families that are in front, in fact, in front of the very foundation of the family. Such a legislative proposal, with a favourable effective interest rate, also enables the co-financing of half the amount of annuity in the first four years of repayment of the loan, also with an additional possibility of extending the subsidy period depending on the number of children or the degree of disability. Of course, we are all aware that there is no individual legal solution, that is, some magic wand that we could solve in the first row the burning problems of demographics, or emigration. However, we see that, with already launched and announced measures, both governments and certain ministries in the first order of demographics and work and pension systems, this is actually only one part of the mosaics that we understand, i.e. puzzles that gradually agree, and all in terms of overcoming these negative trends of emigration and socialism. The aid in paying off the loan from, in this case, at least 7% is not negligible and as I was in this situation, believe me, such subsidies can often be the small yellow weight on the scale that we know to tell which ones will exceed in the young families who want to stay in their environments, in their villages, in their municipalities to stay here, start a family and start to build or buy first properties especially in those first years that are most sensitive precisely because of the expansion of family or equipment of the house, apartment and so forth. And finally, this 17-and-a-half million kuna fund for 2017 should in no way be seen as a budget cost. So we should view them as a stock and a stake for a better tomorrow, with the possibility of, of course, a proper and fair redistribution of those funds, possible criteria, and, of course, the possibility of increasing those funds if possible in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37227	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37228	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm signing everything you said to a fellow Liposchack. I agree with you that this should not be regarded as a cost. However, this is one of the encouraging measures for Croatia's demographic reconstruction on the one hand, as the minister of social action said. I believe that the minister and the government, but all of us together, would be happy if the amount was further increased by 17 and a half million kuna and if the sum of these funds were to be directed towards the construction of new houses in Croatia, even less than to the residential construction because it would mean that a large part of the funds were being sent to places outside large cities, large centres where in fact the largest number of unsold apartments. So in that part, this measure that speaks of encouraging and subsidising housing loans for the construction of new houses is still very welcome. And in that sense, I couldn't agree more with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37229	Next replica representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37230	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you said earlier that the state must think of the contractors of construction. I would say, the state should not think, the state should only introduce one rule and strategy and respect and relations between construction firms and all other companies in the state to make order. I consider this now that it's been construction these years if it was a leap of construction, I'd call it a jump because they jumped into construction, but they're not real builders. So the truth was destroyed by some healthy companies that could work in Croatia. But we're all going to do something quick, not strategically do something that's good. The second thing is, is this bill if we're just setting up 1,000 loans, we don't go back to banks that already have unsold apartments, so that these apartments don't sell and help banks again, which I think is okay. But not with the interest we had just before, and Professor Lovrinovic said between 0.5 and 2% in kuna loans. And third thing, if we want to do a first real estate service, we need to cancel the first real estate tax as it used to be. It's already a first-time service and no other benefits I don't think it should be, with interest in kunas being given from 0.5 to 0.2, and you've already helped a thousand, thousands of young people who are homeless and who would stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37231	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37232	Thank you, Madam Vice President. When I was talking about the state of construction, I looked back at the number of employees in 2008, so that cross year when it seems like a big part to me, it doesn't seem to me, but I'm sure a lot of construction workers were engaged in low construction, and there was a time for intensive construction of road construction in Croatia that then stopped. And I agree with you what you called a jump construction. In fact, a large part of the companies that were engaged in low construction practically went bankrupt. And a number of low-building employees who have now lost their jobs or gone outside of Croatia have ended up in what you have called in the establishment of a number of companies that have then come to the market and in a certain way ruined the market. But as construction first recognizes the crisis, construction is what first comes out of the crisis. If you look at it now in 2016, I don't think the DZS has yet provided accurate data, but according to data for the first six months, 32% is in 2016 32% more approved construction than in 2015 at the same time. I think, according to preliminary indicators, that for the whole of 2016, about 22% more of the building permits were issued than they were issued in 2015. Therefore, as construction first comes into crisis, what comes out of it first, and I am convinced that just so many of the building approvals issued will pull back and increase the number of construction workers. And I repeat, I believe that this measure is a poor drop, not a drop, but a contribution to the revitalization of Croatian construction. And I fully agree with you that it is necessary to arrange for what you said not to happen practically to that black market.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37233	Thank you. Next representative of Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37234	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Bačić, I agree fully with your debate and with everything you have stated, including some of the suggestions that you have made to improve this law until the second reading. Given that the purpose of this law is to bring it forward in order to overcome adverse conditions and help citizens, I must express my special satisfaction that it allows people with disabilities to subsidise loans for five years, so not like other citizens for four years. And the only thing I could say here is the same for the purpose of improving this provision in Article 12, which is that I think, and I have to say about the initiative of persons with disabilities who have already read this law, so they said it was important to say, that this provision could be further improved in the same way as the provision of Article 13 relating to additional co-financing. So, if within four years there is a disability in the family which is a terrible thing, I would say birth is a joy, and disability is not exactly and I think it is extremely necessary then to further help such families or users of credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37235	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37236	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree, colleague Lukacic. I think on your proposal, that you are the proposing provision of Article 13 if I am not mistaken, where people with disabilities are allowed to have their subsidy for another year and that is indeed to welcome them. You and the Assembly daily propose measures that contribute to improving the quality of life of people with disabilities. In this sense, Mr. Minister is not a second reading but is a first reading, there is no amendment, but what my colleague Ljubica said and pulled analogy with a provision that allows for an increase in the number of children during the period of the subsidy, which probably no one would want but it is certain, but that in this way another extra step would be made to facilitate the living conditions of people with disabilities. And on that trail, it might be good to explain in the second reading of the law what it means to increase the number of children in the family during which period and whether the number of children is even limited. I haven't finished reading it correctly, you probably have a solution to it, and later maybe you'll explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37237	Thank you. Next representative, Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37238	Dear Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic. Here's what you said is one of the measures of this government that wants to encourage the care of young families to come to housing, and that's what we need to understand in the frameworks of these budgetary possibilities is this was possible to do in this period, and that's the 17,5 million kuna. But what I would point out, and repeatedly mentioned, is the elimination of this 4% tax on real estate sales, and I don't think that this is so drastically and literally interpreted by some colleagues. In fact, if we consider that 100,000 euros is the value of this facility, then that relief would be only 4000 euros 4%. Since there is 6,66% of the total amount of credit to help this young family in this way, it is already in nominal amount, which is 6,660 euros almost 7 thousand euros, which is more than that of the 4% tax relief. So we have reason to promote and support this measure compared to the previous period. Also in the law itself, it is interesting that the limited value of real estate is up to 1,500 euros, so the recording of the situation on the ground is an average price of 1100 euros, and in this way it is limited to actually diversifying the prices and the rise of real estate prices that would have happened in case it did not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37239	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37240	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, I agree with you that this is more than compensation. Just one more addition. I'm not a banker, I'm not an economist, I'm an engineer. I don't think these 6.60s apply to the original, or the loan raised, that's much more, it refers to the total amount that the debtor should repay. So, I am, I know that in that law that this law is based on, at 100,000 euros, that was 14%. Me, perhaps later the representatives of the ministry or the minister will say it's not 6.60, but I think it's 11 or 12%. Thus, three times more will be obtained through this law, i.e. be subsidized to the person who took the loan than it has been practically reduced by tax changes, i.e. the expenditure of 4% on the value of the property. So it's not just 6.6, but it seems to me that somewhere around 11 or 12% of the funds will be in relation to the loan raised. A or 6,60 to the total amount the debtor must repay to the bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37241	Thank you. And another replica of the mistress Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37242	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Mr. Bacic, I welcome the proposal of this law, where citizens are primarily allowed to resolve their housing issue under favourable conditions. I particularly welcome this measure in order to encourage demographic renewal to extend the credit subsidisation deadline for each child born for the next two years, especially for areas where many residents such as Slavonia are emigrated. Here's me to mention one piece of information for my Ship-Posavina County. Last year 330 students were enrolled less in primary schools, there are exclusive towns of Slavonski Brod, meaning the town of Nova Gradiška only schools where the founder of Brod-Posavina County is. And in high school, it's 841 students. Of course, I welcome every measure and this one where the survival and survival of young people will be possible, in particular, the measures in this bill, which concern rural areas and areas of Slavonia where here, I have already noted every day that more and more young people are evicting.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37243	Thank you. Replication response. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37244	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Maximchuk, thank you for wanting to say something on behalf of the club and I forgot to say it and I wrote it while I was listening to the presentations before me. This law establishes a maximum effective interest rate of 3.75. There was, and there was fear of me indiscriminately during the debate this morning that after four years, the interest rate would then jump and that it could increase significantly. Namely, he can't. Why? Because the law is limited that after 4 years, a maximum of 10% of the interest rate can be 0.375, so after 4 years, the maximum rate can be 4.13, 4.13, so that's still an acceptable interest, it would be better if it was much smaller but it couldn't even jump. Otherwise, I have to tell you that people who took credit under the 2011 law today have an interest rate of 2.92%, 2.92%, so according to the law that was in force. And I am convinced that, through the realisation of this law, if nothing is important on the market, the financial market will not change that it will not increase the interest rate and the more it is limited by this law. That's what's important to say. So this law is she restricted she can't go over 4.13. So in that part, the banks will agree to that because they will make a public call. That bank that... Call a public call, which will announce APN accepts the terms of this law and can not then say after 8 years if the situation on the market has changed now, Croatia is a risky state, now we will go to 8%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can't because in 2017 you made a commitment to an interest rate of 3.75 which after 4 years can only grow another 0.375. And that's what I was gonna say just not on behalf of the club dropped it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37245	Thank you. The next club is SDSS Representative Club, representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37246	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. I'll tell the SDSS's position on this proposal of the House Loan Subsidisation Act. And, of course, I'm not a financial expert as colleagues who have been very competent to discuss the financial aspects of this law and I'm not going to risk that zone, but I'm going to talk, try to speak from the position of a club that has had some experience because it represents a population that's been very poor in the conduct of housing policy over the past years, according to which one consistent policy has been that they should be taken away from their apartments, or taken away from former tenants. And I'll talk about it later. And that's why the feeling of fear and feelings of staying without an apartment as a living existential space we support this concept. We support any idea that says we need to talk about strengthening housing policy because every state, modern state or less modern state that wants to get close to citizens rather than to some primarily corporate capital, etc., but therefore must have a very developed social, health policy, education policy and housing policy for citizens. These are some elements towards which the state manifests a relationship with its citizens. So, in the objectives of the Proposer here defined, and the objectives are clearly quite realistic, objective, concrete and fair to stop emigration, to increase demographic natality. Now, if this were a magic formula so that the Ossetian would no longer be in Dublin but on the corn in Osijek, then this would be an extraordinary magic formula. However, my view, or our view of housing policy, is so and we think that housing policy is just a reflection of many factors in society. Among other things, a reflection of good or poor working policy, because you cannot expect someone to consume the possibilities of subsidisation from this bill unless he has a job, if this job is defined as work for a certain period of time, so his work relationship is interrupted every three months. Of course he can't be interested in the bank then, he's not bonitating. And clearly, in such situations when young people do what they do, they do it in a way that they don't have regular pay or that the employer pays them a minimum, and it gives them below the minimum on black. So these are not assumptions that can consume this legal advantage. That's why I'm saying that the real policy that you want to influence very well with these legal proposals will be predisposed by a number of other things in society that, of course, is not your area of action. The elements you suggested here like the duration of this benefit for four years, interest rate 3.75, half of the war is paid by the state, etc. A one-year bonus for disabled people over 50% or for every child born a two-year bonus is a thing that we can support, a very well-designed concept. And we support it, but I'm still going to say a few of our thoughts about the model itself. We think, above all, that they are as disputable as some colleagues said at the outset, the criteria themselves that they will consume this benefit of subsidising credit by the users. The criteria are clearly set here. The age of 45 is maximum. Young married couples, singles. I guess that's what it wants to stimulate the fact that if they get an apartment, then I guess it'll be easier to find a partner or I don't know, and you can't own a property except one property that has to be sold if you want to buy a bigger property. That's what I'm saying for the public to know about what the criteria are, and there's this vacuum that you need to do for us. Therefore, the methodology for coming into competition as it comes to the position to be, that the subsidy is not fixed. The colleagues said it was the principle of who before the girl his girlfriend, because starting from the moment it was announced in the public ballots the beginning of the open competition. And if that's the case, it's not good. Such a quick application does not depend on the quality of the person but, that is, the user of the loan, will favour in our opinion those committees, those interested young people interested in buying an apartment that will make the job easier with the bank. So those who have more attractive real estate, which is more attractive for the bank in terms of mortgages as a guarantee of payment. Those who have a stronger rating in the sense that they have an attractive job if it's a public service user who has a secure job. He will certainly be more interesting to the bank than even parliamentary representatives. Let's just say that as agents, it's hard to get a housing loan because we're working for a certain time. After the term of office, the bank will not speak to you. But if I'm some kind of public system clerk, I'm interesting for the bank. Therefore, and whoever solves all of these earlier, the paper will be dealt with in total. So he'll take it and he'll be favored in some way. And we think that this criterion may need to be stepped up in some way and we expect the minister to use his own rulebook to fill in some kind of void. We also have the fact that the limit for subsidising the purchase of real estate is up to 100,000 euros. So if someone buys a real estate of over 100,000 euros, then that part doesn't subsidize him. Now the question arises again I think that such a customer will be more interesting to the bank, that it will be favored by the bank, the creditor will be favored because it is not the bank whether you will be giving a loan to some kind of garrisonier or you will raise for some property that has a market value of 200,000 euros. And one social question arises at all, do people who have decided to buy over 100,000 euros in real estate need this kind of subsidy? I really don't think you should. Someone who has the courage, who's got some kind of job that's got such a secure job, a well-paid job that can repay a 150 thousand-euro loan, I don't think it should be put in this subsidisation category. It should be a social category and a stimulating category for those buyers who are up to a certain middle value such as a two-room apartment of 50,000 euros. That's ours, that's our opinion. The next thing I want to point out is the funding factor for this whole project. My colleagues already said, "I'll do it again." We had an extraordinary measure that was a permanent character, a measure of exemption from first real estate tax. It was calculated that the country's expected income with the abolition of the first real estate tax measure would have earned around 115 million kuna. This law which we now wish to subsidise thousands of housing units of the state invests in this entire project 17 and a half million kuna. So we're definitely one lasting measure that had one stimulating, lasting character replaced by a one-time measure that in fiscal terms, some kind of financial sense would be much more exaggerating, significantly smaller, will have less effect. So it is our suggestion that the funds that have been made out of this lasting measure that are coming in by abolishing the first real estate tax and creating some mass of hundreds of millions of kunas that these funds are then put into this measure and that this subsidisation is not a one-time thing but a permanent business, and then it has some logic in us. For some of our companies, it should be said that income from buying taxes from these thousands of housing units of the state will have to be paid taxes because there is no tax exemption, the state will earn a new 90 million kuna, and I repeat again in this whole thing has invested 17,5 million kuna. So this measure will make the state financially, and among other things there is nothing to hide, is being sent at this moment and a very interesting pre-election message. The third thing I'd like to say here is that what we have left with one questionnaire is very important, the whole business is run by APN, the Real Estate Agency, and it's one big deal that we give them, they need to run all these jobs, they need to evaluate the contract, they need to monitor the execution of these contracts, the payment methods, etc. And the question arises is whether the APN is now capacitated to do this job, to implement this law. Given the fact that it's here I can say that APN works so buys out real estate by order of the State Department of Housing and we have information that still somewhere around three thousand housing units the APN hasn't bought. I'm asking how the APN will do more work from tracking down some of these new thousands of credit arrangements. I don't think the APN at this point has been capacitated for such a job. And finally something about housing policy I would say, so this is a good measure, but in our view it's kind of a firehouse, so it should be a housing policy besides POS and housing should be filled in with even longer-term measures if we want to have one serious developmental housing policy. I'll just point out some serious politicians have been saying in time that the housing policy from the former system is a freak, but I will remind here that in that period the Republic of Croatia built such a housing policy 393,242 social housing and that there was then a paradigm, one concept that every citizen has a roof over his head. It's the essence of the state's housing policy that has a vision of it all. Of course, these apartments were bought, they were bought out of what rules were at that time 10 to 15% of the market value in long-term payment meals with many discounts, etc. And the respected professor Bežovan made one statistic where he said it was '91. Some 250 thousand dwellings were purchased from that category, which is a total of 63% of the housing fund, and in 2004 317,831 so-called "bought". Social housing. So that's one mass that should have been created in some way. Why am I saying that? I'm talking because there's a category of people of former tenants who today in 2017 haven't solved the fact that they bought these apartments. They did not settle because they were not allowed to do so, nor did they solve it because the price now offered is very high. So the ethlon value of buying these apartments is moving about 900 euros per square metre. So they would have to give about 45 thousand euros for a 50-square apartment. Today, people of former tenants who demand to buy the apartment under these conditions can buy it with all bonuses, reductions, etc. This level value goes down to some 650 to 500 euros today and it's still a very high price since some of these people haven't even come out of their apartment their whole life, since they've built this apartment in the way that once there was a savings, so they've funded it again and now they're the same people we're charging and asking them to buy apartments at such a high price. So that's a thing that's not good. And that's why I would suggest a minister because it's the sole competence of your ministry to consider that this etalan value is adjusted and to allow these people to come to buy apartments at some speedy time because I'm going to tell you that there are still around 2,760 demands. There are most of them in the town of Zagreb, and then there are them in Split-Dalmatia County, Zadar 260 and Karlovac 400 etc. So 2,760 of these cases should be solved. So I'm asking if, besides all the work the APN is doing, it's possible that the APN is doing quality work and this job that is going to get now with this legal solution? And I will only end up, so in my private ownership, there are some data that has about a million 225 housing units, protected tens of thousands and tens of tens of thousands and by the number of residential units owned by the Republic of Croatia, is among the first countries in the EU, meaning by the fact of private ownership, which is very good, therefore very good indicator. We'll support this bill of yours in front of the SDSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37247	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. She is the first representative of Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37248	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Horvat, you have excellently detected the entire background story behind this bill's proposal in the fact that by introducing the first property tax of 4%, which has so far been in force for young families and individuals entering into the purchase of the first estate of 115 million kuna, and when it abolished that privilege that young families and individuals had, she said she would compensate for the damage that was done just by proposing a new law. However, we now see that this damage is not compensated but that through this aiding, or subsidisation of the purchase of the first property, the state returns only 17.5 million kuna to young families and individuals. The question arises as to why the state did not get the strength and instead of these 1,000 families and individuals actually returned what belonged to them, so today we could discuss these privileged measures for 6500 families. I fully agree with you that the criteria are quite unclear, that it is not clear how the list of championships will be established. And I would absolutely not like for this measure to be misused and that the thesis we had in our time about 200 wealthy families to be obtained through this case by a thousand by some strange or not clearly prescribed criteria of selected families who would be fortunate to have the state helping them buy an apartment. And on the other hand, we've seen how many families and individuals are damaged, much larger bases than these thousands that have been deprived of the opportunity to use the privilege and be freed from paying taxes on buying the first real estate. There's a lot of strangers here. I am, and I appeal this way to the legislators to think well about everything until the second reading and, above all, to return what has been taken and that this measure covers a much, much larger pool than a thousand, a thousand... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37249	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37250	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with your thesis. So I said here that the criteria are quite vague and I expect that the Proposer, therefore there is no reason not to do so, will take into account all of our suggestions and will once again comb the way and define its acts, so not by this law, can be done by regulation this way that will give greater safety to people, that there will be some kind of social criterion in choosing, in the first place, a choice for subsidisation. So, those people who are willing to buy a property worth more than 100,000 euros and who have the right under this law absolutely to compete and even to be first on the list since they first applied for them not to be in that front row. So the priority is to put really on those objects that young people can really buy. You can't expect a young man to buy a real estate of 100,000 euros if he doesn't have enough to live for, etc. And he's afraid to start a family because of suspense, suspenseful work, etc. So these limited ones, I repeat again over 100,000 euros, can happen that a father in a large business has two children and says listen, come on, each of you will buy an apartment and the state will subsidize it, which is perfectly legitimate to this legal solution but the question is whether the legislator wanted to achieve exactly that or whether he wanted to enable young people who can buy a two-bedroom apartment to help them do so. So in that sense, I was well-intentioned only to suggest that the whole thing should be searched a little bit more. Otherwise, the concept of helping in this way is totally acceptable to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37251	Thank you. And Branko Greek, another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37252	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, here I would just like to repeat, thank you and fellow Horvato for once again very vividly saying, so what I have previously observed. So for these 1,000 young families, one-time and quite selectively planned to use 17,5 million kuna subsidies at the annual level. And according to certain projections, the abolition of the real estate tax relief actually means additional revenue for the country over 100 million kuna. And that's what I want to do again. Therefore, this model will make a very limited and selective profit or gain some 1000 families and thousands of other Croatian young families will not even have the opportunity to access these subsidies, and it will also have this damage to say from at least 4 000 euros per 100 thousand euros in loans or the value of the apartment due to the elimination of the tax on real estate. And that is the essence of this whole story that the government has not consistently entered into solving this problem and every move that goes in that direction is nevertheless desirable and we all need to support it. But this way, no. If you're going so selectively, then really, what fellow Horvat has now said in response to the replica, then you have to introduce additional criteria. If this is the situation, if it goes this closely, then the social criteria must dominate this programme. They're not here right now. And I'm asking you to do something about it until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37253	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37254	So the esteemed colleague of Greece, so the data, I believe, is correct, says that by removing the first real estate tax, one mass of funds from some 115 million kuna has been made. When we discussed the abolition of this particular measure, we were not having a public projection that would be so serious money, it was said to be less money, that it was almost insignificant aid to those who buy real estate and insignificant profit for the state. We see that it's not such a meaningless profit. And ours is precisely a suggestion that those funds, which the state has earned by not abolishing, did not release from paying taxes the first real estate to reroute exactly to the execution of this law. So this subsidy measure is not a one-time measure under this law because it is conceived so that it is consumed after the purchase of thousands of apartments, or by a thousand loans. And behind that, we're looking at commercials up to the end of the supply system. So don't let that be the end of the stock, until the end of the funds, but rather a lasting measure to be financed from this part of the assets that the state has received by abolishing the first real estate tax. And I think that makes some sense, and then I think that this one of yours, and then this one of yours, then this one of yours, is going to get a real form that you believe you wanted to get yourself. So, that this temporary measure from your legal proposal to subsidize half the war to make the loan a permanent measure, and it can be financed from these funds that I said, which the state now refers to from the tax on first real estate sales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37255	Thank you. The next club is HNS, HSU representative of Christmas Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37256	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. In principle, we in HNS are always opposed to short-term measures, and this is precisely about a short-term measure because it ceases to apply in 2021. Assets have been limited, 1000 loans have been estimated to be in that period. We believe we had a good measure when it was a relief from paying real estate taxes. It covered a far wider circle of people. However, it is estimated here by ruling to go into making a new law, that it should be helped, that it was not enough and that it did not stimulate young people to stay in Croatia. And the main reason is that it is precisely one of the significant demographic measures. We don't think so, because imagine who's leaving Croatia now? Those who do not have employment, whose wages are so low they cannot cover their basic needs, that they do not have to start a family and they leave. Will they be able to buy an apartment or a house with such conditions? It won't be safe. And what else do we have here that pleases us here? It's suitable for banks, because it's strictly credited, credit-subsidisation. It's not some other measure, it's another aid, it's a loan. So, the first and basic condition of those who have good, secure receipts will be able to borrow you, will help the state, the banks get their interest and those others who are listed as doing this law because of them and that we are giving this proposal to the law on subsidisation of residential loans, they will not have much or nothing. And we're going back to what that property is. What is this property that we stimulate here and what do we point out? Here is my colleague Horvat stated that we were the first in Croatia to own real estate, and by introducing real estate taxes we stressed that we were really specific and that our citizens' savings were in real estate not in money, not in bonds, not in shares, but in real estate. And we're now introducing taxation of these properties, and there's a whole other story here that would just stimulate property as the only form of retaining these young people here in our area. So we're not saying it's going to be building apartments from a particular fund, so renting these apartments or some other more acceptable way, but we're just stimulating property. And if we already want this law, if we want to help these young people solve their housing issues, we talk about rural areas, where there are hundreds of empty houses. Among other things, there are empty homes from parents who are inherited, but these facilities will not benefit from these loans. So, for someone to inherit that house so that they can come back, that they can change the roof, that they can arrange the walls, that they can bring the house into a state that they can live in. For Article 7 states that subsidisation of loans taken by a citizen from a credit institution for the purchase of an apartment or a house, i.e. building a house for the purpose of resolving a housing issue. So it is not considered that someone solves their living issue if he inherits a frat house and can't live in but with a certain amount he can bring her in to be similar to the apartment. So, I suggest that if we go to solve this problem, then we take those housing loans as defined by the banks, because the banks also have and consider that a housing loan and a loan that serves to arrange the house and not just to buy a house or an apartment or a building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37257	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37258	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Replica, dear colleague, Professor Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37259	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this time one technical remark, I don't know if I'm right even. A colleague earlier in her address said that this law actually ends in 2021, so it is written somewhere in the transitional provisions. However, I wonder, so this is a purely rhetorical question for you, the law would have to be in force as long as some subsidy is paid out of the budget. Otherwise, I don't know how the budget will reserve funds unless the funds are tied to a certain law. And in 2021, definitely the law can't break its validity because the payments will be in '18, '19, '20, '21. and then another for the child one, the child another, for the disabled additionally, etc., etc. So you have to do a little bit of correcting it from the technical aspect that doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37260	I thank my esteemed colleague, Greek. The replica was on display with a colleague named Makar. Since we don't have a colleague, we're moving on to the debate. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues from the Department of Construction. Here we talked a lot today about the issue of housing policy and how to solve it through certain legal solutions. So I would somehow try to sum up a lot of open questions today. All of us are here to support some of the measures that will prevent, prevent the outflow of young people abroad and prevent further eviction, improve nationality. And then now the question is whether only this only measure will be enough for that. We do not doubt the government's good intentions to try to achieve this through this law. I'm just going to have a few questions here that we've actually heard here today through the very replicas and through the presentations of our colleagues is a matter of criteria. That's what's been bothering us a lot here today about the criteria, which, under which conditions can get this kind of subsidized loan and, or good certain aid from the state, and whether it's represented in a clear and transparent way or we're going to sort of define that there are so many resources in the budget. Well, as far as I understand it here is 17,5 million but half-years, so here if we talk about an annual amount of about 35 million kuna, it means in that kind of period about 130, 140 million kuna and the question is whether it's enough to stop one moving process and whether this part of the housing policy is going to stop that part. We know that through other laws or other areas, I define myself from housing policy, and we know that this is also about the House Savings Act where the state is also somewhere around 50 million kunas per year subsidized form of housing savings and forms, in such a way, and savings, such a way of resolving the housing issue. So there's the so-called. POS's apartments, so now this form of funding, subsidizing these housing loans. So here on and through laws and also on the market there are different forms of stimulation but primarily ownership. And that's the open question here, and we know that next year we're getting real estate tax, and we know that it's going to be the source of local community income. We know that a few months ago we also changed the tax policy where certain reliefs for the first real estate were lifted. And so, there's a lot to talk about. We also know that in 2005, the prices of the apartment markets in Croatia, '04, blew that balloon by 2008. And in fact, if Croatia had had a crisis, it didn't have a crisis banking crisis like the United States, as the UK had had, but had a crisis of a blow-up balloon, a real-estate balloon where everyone was actually part of it involved, banks and financed and that the prices of the real estate market were going up and that simply the whole system that was to finance it was simply not suitable for that funding. And when the first crisis occurred, this six-year recession that we were in, in fact, was primarily the result of the price balloon that we had in the real estate market and where citizens not only had in the real estate market and where citizens not only had currency risk, interest risk but also had a risk of falling property value. There are certain studies of relevant institutions that actually speak in terms of income that have nationals of a particular country as to how much these real estate prices should be moved. And when they analyzed Croatia, they saw that we are actually in one area of very high overestimation of real estate. So here you speak about 1,100 euros per metre square in the introduction, somewhere from 1500 on the Adriatic and so on in different parts, in Zagreb somewhere in 2000. However, the study showed for income countries such as Croatia that the simple population does not have enough income to pay for such a high price of real estate to resolve its specific housing issue. So they put us somewhere that some real market price of real estate in Croatia, that given the income that we are earning, given the income that we have a large majority of citizens, and we know that the average income in the Republic of Croatia is not 5500 or that it is a certain arithmetic environment that shows, in fact, not exactly a picture of income in Croatia, but that it is much lower. And that's the IRS data that showed that almost 70, 80% of the people in Croatia as regards their income are located somewhere, up to about three and a half to four thousand kunas. And when you take the price of real estate, and to solve a certain housing issue, some calculations were that somewhere between 800 and 900 euros per square square cent in Croatia would be some price where, when it comes to income, it could be durable for citizens to pay their apartments neatly. And imagine, here today we're talking about 1500, meaning twice as much as the estimate that Croatian income, the average Croatian citizen, can repay it. And then it's normal for the government, and there are no risks involved, currency risks like the Swiss franc's currency risk. Not even the interest risk is included, which is very well shown here by a colleague Lovrinović, which means if you finance your property with 2% interest, which means if with 6% and especially if it is in a different currency. And the overall risks of business, we have repeatedly said, the overall risks of housing policy in the Republic of Croatia and the currency risk and interest risk and the risk of a fall in real estate value because in fact this property is the only one serving as a particular colleleteral. Because when you can't just return that property, your bank account is much lower than that price is actually on the citizens. It is located, so all the risks of the management that banks should actually finance, the entire banking system and monetary policy are on the burden of citizens, and we are trying to take some intervention measures and this is one of these measures affecting that particular housing policy to bring about some balance. It means it's going to be very difficult with this law, even though I say I don't doubt the government's intensities to deal with these issues. Unless we are truly solving these issues, and these are real real estate market issues how this was financed, under what conditions. And look, that's just how it was. So we didn't inherit anything that we invented. This was true in the United States of Great Britain, a number of European countries when two thousand of them began to build there, the fourth one began to be funded by builders very much and made these properties. It was a big push for apartments, the bankers formed such models that they thought were sustainable, but it turned out in the first crisis that these models were not sustainable. That's what it turned out to be. And then again, the government had to intervene, not only with the Swiss Frank Act, but also with other laws, the government had to intervene. So this property issue, and we know that Croatia is somewhere over 90% that we like to have certain properties, is simply our tradition. And the question of the rental market needs to be opened up, which here, colleague Mrak-Taritash, is actually starting to speak. So a much wider question needs to be looked at than just a certain part of the law that I'm telling you openly is quite correct about the interest rate that you've restricted somewhere to 3.75. But like a colleague said, it would be good to fix that part. Why? Because if we know, and that's what they often tell us both in banking and in the CNB that the price, for a long time the price couldn't be low because, as a result, the state owed itself dearly. It's been a public mantra for a long time. It can't be given to citizens cheaper, but that's what the state owes 6.7%. Here was a recently co-worker, Minister Maric, who carried out a euro bond transaction. Never cheaper government debt, anywhere from two to two and a half percent. And now the question arises how did these interest rates that were all along say that this included the risk of the state not falling interest rates particularly on housing issues, especially if we know that the largest part of the money that is actually in the banks that is the source of payments is actually saving Croatian citizens at which they are paid from 0.5% to 0.5% of the interest rate. So in this case, if the interest is 3.75 as well, the banks will come out in very, as in favour of moving towards the citizens they certainly have a 300-point margin, or somewhere 3% because the sources are very low. So this question raises the question of definition and interest rates itself, and here we are actually colleagues from the SNAGA have defined what is the interest rate and how it is formed and whether this is how a certain limit will be set. However, I think there is much more room for this interest rate to have space and must be fixed, minimum meaning fixed must be, must be the Croatian kuna we were saying. Because if the government finances with kunas, co-financed projects like this they should be kuna, so that we can show that the national currency is also favoured in this way. Here a question has been raised, a regional issue of this kind of housing and the financing of a large number of Croatian citizens who do not live let's say only in Zagreb. And there should open a certain question of whether to finance. I am telling you with these criteria, I don't know two or three properties located in Slavonia or any other areas or finance one property of 1500 euros located in Zagreb. So I think these additional criteria, whether they're going to be defined through a rulebook or certain divisions of that money that we agree would be useful to one who goes into a certain part of the housing policy, but the criteria here are very important. So it's not even a certain part of the money, an interest rate, a certain part of the manual in that part, especially if we're going to define that they're rabbit and that they're fixed, but in defining the criteria and regional presence, I think it's more when trying to see where most of the young people are going from, they're leaving right out of Slavonia or from those specific areas that aren't sufficiently developed. So technically with these issues, which my colleague, Greece, has also defined regarding the abolition of the relief is also a particular issue that I see here now trying to compensate, but the broader issue of housing policy and survival policy is a much wider issue, and not defining only through these laws is it we consider, and I say these are also studies that have shown that double the cost of housing for housing is being paid than it should be in our income so that these kind of interventions will be short-lived. The issue of unused real estate and untapped large number of property optics contained in banking balance sheets is also raised. For a long time, bankers said that they did not have a large share of real estate in their balance sheets, and later it turned out that there were many and unfinished apartments and apartments that had not been placed on the market because they simply did not want to go below a certain level of price to go out with these properties on the market, and there was ultimately a question and the CNB which we have known for a long time since 2009 and their reservation policy on these certain properties that balloon remained high for a long time. Only when the additional CNB interventions are on the reservation of a certain part of the property will that part of the balloon be slightly blown away. So the real state of things on the real estate market is that we think we should calm down, that we need to define what are the real prices and protect them. Not only through currency risk, interest risk, the risk of falling real estate value but also to open up the issue of rent, to co-finance and rent because it also defines the mobility of young people to eat property at the end, and you will see the next year when the property tax comes will become a burden, because you will have to pay in that part of the additional sources and if you do not have enough coverage for that property you can also create certain problems. So, as far as technical law and intent are concerned, we think it's correct, but as far as the criteria are concerned, we certainly hope for a second reading that the government will explain a little bit better in which ways someone will get that money, so that it's not the fastest finger and the first thousand that they get, and those who later fail to realize their own way of simply looking at that question. And what we always advocate is that it goes much wider, that it goes through a system issue, so maybe it's a certain tax relief when you have an apartment to have a tax relief on interest, and that part serves you it's sooner whether that part of the tax relief serves you when you pay for your housing so that it's used for all the citizens in Croatia, not just for these thousands. So we are more for some whole solutions especially that this issue of housing policies define more laws and this will be an additional law which unfortunately I am afraid will not solve the problems of leaving because it essentially does not solve problems, and this is a very high price still the price of squares in Croatia given the level of income that Croatian citizens achieve. So until the second reading, if these criteria improve, we'll think about it, so far we're restrained solely because of the way and transparency that this law will apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37262	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Boris Lalovec for this debate. We have several replicas, the first to appear for replica was the distinguished Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament of Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you spoke to your colleague Lalovac about the need for a systematic policy in housing, and if we really want to do something in demographic terms, I'm sorry that this government gave up the rental project because it would be much more favourable for our citizens, especially those who are low-paying powers. My question, if you have two people who have minimum wage, how will they repay this loan war? Not at all. After four years, these people have no chance of getting their loan back. Therefore, if this law is intended for those who are paid, then we have not done much and we did not aim well. On the other hand, you were talking here today, and you were talking about places where people are emigrating, so Slavonia, the character of places that are half empty to us, my question is, why would someone go to borrow a loan to buy a house in person or in Slavonia? There's no job, and if he gets it, it's a miserable pay. So what we have to do is solve the problem in the package, and it has to be designed to expand some economic activity, to create jobs for people to have the first predisposition to even want to go there. Well, the Slavons and the Licans don't leave because I don't feel like living there. No, they're leaving because they're out of work and they're getting it unfortunately low wages, they're receiving minimals. That's what we have to work on, or this law will really become just a problem and a burden to people. The apartments made first in Zagreb during the term of our government led by Minister Mrak Taritas were unfortunately sold in the last seven, eight months, which was wrong. So these are apartments that could be used for rent, so it was intended. If people had the option, they could buy these apartments, but when you put them into debt like this, where after four years they actually stay, regardless of the same interest. And I have a 20-year loan for a house of 7% interest, and I still haven't paid it back three thousand kunas of war. I'm asking you how it's going to pay someone who has one more time I'm going to say 2,600 so much to the one who gets the minimum wage. Don't these people have the right to their family?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37264	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs Milanka Opačić, on the line. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here you have well defined, or explained that people with low income and unfortunately a very large number of Croatian citizens can not get to the average salary that according to the calculation of the State Statistics Office in Croatia and the ratio of their income and burden on their salary compared to the price of squares is very high. And we're not here, so whoever solved his living issue through this bill, so he had to meet the credit conditions beyond this subsidy, right? So he's gonna come into the bank, the bank's gonna tell him, he's gonna give up his pay-outs, he's gonna tell him that you're satisfying the loan so you can get an apartment, and then he gets some stimulation and a subsidy. What those who cannot approach at all and cannot solve their elemental question at all, and we believe that property especially in the future because it will come from real estate tax, because actually developed countries, Germany, Switzerland, flee from ownership, flee from ownership. If you see Switzerland, it seems to me that only 30 to 4'% of their property is owned. The Germans 50 to 60%, we're the only ones and Romania over 90%, and we're the only ones and Romania over 90%. Because then that part burdens not only the maintenance of the system. Then we have, what's the problem later? We have a problem maintaining the property itself after 10, 15 years, and especially if we know that the prices of the property are unfortunately high, unfortunately they are high in terms of the income level that Croatian citizens earn. And such short-term measures, unfortunately, will not give the effect the government expects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37266	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37267	Dear colleague Lalovac, I don't know what kind of government it is that offers to subsidize other people's loans without being able to repay itself. The real deficit is constantly covered up, I don't know 1%, 0.5% is said to be the smallest deficit in history, and the truth is that huge amounts of credit over 35 billion kunas come toll and that the state has no place to settle them and that they're going to have to rise up for these huge figures. The entire policy of this government as well as this proposal shows that the government does not have a systematic systematic solution. That the government has access to all problems as a fireman who sees fire and not as a wise builder who builds a house on solid rock. Unfortunately, the fate of this government is the same as the fate of this law and it is a disaster for both of us and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37268	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37269	So you're talking about demographics and the government representing this law says this is one of the demographic measures. Whenever it comes to demographics, I think it's pointlessly politicized. HDZ accused Zoran Milanovic of eviction, the emigration was even increased during the government. HDZ announced a thousand euros for each newborn child as a demographic measure, none of it, pure politics. I am alone for every help to young families but I think there should be two goals, as far as possible and as fair as possible. It was fair at a time when there was a tax relief. Why? Because she's anonymous. Whoever went to buy the first apartment from young families, for example from an apartment of 100,000 euros, the tax was 5%, the government forgave him 5,000 euros, helped him with 5,000 euros. Whoever it is. Now it will be limited to 1,000 people as a principle of racing for a country in the Wild West. So whoever comes first and stabs the flag, that's his. And that's unclear, untransparent, and that's what bothers me. The scope is too small and there will be no trust. And when someone wins, say Mr. Brkic's nephew, they'll all say that's why Mr. Brkic intervened. And it's not, it doesn't have to be. It doesn't have to be. We're a small country. But doubt will be born and that suspicion will be hard to erase. So the worst thing about this law is that small coverage, of all 1,000 people, and we don't know by what criteria. Is that the one who answered first, but who's going to guarantee me that's not where someone snuck over the line? And that's why giving up tax relief and introducing this is a step back in transparency and trust in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37270	I thank my esteemed colleague, Nenad Stazic, on the replica. And an answer from a esteemed colleague of Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talked about the criteria and how they will be monitored later, watch out for article 31, APN once a year states to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a report on the implementation of this law. What does that mean? Government? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this Parliament actually passed this law, why don't we have it very clearly and transparently if APN, this report of 140 million kunas of the allocated funds isn't being discussed in the Parliament. And you have the very clear names and last names of those who got that particular money because it's not small money, it's 140 million kuna taxpayers, money. And why APN to the Croatian Parliament, to draw up a report, says this is those 1,000 people to whom the state gives half a month's war, paid, it's not small, it's not small, because today we know that people on the market still have interest rates that are more than 5% and these will have an interest rate of 3.75, so this will get a subsidy, so it will have much lower conditions. And I don't see any reason why when the government defined such a relationship with banks, the Croatian Parliament submits a report and says, this is the thousands of young people, scientists, professors, doctors and these and those, they have the right to say very clearly because it is public money that is financed by their obligation and there should be no, in fact, any later speculation. And in this way, it would be avoided if certain doubts were created in this way whether someone had received or not, under certain criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37272	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for his reply. The following came to the hearing from a respected counterpart, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, at first sight, this is a very good idea and one good thing for young families. I wish I could believe that idea, too, but I'm kind of a little suspicious of her, and I'll say why. I would believe that this is a systematic policy-making process and that this was planned by this government, that, for example, when asking the government to trust this government, it is now almost possible for the former government without support about five months ago, Mr. Prime Minister in the government's work programme to go in this direction and that this measure will be proposed to the Croatian Parliament. But it wasn't like that. There were only a whole series of other measures for young families, and this was not there. And what happened? So I'm gonna put the time back two, three months ago. So, during the debate on tax reform in this House when we of the opposition, all of our colleagues here pointed to the introduction of a tax on first real estate in tax reform of 5%, or 4 because of the decrease in the whole tax, then overnight during this debate the balloon was released as the government goes with some new measure of credit to young families. The measure was not prepared at all. At the first next inaugural in this House, we asked the prime minister who it would include, what it would be, what it would be. He didn't know the answer, because this was done as a fire strike to compensate for a media negative reaction to young families by introducing first-real tax. And what are the concrete objections to me on this one, on the proposal of this law, is this. So first, this measure includes young families and this shows why it is not a systematic policy, a policy with a head and tail run by this government, which is that this measure includes young families up to 45 years of age. Now, if you have a 45-year-old criterion here, why did you put a 30-year-old limit on professional training for young people? So the draft laws and decisions made by this government are contradictory to each other. So when we have a subsidisation of the purchase of real estate, then the youth limit is 45, and when we have the professional training of young people, then the limit is 30. The second thing, the limitation of the amount of funds in the budget says exactly what the colleagues say. This measure is determined on its own, aimed at only a certain number of young families in Croatia, while taxation of the first real estate was the same for all. The second thing, 30% of subsidies will return by tax to the first real estate that young families have to pay. 30000 kuna if it is a 100 thousand-euro loan, 30 thousand kuna returns to the budget through taxation. Secondly, I am not afraid of what colleagues Stazic and Lalovac have said and what is said here is that it will only be 1000 young families. Unfortunately, in Croatia today, we do not have 1,000 young families who can get a loan at 10 or 30 years from Croatian banks. We don't have them. There will be a very small number of those who will be able to use this simply because young people in Croatia do not, unfortunately, are not creditworthy because they have low wages, because they have no job and it is not a demographic measure, this. A demographic measure is to give people a job, and then other things will come easily. Which a young man, husband and wife, for example, who work for a total of 5000 kunas, can't get a loan. Why do they need a government subsidy now? To subsidize them 80% when they can't use it. That's bad. The second thing, the uncertainty you've introduced with this. The fifth month is, five months the real estate market is suffering, because since the new year, young families don't buy apartments, because they're waiting for this law you announced in 12 months. He's gone. This is the first reading. That shows you're not ready, because we've brought a series of laws into this House by emergency procedure. If you had prepared this eight months ago, and this would have been an emergency procedure. Young people, for example, who might have bought their first real estate today, at 12 months when you introduced the tax they gave up buying because they know the tax of 1.1 comes. They're waiting for this sort of substitute they don't have. So we haven't had an alternative for the tax discharge that's been going on for five months now, and that's what I was saying about tax reform when this story came up. If you had passed this law, and then introduced a tax on first real estate, I would believe that you work planically, systematically, and that you want to help young families. But no, you do everything fire. They're setting you a fire, then you take half a bucket of water and you pour it in and that's it. And this isn't good. What's the message here today for young people? To wait another two, three, five, six months, to wait for the government to fall in 15 days, so we want to go to new elections, so we want to form a new majority again by the beginning of the second year. What do young people do? They've been waiting for a year and they're standing here because I can't buy apartments because you're the one who stopped them. It is the irresponsible behaviour of this government and it is an irresponsible approach to all these political processes and, as such, this government will end. It will end with a fall and a fall, and young people will suffer, young families and citizens will have to pay for it again. Here's thank you very much, and I hope that by the second reading something will be fixed, and then I'll reconsider my support, and for now, I just wanted to say things that I don't agree with in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37274	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sashi Djujic, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first person to call for a replica came forward by an esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37275	Dear counterpart Djujic, the government is thus creating an illusion that it is helping young families. However, this particular government has introduced sales tax on first real estate, and this government has also introduced real estate tax, construction rent, and a hundred other charges since 1.1 next year. And now he says to God we'll help you who are young, but if you take out a loan, and if you don't raise a loan, then there's no help for you. And this measure is actually the only one that could possibly benefit from it are the banks. However, the central issue is the following. If a bank only creates a principal and not interest when lending loans, and money is a matter only by taking credit in such a way that people will return interest on those loans. The answer is no matter what it means that neither the state is able to repay its loans, nor has any extra money to repay other people's interest. It can eventually only raise new loans and sell out assets like HDZ does continuously, they are well-known privatisation experts and on the other hand built to raise loans, what is waiting for them? Why don't they tell the citizens what's waiting for them? They've got an execution waiting for them if he's late for one war of credit, a man-eating exercise, waiting for him out of dissuasion. The Bednje 4.5 Gaski family is waiting for a raid, it's a HDZ policy, and fairy tales about subsidizing loans that I don't even know who can believe in it. And the other fellow mentioned well, you had said from HDZ and that measure of a thousand euros for a new child, which is all one factory of lies that comes from the ranks of an amazing and essentially unserious and circus party called HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37276	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Pernar's just like this bill of law is throwing fog into his eyes because exactly the works speak differently. This government introduced a tax on first real estate, this government redefines the professional training of young people by limiting it and reducing the number of young people who can use it, the missed promise of a thousand euros for the first child, were left out by increasing salaries to young people by tax reform that had just increased salaries to the richest, and the poorest and precisely to young people who work for minimum salaries or young engineers whose average salary in Croatia amounted to six thousand kunas, tax reform brought them nothing. I am not afraid that young people will not be able to repay these loans because unfortunately there are no young people in Croatia who are even creditworthy because they have no business and will not be able to lift them. That's it, so maybe it's luck in the accident right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37278	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic, for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37279	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I admire these young people who spoke before me, I know that Croatia is going in the right direction that it has on whose back we will leave all the burden of our country and that they will certainly make up a quality way out of this difficult situation, they will bring out all the solutions. Mr. Giujic, you're a young man, and so is your colleague Pernar, who's replicated you. I don't know what real sector you're from, what you've been doing in your life, what you've done so far, how much work experience you've had. When you turn around and say behind your life this is my house, this is mine, this is what I did, this is what I created, it's basic. And when I remember one of yours from your former government, and besides how we're gonna run anything when half your people are still sitting as deputies in all of ours in this government. We didn't clean the ground at all when we got here. We didn't replace anyone because you didn't give. We can't move forward if you're hanging us like a ballast on our feet, we can't possibly move without being stuck on one of you that's still in the system and stopping the progress of not moving forward. I know how you'd spend it if you came to power, with one cut and that's it. And I'll only remember the Minister who devastated the Croatian forests with his friend Pavelic's last name. This Yakovina has led to the fact that in the Stroshinci, the wood cube is 200 kuna, and everywhere around it is sold 30 kunas in some recyclings in what I don't know. It's the same one that devastated everything there that was given in agriculture. Is that the government and the solution to the problem that you've been trying to solve for your young colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37280	I thank my esteemed colleague Culei, I would really like to ask you, dear colleague Culey, not to engage in debates in competences and in the experience of any of the MPs and MPs, but rather to stick to the topic of conversation. Thank you very much. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's no problem, I'm glad when a colleague named Culey or anyone else gets into my competences, let's face it, because people with competences don't get ashamed of it. You know, colleague Culey, I've got about ten years of work today, I entered the Croatian Parliament five years ago with five years of work experience and ten years of work experience. I am a young and young man in politics, and it may not be common, but you see I worked in the real sector, if you're interested I can deliver my resume and work book so you can check it out, I unfortunately share the reality of Croatian citizens. I know what it's like to work for a salary, I know what it's like to earn a salary, I know what it's like to work for three, four months and three, four months and I don't get a salary from a single boss at a local level who, say, buys a new car, and he didn't give the workers a salary for four months, and I'm sorry, but I've experienced it in my so far young but working rich life. So you found your colleague Culey's wrong address. And that's what I did in the profession, I worked in catering, I didn't owe a tax to anyone, I settled my obligations neatly. I work in this country, I'm a child of a Croatian defender, you see, my father is your colleague, an officer of the Croatian Army, a lieutenant so I don't have those stains that you often show. And when you're talking about this cleaning, if you haven't managed to replace people from the former government, then you've now confirmed that you don't have a majority in this government from the beginning, or that this government doesn't have a majority since the beginning if it can't change anything. And then it would be correct if you told us right away at the beginning we don't have a majority but you still painted us there, Prime Minister Plenkovic suggests ministers who have no support and can't do anything about it. Well, you just said you couldn't do anything for six months. So, I don't know, here's what I'm asking you to do in your party, give me more credit, we don't have most of us going to new elections and end this agony of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37282	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. I'm glad we spent this response on the subject we're discussing today. We move to the next debate individually, a distinguished colleague, Branimir Bunjac, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37283	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have before us the Law on subsidising housing loans for young people with a beautiful name, has a nice shape but has empty content. In this regard, the state has decided since 1.1.2017 to charge 4% of the tax on these young families when buying new property as early as they were released. That the state intends to charge them construction rent and real estate tax from 1.1.2018. Not just for them, but for all the other citizens, and now because of some remorse, one part of the money he takes from them wants to pay them back. That's about the logic, I'll give you 100 euros and you give me 100 kuna. So basically it's given less than it's taken. And the worst, however, is that this state, the alleged competent government, is persistently unable to come up with anything smarter than to sell to citizens 100 times in a row of banking products and to employ citizens. That's all this government knows. It thus offers them some kind of interest subsidy at 4 or 6 years, depending on whether young families will have children and will then take 3.4 times as much as she has given them. I would like to explain a little bit with the following discussion of the methodology used by banks, i.e. a bank offering loans to the citizens of banks. In fact, five thousand years ago, people lived in a prehistoric world without any technology, and they only knew their daily needs, which I'm going to eat today, where I'm going to sleep, how I'm going to survive. In the last five years, there's been a terrible technological advance but human consciousness, sociological consciousness hasn't shifted much in advance for the last five thousand years. And people often still today, most of them only realize their daily needs. This is very skillfully used by banks and corporations to offer people small gifts to sign borrowings, whether they offer them three months of free internet and phone calls as they sign subscriptions for the Internet and phones, whether as they give them credit cards or 100 kunas on a card, whether they take credit cards, whether they give them interest subsidies which we now have the opportunity to see or release credit fees because people fail to understand their strategy or not to plan their life in the long term. And how would you even know him when he doesn't even know the Croatian state itself? So imagine that we, like, are probably the only EU member who doesn't have a strategic planning office. We have no idea what we want in a year, let alone what we want in 30 years. And now it's said to the citizens, here you're going to have a four-year grant and your loan will last for 30 years and after 4 years another 26 years, you'll practically have to pay off your loans for life. We've already seen that story at the time of Eve Sanader. What did he promise the citizens? We'll free you from taxes, we'll pay you back taxes when you get your first apartment, we'll give you this kind of relief, that kind of relief. Look at the situation we have today with these same loans, all these reliefs have been lifted and they've been made, citizens have to pay their full salary so they don't get kicked out of their homes, but unfortunately, many are up to being kicked out or already out. The same thing will happen to these loans you're now offering. It's nice to be 30 years old, be full of strength, be young, but you're the same one who's now taking loans at 30 or 35, what about 55, at 60, if they happen to be out of a job and no one wants to hire them again, if they happen to lose their health? They're gonna throw them out on the street. Just like those suckers who bought flats at the time of Ivo Sanader in 2005 and 2006 on credits with state incentives and I don't know what. This idea is therefore a missed idea, it works again in favour of banks, it goes for our citizens to be further in debt, it goes for the number of executions and blockades to increase and what is the worst of all the number of operations, in a country where we have tens of thousands of empty apartments, tens of thousands of empty houses, where in Slavonia houses are sold 200 euros per square. It would be much better for the state to put these properties into operation, first of all those that are state-owned or to allow citizens to settle with state incentives in these houses, so that if they live in them a certain number of years of 5, 10 or 15, they will still allow these same young families to enjoy this property as their own. This would be one of the solutions that would certainly be more in function and demographic reconstruction and economic recovery and social recovery than this one-time measure that will, as it will prove, cause far more damage to Croatian citizens than benefits. I call on the government, I call on the ministry to find some smarter solutions and not therefore to work again in favour of the banks, to work again on hiring citizens. This measure, you will see, all the happiness here for the sake of the ladies and phonogram, you will remember will not achieve the desired effect, it will unfortunately cause new tragedies of young Croatian families that will benefit these measures. Of course, I know that you're actually looking at all these problems completely separate from the people, but among other things here, at least try talking to people who might take these loans. Here, you said there'd be 1,000 of them. What's that gonna look like? How's that 1,000 going to go? I've heard that some tents will be raised there in front of the ministry, that people will probably fight to get that measure, that some subsidy. Why just a thousand? Why doesn't this country have any larger resources? Why don't you use that 4% tax to maybe include a larger number of users. But I repeat even that in reality, and you succeed in the measure, so it will not achieve its desired goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37284	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for this debate. We have two replicas. The first person to call for a replica came forward by an esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37285	Chairman, so I remember the modern milkman Ivan Hadjisia from Shimljan, near Bjelovar, the state encouraged him to open a dairy farm, the state told him to raise the loan we'll subsidize you, we'll help you. And when he took up credit for his farm, the state represented him as an example of an entrepreneur who was raising loans to get into business. Yes, yes, John Hadjasi of Shimljan near Bjelovar. And what happened? Minister Bajs left as he headed for the campaign last local election from his farm to visit the county. And do you know how John Hadjasiah the milkman ended up? What was the final result of this policy of encouraging people to enter loans? You know which one? A man blew himself up with a bomb. How many of you were at the funeral that you pushed him into the loan? No ladies and gentlemen. Here's another example. On Tuesday, I was auctioned by the edge of the Bear of Pusca. The man came in and the same on the state's incentive they call it some kind of operational program. He took a loan to build a pig farm. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, on the incentive of the state. And you know how it feels when you and a man come into the room together, on the one hand sits a representative of the PBZ, on the other hand he says the auction goes on. It's the fate of the peasants who took up loans. So what happens now? You've seen that peasants aren't as naive as they were anymore, that they don't smoke your credit stories anymore, and they don't want to take them because you see where they're going. Suicidal and dissection. And now that you've ruined them, gentlemen of the HDZ, you want these young people neither guilty nor obliged to get into loans with godly subsidies. Same story, same actors. I hope it won't be the same results, that it won't end the story of dejections and suicides. But since your Prime Minister Plenkovic lied about protecting the only real estate from the performance, and he won't, even though he said it in the campaign, I'm afraid this story of yours will end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37286	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. I would really ask you to choose the words you speak in the Croatian National Assembly and not to use words that are not suitable for this House. Answer, esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37287	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pernar, here you are a young man. You'll probably start a family. You're 31 years old and imagine now that as much as you've been through so far, you have to continue to pay some housing credit for 30 years, so you practically have to pay another one your whole life. What happens after four years or possibly those six? Does the legislator explain this to the citizens? According to the CNB report that we all got on the table next year, interest rates will rise by 2% of that variable interest. On the loan that has 3% interest increase by 2% is 66% interest increase. For a 3% interest rate if it rises to 5 credit rates, it will increase by 700 to 1000 kuna. The interest is tied to the euro and the libor fights. They are now at historically low levels. It is clear that these interest rates will grow. If a citizen takes 100,000 euros in credit as much as he can, until he pays 4% of the tax, while paying for the segregation, while paying for the cost of processing the loan, while paying for the house's appraisal he'll have. He will already lose 6, 7 or 8 thousand euros at the start. Well, later on, through those interest rates. After 5, 6 years he'll wake up in a nightmare, he'll realize that the rest of his salary isn't enough for a basic existence, and he'll have 23 or 24 more years to pay off his loans, practically until the day he retires. Such loans are not for the benefit of young people, such loans are only for the benefit of banks and foreign ones, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37288	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37289	Although it is not the subject of this debate, but I do believe that it should not, that we should not go over it lightly, you mentioned that human consciousness has not changed since the beginning of time, which of course is not true, and this brings us into a possible fatalist world that we then apply to all laws and all political activities, including the activity of this law. Human consciousness is very variable. I'm only going to direct you to one of Max Scheller's theorists who's been talking about co-existing in the world a lot of consciousness. One is, for example, the ancient Greeks in which man believes that immortality comes from mental activity, the other is a Jewish-Christian who believes that man is created by the will of gods. The third is the one who believes that man is a being that is subject to many instincts to these present-days in which we are trying to rationally regulate the world and reality. And this law is an attempt to rationally regulate the world and reality, and if we reasonably approach this law, this law does not give an order to someone that they owe credit to. This is about the offer, this is about repeating one offer to our families and our citizens. The law does not give a warrant and does not prescribe that Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens are obliged to comply with this law and enter credit burdens, they are not. And I agree with you if you wanted to say in your presentation that policies can be those that will homogenize laws, but that within politics can also develop hegemonic consciousness. That's what we witness almost daily, but it shouldn't affect the rationality of our judgment of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37290	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Vučetić, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37291	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Vučetic, I did not say that human consciousness did not advance but that human consciousness did not follow technological developments, so technology developed faster than human consciousness. However, since you've gone so far, let me tell you just one brief anecdote, and this is when Pablo Picasso, the most famous painter of the 20th century, visited caves with prehistoric drawings of Altamir and Lascaux and established, we haven't progressed. So he was simply observing, facing the life that once existed essentially saw that there were no fundamental changes in human skills or human activity. Banks come up with products, banks are like casinos, those two, three years, they come up with these so-called. products where you always lose. You can't come to the bank and say you double-cross the bank. She will always fool you, she has experts, she has lawyers, she has experience and she only preys on citizens to throw them into debt slavery and take away everything they have. Unfortunately, citizens do not have such logistics as banks or should have such logistics at all because it is not their job to study all possible laws and financial flows, but therefore there is a state as a regulator, there are its institutions, there is this Assembly, there is the CNB, there is the Ministry of Finance, so here if you want the Ministry of Civil Engineering that should simply offer citizens fair solutions or simply offer them nothing. I don't know, I don't know, and there may be people in the ministry who think it's good, so maybe they should be informed about the long-term effects of their bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37292	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for his reply. Next for discussion on behalf of the club Let's change Croatia for the final word on behalf of the club the esteemed colleague Marin Škibola appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37293	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The government is seeking to encourage demographic renewal by a new bill relating to the subsidisation of loans to young families and to all up to 45 years, but from the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, as well as from the Ministry of Demography, Family and Youth and Social Policy, they forget to mention that such a measure by a long-term young family could be very easy to introduce into debt slavery from which it will be very difficult to get out. In fact, the loan subsidy measure is limited to only four years, and in exceptional situations if the family increases by birth or adoption of the child for another two years. Article 9 of this proposal states that "a credit subsidy is granted for a loan whose amount does not exceed EUR 100 000 in kuna equivalent to the CNB average foreign exchange rate on the date of payment of the credit and whose payment period is not less than 15 years". The question arises, what about after the end of four years of subsidisation? At that time, young families are left to themselves and must have been paid off for more than 11 years. I feel obliged to react and warn all young families not to be attracted to these loans because very soon after the end of the subsidy they might be able to look at the unloved scenes of raids from the only home. In my judgment and in my judgment, this new government measure is only seemingly most intelligent and positive, but in the long run and realistically, it is a populist measure that suits the most banking cartels that have already robbed our people. No one mentions that banks, not young people, will be the biggest winners of this law because the demand for loans on the one hand will rise, and on the other hand, the state will increase the budget deficit in favour of foreign banks' profits. And at the end of the story, it seems that in Croatia, the most money is always saved on workers, the middle class, and the banks and their owners have been supplying all government over the past 20 years with state money whether directly or indirectly. The measure whose initial objective was to promote demographic recovery will in the long term be a depopulation measure that will further increase the number of performances and evictions, and exponentially multiply the profits of bankers. A large number of people are interested in why the payment deadline is set for at least 15 years. It is about unnecessary exposure to interest risks, and no regulation over interest fluctuations is prescribed. With banks, it is agreed that only at a time of interest subsidy will not be greater than 3.75%, and then after that. Is that really protecting our citizens? Will you again cause this law affair Swiss franc, and we all know how the Swiss franc ended up with an appraisal. A large number of people don't have any cash receipts, and they're not creditworthy to buy an apartment on credit. In Croatia, we have an explosion of dissuading and blocking accounts. An abduction by credit institutions but no one mentions bank taxation. A much better solution is for the state to offer state-owned apartments under more favourable conditions, i.e. local self-government units, not to favour banks with budget money, which will eventually be transferred to mothers. The question arises what happens when a thousand credit quota is fulfilled, which is with other people who have failed to enter that quota. In this sense, the government creates an illusion that these first 100 who succeed are able to enter that quota that they are the winners. And if it turns out that they are being deceived and deceived and the issue of financial discrimination can be raised because this law does not include the entire people.../The speaker has been excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37294	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Marina Skiboli, for this debate. We have one replica of the esteemed colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37295	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Škibol, to be clear that the loans are a problem for us in Croatia. Everyone who's ever taken loans has gotten into trouble. And what you said to these young people who... A 3.7% loan and a questionnaire on how much interest there will be later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also drags into one problem in suspense. Why? We're an unsettled society. In organized societies, credit is not a problem because stable states, stable currencies, employment are safe, with us everything is absolutely insecure. Therefore, our people are not even used to raising loans in their history and therefore we have 80% in property owned without credit. But what happens next. Here's what they're going to do. They're going to introduce real estate taxes, so our people are going to have to pay real estate taxes, too. It's another kind of taxation of the same people who have struggled to make and have their own real estate without burden. And after that, he's going to get into trouble where people are going to put these real estates into which they're going to end up losing like these 350 thousand people who have a problem. So in a year's time, we'll have 500 grand of them if we continue with politics like this, if we don't give loans in kunas and the highest interest of 0.5 to 2% that we've already talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37296	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Schibol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37297	Thank you, fellow Misic, for this replica. I'm genuinely interested in how the bridge will vote when this law comes on the agenda is that we see these speculations are taking place about the government's misdemeanor. And what you said, that's a fact, Croatia needs radical measures, radical measures that will improve the conditions for young people to stay in this country. And these certainly aren't credit claims, that they go into debt slavery and then be slaves to some credit institutions that don't give a shit about this country at all, but they're in the interest of borrowing both the citizens of this country and the state itself. And then what? Then blackmail them, then tell them you have to introduce a property tax, you have to privatize these public resources, those public resources, etc., etc. Croatia needs a sovereign policy, Croatia needs state politicians who will not fall under the blackmail of these financial institutions, whether it is an international monetary fund, whether it is private banks, they are not state and cannot be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37298	I thank my esteemed fellow Scybols for this answer. And on behalf of the promoter, we have the final word of Ms. Katica Prpic, the esteemed State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, the Honorable Parliamentarians. Here let me really thank you at this point for this much effort and work on really a whole series of concrete and suggestive remarks that we have listened carefully, which we will process until the second reading and which we will also install in the bill. But you are all aware that one law cannot resolve all the questions of the promoter and really wanted to be encouraging measures, but one law never answered all the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37300	I would like to thank the guest secretary of state, Mrs Katica Prpic. We have one replica. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37301	Mrs Prpic, you say no law has answered all questions, but I will answer you in the same style. This law does not answer key questions but also opens many others and the key question is what will happen to these people who will raise these loans to the state's incentive once they can't return them? To that question, your government's answer, HDZ's is the performance and the mirage. That's your answer to that question. And you're just asking a question, you're not giving the answers, ma'am. The answers you don't give, the raids are a programme of the HDZ government. I remember when Mr. Plenkovic was campaigned in the election campaign, your prime minister said that their government, HDZ, would protect the only real estate from this. Some of them believed him. And you know how they ended up? They're waiting, they're living in waiting for a mirage, and some, for some, it's anticipating too hard, ma'am. A man in the Sesvets hanged himself the other day waiting for an act. Are you even aware of what's going on? Are you aware of where credit leads people? Are you aware of where the state that's taking up loans doesn't return where such a state ends? Do you even care? Have you ever thought about it or live like... woman in one castle devoid of reality, in the illusion that everything is great, that GDP is growing, that Croatia is growing and the people are located Mrs. dear on the edge of the sink, on the edge of the sink. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You don't care at all. You don't care at all, it's sad. The central question is how to pay back the interest money if it doesn't exist because all the money comes up exclusively as a loan you don't have the answers. You don't have an answer from where people will pay you back, you don't have answers, you don't have a country to subsidize them from, from which money. You don't have that money. You're doing an account without the innkeepers. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Take the whole country to ruin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37302	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, for this replica. This concludes the debate. I would like to thank the representatives of the motionary from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, State Secretary Ms Katica Prpic, Assistant Minister Daniel Žamboki and Head of the Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Ms Ruzica Mandic. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. With this item on the agenda, we are done with the work of today's plenary session. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 in the morning with a agenda point Final bill on limiting the use of tobacco and related products. And I thank you for a pleasant rest of the day. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 16.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-27-0.u37303	The following is the proposal for a law on subsidisation of housing loans, first reading, P.Z. No. 126, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law on subsidisation of housing loans is hereby adopted. 2. All objections and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 98 votes for, 11 abstentions and 4 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. I'd ask the MPs to take their seats. Dear MPs and MPs, we will proceed with the session's work. Representative Alexic.
