ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38754	Dear President, I request a break on the functioning of the Croatian Parliament and decision-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38755	You got it. If there are no more reports, the session will continue at 9 o'clock and 42 minutes. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:40 AM]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38757	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I called this pause to try to raise awareness to all of us that citizens have given us the voice to protect their interests and interests of our country. This House must be the center of political power and the place where the most important decisions are made for the future of our country. It must not happen to us that decisions are made elsewhere, and that parliamentary representatives serve only as voting machinery that votes those laws, decisions and agreements. It must not happen to us not to hear the voice of our citizens, it must not happen to us that we do not obey them as they have been asked by the Law of concessions to send it to third reading and to consider all the provisions in order to reduce their fears and fears, that public goods, beaches, agricultural land, water sources will come at risk from usurpation. Dear colleagues and colleagues must not happen to us to crash into agreements until we examine all the implications and influences these agreements have on the Croatian economy. Why did dear colleagues and colleagues not jointly support the request of the Most to send a trade agreement with Canada to another reading and to assess the effects of the prescribed Croatian economy. Why we had a problem taking our time if only two European countries ratified the agreement. If this agreement is really good for the Croatian economy as they claim by ruling, why could we not, by assessing the effects of the regulations, confirm and remove all doubts. What now would our President Gordan Jandrokovic, who at the time of the ratification of the arbitration agreement with Slovenia, would have given the foreign minister that he could be returned in 2009 and warned the HDZ government that he was setting himself tighter against the Slovenians and would not agree to the arbitration agreement. Which would have been given by Plenkovic's chief adviser, Vladimir Seks, who was then vice president of the Parliament. What would our colleague give here I don't know is not there, Branko Bacic, who was then the chief secretary of HDZ? What would all HDZ representatives from the current foreign minister to our colleague Josip Djakic give? Please, as colleagues and as MPs, let's not be voting machines, but let's do a good check on all the regulations and all the agreements that come to our agenda here. Let's not be responsible for Andrej Plenkovic, Bozi Petrov, Davor Bernardic. Let us be accountable only to the Croatian people and protect Croatian interests. History remembers every move we make and every voice we make. History recalls that my colleague Bulj, a colleague of Sladolev and I, when this arbitration agreement was voted in 2009 that we were in the ‘The Sea is Land’ T-shirts and were collecting signatures against the arbitration agreement. Until the agreement here in the Parliament voted, there were not enough signatures, so there was no referendum. But history remembers where Miro Bulj was in 2009, where Marko Sladolev was and where Gordan Jandrokovic was. History remembers who was on the side of the people this Friday when the Law on concessions was passed and who was bound by party discipline. It is time for a dear colleague and colleagues for a sovereign Croatian policy that will only take care of the Croatian interests and interests of the Croatian people, and in order for each of you to do so, each representative must be aware that it is only and exclusively for the Croatian people. If that were the case this Friday and only two MPs from the ruling coalition listened to the voice of the people and the voice of our citizens and refused to vote for this disputed Law on concessions would not have passed the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38758	Thank you. I would only remind MPs that the arbitration agreement has no importance for the Croatian Parliament and that representatives of the Croatian Parliament have annulled the arbitration agreement. And one significant part of those you mentioned also sat in the Croatian Parliament when he annulled the agreement. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38764	The word was requested by the honourable representative of the Voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38765	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I am, and I also join the greetings of our students. As you said yourself, this is our future, and that is why the SDP Club is looking for a break of 10 minutes, in order to warn of harmful phenomena related to the curriculative reform, which is happening, a meeting that will take place at 15.00 hours between the diameter, the Minister of Education and the Head of the Commission, where decisions will be made in particular concerning the future of our children. So I'm asking you to grant us a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38766	Of course I approve of your break. Then I'll see you at 11.50. Anyone else want a break? Yeah. Dear MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38767	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The HDZ club is also looking for a break, according to the same problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38768	Thank you very much. We'll stick to the rules of procedure. You know I always stick to the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else take a break? No, I don't. Thank you. Then I'll meet you at 11.50. ANNOUNCEMENT IN 11.40 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac will speak on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38770	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The SDP Club asked for a break because in three hours an extremely important meeting will be held between Prime Minister Plenkovic, Education Minister Mrs Divjak and the President of the Special Expert Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, where I will dare say to tailor the future of our education system and to which some decisions will be made on when our children will go to a new school. I will remind here in the Croatian Parliament we have brought a strategy of science, education and technology without a vote, and in this strategy we Assembly representatives on behalf of the Republic of Croatia have determined that as soon as possible we will allow Croatia to educate modern education of the 21st century, that old programs in which children are very often forced to bug fiction and facts by heart instead of learning from new programmes that will focus more on learning outcomes. We have defined that in high school, we will give students more opportunities to create their own programs and that through election programs they are somehow committed to what is better for them, to take advantage of all their potentials. We have determined that we will change the way in which the evaluation should be much more effective, which should give more feedback to students, we have defined that we will give stronger support to students or children with developmental difficulties, members of national minorities who are vulnerable groups and have slightly different starting positions than the rest of the students. We have also defined ourselves to improve the management of our educational institutions by licensing directors and asking them to satisfy certain competences and to improve themselves in some way throughout their lives, as well as to ask our teachers, teachers, professors and professional associates. We have also defined that we will refresh the teaching process and school management through a major e-school project, meaning not only that we will improve the business of schools but also that we will also refresh education to make it much, much more interesting for students. We have also defined that we are really going to make a great deal of effort to make sure that the moment we leave the education system that we do not stop being educated for life or that we do not stop learning for life. However, the Croatian Parliament, which is the highest body in the Republic of Croatia, which is the legislative body, which adopts Croatian laws, which adopts documents that have the power of Croatian laws that must be followed by all citizens of the Republic, but all institutions in the Republic of Croatia have decided under cover of the night, somewhere away from the eyes of the public to completely change the direction given by the Croatian Parliament. Someone has made a new action plan for the implementation of the strategy, but not only has it stopped to see how all of this we have defined as the Republic of Croatia in which deadlines and how we implement it in Croatian schools, someone has taken the right to derrogate through this document, massacre the strategy itself, and to derogate or deny the decisions of the Croatian Parliament. Thus, as many as 120 measures taken by this Croatian Parliament were changed through the document, without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament. 11 goals were thrown out without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament, 12 new ones were added without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament, 2 were modified without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament. The action plan that must receive the green light of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture has never seen this draft board. So everything was done without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament. The action plan has changed so 129 measures have also been put out, 22 new ones have been added and 71 have been modified. Someone forgot about one very important thing, which is that we do not have our budget where we depend largely on the EU for all the funds to depend on the strategy. The EU is serious about giving funds it will give to invest in our education system, but only in what there is a national guarantee, and the national guarantee is the decision of the Croatian Parliament and the blessing of the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology. I'm taking this opportunity to appeal to the participants of the meeting at 15.00 hours to give up on this, from the massacre of the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology. Let us breathe to the educational system, discuss how we will implement what has already been done and brought to the Croatian Parliament, and let us not slow down the processes and now bring some new documents without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament for which the EU will not give us money and which will not contribute to the rapid modernisation of the Croatian education system, on the contrary, will slow it down. The strategy has been changed to unrecognizable. We don't know who the author of that document is. No one has the right to do so and I appeal to Prime Minister Plenkovic to manage the processes in the Republic of Croatia and let no one, and we do not know who is somewhere under cover of the night in silence some room away from the public's eyes, changes Croatia's path for which this Croatian Parliament and the Croatian path is positive and can only bring good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38771	Thank you. The next member of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like first of all to point out that all activities on the preparation and implementation of curricula reform and the activities we are talking about today, which is primarily the creation of an action plan based on the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology, are taking place with their dynamics. And that should be emphasized. As already known, a meeting of the special section on the implementation of the curricular reform and the preparation of all these documents is to be held today at 3 p.m. So Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Divjak will also attend the meeting. And I am convinced that and I want the Croatian public to know this, and it is in the interest of the Croatian public to point out that both Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Divjak are taking care that all these activities which are, therefore, primarily carried out in one atmosphere of pluralism, in the atmosphere of the involvement of all interested stakeholders and, of course, in the atmosphere of the general consensus of all who are interested in carrying out the curricular reform. I also point out that the continuation of all activities is not questioned, they have their own dynamics and are carried out primarily in the interests of our children, and mine and yours, in the interest of our teachers, our teachers, our teachers, in the interests of the parents of children and in the interests of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And so I urge you to stop raising tensions, not to further politicize this situation, we invite you to wait for this meeting to take place at 3:00. I call on you not to fall for the media link that rises again when it comes to continuing to implement the curriculative reform and to consider who is in the interest of this media lynch, who is in the interest to interfere with the activities currently under way. To those who were unable to do everything possible to continue the curricular reform and then turn the story to it, the curriculative reform has been stopped. The reform has not been stopped, the action plan is being developed, it is based on the Education, Science and Technology Strategy and only for the full and real information of our public, the existing action plan that was spoken of by a colleague, Glasovac, and called for procedures and for the role of the Parliament has never passed the parliamentary procedure and at Parliament level has not been adopted. So much for procedures. So once again, I urge you to stop raising tensions and to avoid and stop politicizing the whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u38773	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42863	We're going to the first item of the agenda now, so I'm just going to read it and then we're going to take a break. So that's: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Compensation of property, first reading, P.Z. No. 123 So now we move on to the proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Compensation of property, first reading, P.Z. No. 123. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. I would like to ask the representative of the motionary, the esteemed Željko Tufekčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance to give us an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42865	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, you have before you the proposal for a law on the termination of the Fund Act of Retracted Assets. This law prescribes the termination of the Act on the Compensation Fund Act, i.e. the termination of the work of the Fund for the Compensation of Assets, and its accession to the Ministry of Finance in such a way that the operations of the Fund are carried out in the future by the private establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance. The law goes into two readings as an opportunity for possible further improvements to the bill itself. The Trust Fund for the Compensation of Assets was established by the Law on the Fund for the Compensation of Assets and entered in the Court Register in July 1998. The Fund was established for payment of compensation in money and bonds in the Republic of Croatia, when compensation in those forms was prescribed by the Property Compensation Act taken over during the Yugoslav communist rule. The Fund shall carry out the following tasks, so as to pay the compensation in cash and bonds to the beneficiaries of the compensation, the foundations of the eligible decisions on the compensation for the seized property, the sale of the nationalised and confiscated apartments to former tenants, that is to say, protected tenants, and the collection of the funds realised by their sale, participate in administrative procedures in which, in accordance with the Law on Compensation, the Fund has the status of the party, or the debtor of the compensation. They shall participate in judicial proceedings in which this fund is a defendant in litigation relating to the sale of nationalised and confiscated dwellings and to appropriate measures related to them and shall participate in the implementation of the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on Economic Affairs. During the period from draft to end of 2016, 11550 eligible solutions were accepted in the Fund, which set the compensation for 26052 compensation beneficiaries. In all the solutions that have been taken so far, a fee has been fixed in money and bonds of about a billion and 967 million kuna. And from that amount to 31 December 2016, the fee was made for 99% of the solution. On the other hand, from 97' when the sale of nationalised and confiscated apartments started, by the end of 2016, 21 000 and 58 apartment sales contracts were completed. In total, 13079 contracts were paid out of that number. The total value of the contracts concluded on the sale of nationalised and confiscated apartments amounts to around 975 million kuna. Over 90% of the contract on the sale of said apartments, or about 19 and a half thousand, was concluded in the first three years following the establishment of the fund in the period from 97' to 99'. In the last 3 years, only 73 contracts were concluded from 2014 to 2016, of which only 15 in 2016. The reduced intensity of recent years has also been recorded and accepted by powerful solutions which determine the compensation for the compensation authority. In accordance with the economic and fiscal policy guidelines from 2014 to 2016, the then Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in the context of reforms aimed at reducing public debt, from 1 January 2014, the fund is included in the State Treasury system, which means that the funds for carrying out operations in the delirious fund are secured in the state budget and the revenues from the sale of apartments to tenants who have acquired the right to purchase an apartment in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Compensation, are the revenues of the state budget and are paid into the state budget. The main objectives of the 2016 national reform programmes are to improve the public administration system and further fiscal consolidation. The main objective of this reform measure, for greater efficiency and transparency of the public sector, is to reduce the number of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority. That reduction may be carried out by attaching, joining, or abolishing a legal person or by transferring powers to the relevant ministries, in a way that achieves maximum efficiency and does not impair the quality of the service provided to the end-user at the same time. Furthermore, the public debt management strategy, for the period 17'-19', provides for the unification of public debt management-related transactions and the strengthening of public debt management capacities. In fact, one of the most significant transactions, which is carried out by the trustee for the disbursement of the assets, is the issue of bonds and the pursuit of the business of the granting of liability shares. This includes opening a securities account in the central clearing depository society, affairs... For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: the change of ownership over securities and after the allocation, in accordance with the Central clearing depository company in the payment of the half-year annuities of compulsory shares, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Fund issues on its own the so-called fund. the global bonds of the Republic of Croatia, which includes the performance of all the work on preparation and issue. So far, the fund has issued 5 series of global bonds to the Republic of Croatia, and bonds are used to pay compensation to the compensation authorities. In accordance with all of this, the Ministry of Finance carried out a detailed analysis establishing the justification for the accession of the grant fund to the Ministry of Finance, in a way that the Fund's operations are in future carried out by a separate establishment unit in the Ministry of Finance. In order to implement that accession, it is necessary to adopt this law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Excessive Assets. By the end of the period of validity of the Fund for Excessive Assets Act, the status of the Fund for the Compensation of Assets is changed, as a liability for money and bonds of the Republic of Croatia, in respect of other assets seized, and the future operations of the Fund will be carried out by a separate establishment unit in the Ministry of Finance. Also, as referred to in Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council are bound by this Regulation. The 4th draft law, on the date of entry into force of this law, the Ministry of Finance will take over equipment, writing and other documentation, resources for work, financial resources, and the rights and obligations of the Fund for Excessive Assets, as well as employees found in the taken-over transactions. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 5, 6 and 7 shall determine the status of employees of the ex post-deprived assets fund as well as the president and vice-president Employees of the ex post-deposit fund who, at the time of the law's merger, will be found in the course of the law, continue to work on the jobs where the salaries are found and retained according to current regulations, until a solution to the schedule is reached in accordance with the rules in the internal order of the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, this proposal for a law has established that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, supplement the regulation in the internal structure of the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the provisions of this law, also establish the obligation of the Minister of Finance, that within 15 days from the date of entry into force of the said Regulation with the same harmonisation of the Internal Design Regulation. Following everything said, I propose to the Croatian Parliament, to propose this bill, and we expect a constructive debate that will contribute to a better development of the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42866	I thank the Secretary of State. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? There's no one here. Before that, they're replicas. We've got three of them. First respected colleague, Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42867	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So the SDP Representatives' Club supports this bill, which is more to be discussed by counterpart Lalovac. My replica is more of an implementing nature, and as strange as this seems, it does not refer to this law because there is nothing controversial about it, it refers to the Law on Compensation. In fact, the issue of the fund's work is not only governed by this law that we are discussing today but also by the Law on Compensation. For example, just to mention, Article 13(3) of the Law clearly states, the payer is therefore the payer of the money and the bonds is the Compensated Assets Fund. Furthermore, we have article 24. The law on compensation which speaks of certain technical aspects of the work of the fund. I have carefully examined the provisions of this law and they are heading towards solving this problem, but the fact is that you cannot, by one law, change the text of another law. And in order for everything that you're proposing to liven up in practice, my remark is not that you're changing anything in this law, but that we use the fact that we now have the first reading of this law, that we fully conduct the debate. As far as I can see and how much I've followed up on the committees around this we'll have quite a broad consensus and then, in accordance with this consensus that is now being reached when the law is sent to another reading parallel with them, you'll send it by an urgent procedure because there are absolutely justified reasons for the amendment and addition of the Law on Refunds to bring the provisions that we're adopting here today into that law. For example, Article 24. The law on compensation is an example of an article that we cannot cover and neither the transitional nor final provisions of the Law we are now discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42868	Thank you. The answer to the line, or will you come back later? Later. Okay, thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42869	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry that he's not here today, he's probably got other obligations, but maybe it's a picturesque display, and it's precisely this bill of law that shows not only the relationship between the government and the parliament but how the Parliament got into a situation. That's in my opinion. Someone says to get involved alone in the trap you made. In fact, you said today that you hoped that in two readings this legal proposal would improve, and I agree with my colleague, the coat of arms, I don't really see what can be improved here. This law should be supported and in my opinion should not even go in two readings,...to hold first and second reading, an emergency procedure simply to adopt it as soon as possible. The law is good, the proposal is good. Because if Minister Zdravko Maric suggests that the fund's valleys are done for a different structural form, and he is also Zdravko Maric is the chairman of the Fund's Management Board, then there's actually this consensus and then man knows what he's doing. There is no need for detailed analysis mentioned here because otherwise Minister Zdravko Maric would be in conflict with the chairman of the board of directors, Zdravko Maric, and that would not be good, but I believe that is not the case. So I think that this law should be passed as soon as possible because it shows how much of the problem any reform we want to take. If we want reform, there's a series of problems. Well, after all, I didn't know what my colleague Grbin mentioned, but then it should be decided to change another law. So we need to change things as quickly as possible because this is how we're going to work, work, and it's not going to end up like many colleagues said we're not wasting time here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42870	Thank you. And the third replica of Honorary colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42871	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Tufekčić, you have made very clear in your presentation certain things and presented that the termination of this Fund for Compensation Act is now falling under the Ministry of Finance, which is a special establishment unit. Then you said that your intensity was also to reduce the number of agencies, the number of institutions and the number of funds. Well, that's why I came forward, so it is generally known that the Republic of Croatia belongs to the most centralised European states and that this centralist administration system has become one of the brakes of both economic and overall social development of the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday we had the opportunity to see both municipalities and cities or county at a meeting in Požega where the funding of local self-government units was being discussed and I thought that the time had matured for a comprehensive public administration reform. I think there are enough indicators, as far as I can see, and in this law, you've been conducting one thorough analysis that crystallized the abolition of this Fund for the compensation of the seized assets and the accession to the ministry. I have always been of the opinion that the vast majority of agencies are parallelisms in the Republic of Croatia and that as such they should not be independent but within the framework of the ministries. I hope this is a good start to a full public administration reform, and I'm glad I heard that part of your presentation today and the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42872	Thank you. And I'm opening a debate. The first came to the word of the SDP advocates' club and distinguished counterpart Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42873	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary. Here is a proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the Compensation of the Assets. The SDP club will support this law. The Trust Fund for the Compensation of Assets, very briefly, means what the Honorable State Secretary said had the property of a legal person, that he was the budgetary beneficiary of the State Budget and that he was involved in the State Treasury system, and that the supervision of that fund is already being carried out by the Ministry of Finance. It has also been said that these are the underlying transactions of the fund, which are certainly compensation payments in the money and bonds of the Republic of Croatia, the beneficiaries of the compensation based on the rightful solutions to the compensation for the seized property, then the sale of nationalised, confiscated dwellings to tenants or protected tenants. Next, the collection of funds resulting from the sale of apartments, records of these apartments, the monitoring of the collection, the records of mortgage debtors and the production of erasures, as well as the end of the issue of global bonds by the Republic of Croatia for the repossessed assets. The explanation of the applicant is that these draft laws provide for the implementation of the activities set out in the national programme on... to implement reform measures to improve the public administration system and further fiscal consolidation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I'd like to see is certainly, nowhere is it explained how much savings it is. Here we see only briefly that the fund had 31 employees of 6.9 million kuna and that there were some material expenditures of a million and a half kuna. However, since it is a law that we are talking about reforming public administration, it would be good to see what the impact of the effects on the budget will be, especially when the resources and the necessary resources for the need of this law are being assessed below, it is written to achieve savings in the state budget. There is nowhere to be seen how much money is in particular if we know that these employees will be deployed to other functions not only within the Ministry of Finance but probably within another system of state administration. The question arises where, and where it is stated, a detailed analysis has been made, so I see no reason why perhaps later in the explanation the Secretary of State has also told us something from this detailed analysis of how much this effect on the budget is. Because it is not only important to declare that we want to reform the public administration, we all agree and there is no one in the Parliament who will not support such a position. However, it would be good to see what the real effects of each of these laws are, and when they are given up, the so-called. PFU pattern, meaning a fiscal impact assessment for each law and it would be good to see what amount of money it is especially if we know that these people will be deployed to other functions and whether any savings will be involved here at all. But we are not contesting the right of the Minister and the Ministry of Finance to self-organize them in a form that will organise that part of the business. There, of course, is full support of the minister that he determines in that section how this unit will function. We've talked a lot here, we know about the fund's business, but it would be good to hear this fund's been doing a lot of business for a long time, to see if their volume of jobs that are no longer satisfying their current organisational structure, so they'll probably switch to some other jobs. It would be good to hear how much work there is left. So if we've already talked about their jobs if there's more work to do in 2, 3 years, just bonding, bond management is in the Ministry of Finance's management, and that's what it's been doing so far, so it's not the fund itself, so without the Ministry of Finance, they couldn't even manage those global bonds. But here, there are a number of other, numerous other jobs here especially when we talk about this sale of apartments, the collection of funds, whether these employees will be transferred to another Minister Maric who will manage state property, and in this way there will actually be some rationalisation in that system if they are already doing that part of the property management business, or which parts pay compensation, perhaps with other transactions that will manage state property. Maybe that's where they'll connect and make their savings, now we won't have to hire additional people there. That would make sense to me, because if we're determined to manage state property in a centralized place where we have a minister in charge of it, we think it's a good idea for all of us to, uh, manage that part of the property there and transfer it. It was similar, and I remember when I was Minister and at the Ministry of Defence where I don't know whether at the Ministry of Defence or also at the Ministry of Defense where we have a lot of apartments that are also paid off which part of the apartments is now managed by the Ministry of Defence to transfer to the Ministry of State Property, that this is how the part is centralized, and that people who are professional and competent in these areas may not be burdened by the ministry itself which is not their primary activity, but because we now have the Ministry of State Property to rationalise that part of the business in this way. So very briefly, so the SDP club supports this law, especially because I say the minister has the authority to organise his establishment unit and we don't see any problems here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42874	Thank you. We have a replica of an honorary colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42875	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Lalovac, you mentioned something in your presentation that I think really deserves one attention and discussion and it is property owned by the Republic of Croatia. We now have a special ministry, I was one of them who said it seemed to be good. However, we still have a situation that the property owned by the Republic of Croatia is located in the direction of different ministries. So the part at the Ministry of Defence, it's part of the Ministry of Defence about the defenses, part of it is connected to the Ministry of Construction with other things, and now it's obviously going to be at the Ministry of Finance. It's certainly not good, I think we should strive that the property is in one place because then it can be managed incomparably better. The more we have the special ministry, the more we have Minister Maric, who manages the team. And somehow it seems to me that at some point it would be good if maybe this Parliament was informed at least in a way how much property, how it's managed, which seems, which is still the meaning of it all together. Well, in this regard, I absolutely support that you've put it as a topic and it's safe and in this law, the law is relatively simple, and there will obviously be consensus on that law, but it opens up deeper problems and one of these problems is that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42876	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, well, if the purpose of this law means that this part, not only of a global obligation, is normally managed by the Ministry of Finance, but these other transactions if they stay in the Ministry of Finance, then we have not resolved anything by this law, but we hope that all these people who have worked there will be in the Ministry of State Property, so to Mr Goran Maric. And that what you're saying, so, for the first time, we get to one ministry, means management of the entire state property, a number of apartments that burden both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, to make it whole, because it's a number of one records, a number of records mean that you have to have professional and competent people to manage it and when you transfer to the Ministry of State Property and I think that in that context we can talk about the right one reform, public administration reform and that then some and the effects of fiscal, fiscal effects will then be expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42878	Thank you. The second debate is a respected colleague, Tomislav Žagar, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42879	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, and my debate will be very short, first of all, I must say that the MOST Club will support this legislative proposal because it is good simply because every initiative, every law that improves the work of the state administration, which makes it easier and faster because of a good proposal. Here's the fund, I think, on July 16th, he turned 19 from his draft, and I think a lot of work has been done in that period, given the laws on seized property in the former system but on the conversion and privatisation that's been done since the 1990s here. I think that the fund has done a lot of work, somehow to reverse logic now that it is on its feet, we are now removing it but, of course, given those waves of demands that went towards the return of property, the Ministry and Minister Maric have estimated that the fund no longer needs to be, the truth is that now we need to see how it will continue to function and carry out its task, whether through the Ministry of Finance or some other ministries. What I warned through the replica and what I did now would repeat again, some legislative proposals that are very important, such as a trade agreement with Canada, we couldn't even have another reading, was an emergency procedure, related to the Law on concessions, there was no third reading, and this law goes into two readings that I don't think there's a need for, but there will be an opportunity of course, and the ministry may, these things that are a wider area of law to regulate. So, to conclude, MOST will support this bill, and we hope that, that this is only the beginning of one already part of the reforms that are necessary in all sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42880	Thank you. Just one second please, colleague Grozdana Peric, who is chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget should arrive any second. My colleague Lalovec went to replace her, and that was the deal, so your debate took a little bit longer. I'm just expecting a second so... can we switch, okay? Here, let's do it, let's do it. Here I am thanking you, yes, thank you, here we are, then we'll make a small exchange, so she will speak first to her distinguished colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash, on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives and HSU, and then after that, she will speak to her colleague Peric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42881	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, before us the proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Reimbursement of Assets, is a very correct law, a law that has relatively few articles, and the Club of Independent Representatives and HSU will absolutely support it. I think that already someone in the debate mentioned, I could agree with that, it's one of those laws that could pass first, second reading, but I really appreciate and every opportunity I use to mention it, the decision that laws go into two readings is a good decision. A good decision for the simple reason that can be discussed can be obtained by one stitching consensus and one broader story. Similarly, we absolutely support the fact that the number of agencies, i.e. the number of funds, simply to join individual ministries or connect with each other, not because it is formally necessary to do so, but because it is necessary to look at the processes that are being carried out and then the processes that are being carried out are well done in one place. And that's where I come up with one topic that's already been set up, which I would really love and from this pay phone a little more emphasize is next. There's a problem with asset management. I was one of those who really stood up and I think it's a good thing that Croatia has a special ministry, a ministry that manages state property for the simple reason is that this way we give a message and talk about what property means, which means the way it should be managed. And it's not good for her to be around certain ministries, no matter what the Department of Defense, so it has its own properties that are their property, it's all in the possession of the state. Likewise, the Ministry of the Interior, it has the Ministry of Defence, and now, apparently, the Ministry of Finance will have it. It's always one problem. Unfortunate because you have to have a special service, a problem because then it always happens to you in a different way to manage, basic property when it comes to land, when it comes to housing, when it comes to business spaces, should be in one place. We really support this option that the operations of the fund go to the ministry as well as the employees, at the end of 2016, it was 31 employees, so I suppose that it will be deployed in appropriate ways, but according to the knowledge we have, which is that the Ministry of the Second Minister Marić, therefore who manages the property, has a lot of difficulty with the workforce, or rather with experts from each area, seems to me that it would be a good idea after this law abolishes the fund that maybe part of the employees go there for a simple reason to be more operational, because everything we talk about, we talk about and related to the property of the Republic of Croatia always have some problems and is always a characteristic of the slowness of the process. Long-term processes might be better done this way. So once again, we all have very short discussions, and since Mrs. Peric has been able to come, I don't have to talk much and wait for her now. We will uphold this law. We appreciate that it is good to reduce the number of units, so to reduce and join this fund with the Ministry of Finance. But you really need to think about business, about property, about moving property to the Department of Property Management, and it's probably going to be... This can be done by internal agreement, that perhaps even employees who have worked on these jobs have passed through to another ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42882	Thank you very much. We have a replica of an esteemed colleague, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42883	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I didn't answer to buy time. The truth and you spoke briefly but concisely and in such a short time you could say a lot, and in fact you said something that moved me to one thought again. I remember when you came to this Croatian Parliament to talk about it, too, but it's good to repeat that it is made known as much in our society as possible. In fact, you said it was good that the Ministry of State Property was formed, that it was managed by state property from one place, that it was not good for it to be sectorally fragmented, but to be in one place. However, I remember very well that we discussed that it is good for the Ministry of State Property to manage strategic real estate for the Republic of Croatia. However, it is not good to do so with units of local self-government and regional (area) self-government. Because it will be difficult for the ministry to manage certain properties, areas from Konaval to Ilock, or from Ilock to Istria. It would be where and where better. I think units of local self-government would go where and where better to manage that property than the Ministry of what you were talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42884	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42885	Thank you very much. Maybe we didn't understand each other until the end. So, property owned by the Republic of Croatia is property managed by the Ministry. Property owned by units of local self-government i.e. 556 municipalities and cities run by them. Maybe it's always convenient to mention other things. So when it was a buy-in of apartments then the law that was passed 90% of the funds went to local self-government units from the purchase of apartments and 10% to the state. The obligation of local self-government units to get out of that 90% which is still coming because people have taken to war, to deal with the problem of apartments of protected tenants, i.e. employers. And according to the last analysis I saw three years ago, the municipalities and cities, some of them solved it. Let's say the river is, there's a couple of apartments left. But someone who didn't solve it at all was Split, someone who didn't solve it at all or partially solved it was Zagreb. And that leaves you with a problem still. And now everyone is coming to the state for this problem, and the problem is, the legislator said from those means, go ahead and sort it out. So what we need to take care of is that the state manages its assets in the way that it should. But equally, not only through those reports that we get the auditor, but also in other ways that municipalities and cities manage their own assets. Otherwise, it is controlled in the elections, so you choose either not to choose a mayor or mayor who works well. But there are those who, when it comes to property, do well, there are those who, unlike each of us, know how much property they have. Believe it or not, a lot of municipalities and cities don't know how much property he has, but neither does the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42886	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42887	Thank you very much, esteemed President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here comes the first reading of this law. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted and adopted the 2016 National Reform Programme in April 2016 and announced the rationalisation of public administration systems and jobs. Therefore, the main objective and measure is to reduce the number of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal entities with public authority. The reduction may be carried out by transfer of powers to the competent ministries, but subject to maximum efficiency and with the retention of service quality to the end-user. Namely, as many of you know, the first law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law was passed back in '92. and as such he experienced numerous changes and additions and normal life sought many solutions during that period. And we have to say from personal practice that during that period a large part of the jobs and the establishment of the database itself have made funds in the residential and municipal economy in units of local self-government, so large cities and larger cities that actually had and had the most large housing units in their composition. Therefore, all these employees of these funds have done a large part of the work in terms of contract conclusion and all authentication procedures, etc. Because, as you know, contracts could have been made in a way that was either one time in conversion and payment in conversion foreign exchanges, and they could also have been paid in a routing manner, so up to a maximum of 32 years of payment. As the procedure continues, there is also a possibility that individual payments should be replaced in such a way that the remaining amount is paid once. Then there are also certain reliefs and benefits, and then owners or tenants of household rights can first register to their real estate without any burdens. These databases were made in the first years and the payments were made alone in the cities themselves, after some time, the Fund for the Compensation of Disposal of Assets, took over all these bases and took over the complete record of the conduct of the proceedings and ultimately all that was necessary to regulate these relations. All that was happening in that period, paying off in conversion foreign exchanges, what counterpart Mrak-Taritash mentioned, there were ratios which were and how much belonged to the cities and how much to the state itself. Since 97, they have actually started payment procedures for, from old foreign exchange savings, i.e. bonds that were then issued in those first legal decisions, that bonds could not be paid all at once, but there was an obligation to pay them out of 97 in 10 half-year meals, however, normally, as until 2000, in order to change the whole relationship in 2000, the law changed in a way that payments were made in 40 half-year meals and annuity coupons. Of the total value of the apartments, 55% goes into the state budget and 45% stays with local self-government units. Just what was mentioned by 45% of the local self-government unit was supposed to generally address all social, social housing needs and the resolution of property legal relations in the event of disputes. The state and state budget is through the Ministry of Construction to which we have paid these funds have been resolved by the letter of the law as strictly intended and all others, so the needs that are, like... And so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What the Compensation Fund has been doing and doing, so apart from the collection records and all other transactions, we know that it had a obligation to pay compensations in cash and bonds, based on powerful settlements on compensation. Also, from the competent offices of the state administration, according to the provisions of the law, during the time on the compensation of property seized, during the Yugoslav Communist Government, to be paid to the former owner, in addition, the Fund had the obligation and sale of nationalised and confiscated apartments, to the owners of tenants, i.e. protected tenants, under the conditions and in the manner prescribed by the Law of Receipts. We have to say that according to the data provided by the Fund, over 21 thousand contracts, therefore nationalised and confiscated apartments, of which 8 thousand and 381 contracts were contracted for payment, and of which more than 4 thousand and 900 refer only to the City of Zagreb. From 97' to 2013 the value of the contracts was over 970 million kuna. The Fund also took part in the party's capacity in all proceedings, in administrative proceedings conducted in courts, so he was also a prosecutor or prosecutor and was issuing these global bonds of the Republic of Croatia, which actually compensated for all that had to be paid in the previous period. In addition, the Fund participates in the implementation of the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia, in economic matters and what is important, indeed, now that a large part of the procedures have been completed and, according to the planned plan, these annuity coupons were to be paid last by 1.1.2019 now after the analysis made by the Ministry of Finance, the Fund, indeed in this way achieved most of its tasks, where in 2016 the Fund achieved more than 158 million kuna of income and also so much expenditure, with the surplus being achieved by the Ministry of Finance, the Fund, and had what should be said in 2015 unconditionally by the State Office for Auditing. The Fund employs 31 employees, and the most significant costs are expenditures on contractual penalties and damages, which amounted to over 148 million and 900 million, and related to compensation in money and bonds of more than 146 million kuna, and compensation to the Catholic Church for subtracted apartments of 2.3 million kuna. The staff costs themselves were 4.4% of total expenditure and much lower were material costs. So, in order to make the national programme mentioned above, we believe that the Ministry of Finance has truly assessed, by all analyses, that we are doing a better, more efficient and rational public administration and, following the provisions of the law which says that employees and assets, rights, obligations and food are being taken over, and the financial means for the Ministry of Finance to actually take over such funds and employee schedules in such a way that this new establishment unit can carry out as well as possible and continue the work that the fund has worked in quality. And here's on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I hope we adopt a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42888	There was no replica. The next debate should be an individual debate between counterpart Mira Bulja, but since he is not in the assembly, he is losing his right to debate and we are therefore turning to the final address on behalf of the proponents of state secret Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42889	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the support and very concrete and correct remarks and suggestions that we will certainly take into account in the development of a final bill, and also with useful advice regarding the other law that is closely related to this, which is the Property Compensation Act taken away during the Yugoslav communist rule. What I would like to point out briefly is that Mr. Lalovec has legitimately asked some questions about the future operations of the fund, until when they will exist, whether they exist now, etc., so of course the fund continues to carry out a significant part of the work, but these jobs are being eroded and their intensity is shrinking. We saw only 15 apartment sales contracts were concluded in 2016. In 2016, however, the benefits for compensation authorities were slightly higher, but these transactions are exacerbating. The Fund performs tasks related to administrative and judicial procedures, bond management and binding stakes, however, these transactions will end more or less in mid- 2019 because the latest annuity comes in July 2019. Jobs related to the payment of apartments are, of course, still being paid to about 7.5 thousand apartments, but these jobs will also be significantly reduced in the next two, three years. What is important and what I pointed out during my opening debate is that people from the fund have significant experience in the area of complementary public debt management. So the fund is a single issuer of global bonds, so far there have been five and have experience in the preparation and issue of bonds, in the management of bond shares, in monitoring the payment of liabilities per loan, in cooperation with the central... depositary society, etc. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance, in its jurisdiction, has public debt management jobs, and it is precisely those jobs that need to be gained in the coming years. The Ministry of Finance has, as I said, brought in, or... The public debt management strategy, but also through a number of other documents, our own, but also the European Commission and other institutions, stresses the importance of public debt management within the Ministry of Finance. So, following the amendment to the Internal Design Regulation, public debt management operations are raised to the level of administration and what the Ministry of Finance wants is and must certainly, further strengthen the Public Debt Management Administration, and that is where we see the good synergy of people who now exist in the fund, who have certain knowledge and experience, and the need for it to stop within the framework of the Fund in about two years, use these potentials, use these skills, attach them to the Ministry of Finance and give them space to give them the knowledge and experience of the use of this right in public debt management. Therefore, the aim is to increase the efficiency and integration of similar and identical transactions that exist today in different state administration bodies. Here's what I want to point out. As I said, we'll appreciate what we heard here today and come very quickly with a final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42890	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We are now going to vote at discussed points. The first is the proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for Compensation of property, first reading, P.Z. No. 123. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the Compensation of Assets and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 126 votes for, 1 abstentions, as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42893	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Fellow MPs, MPs. Today we have a law on the integrity of the credit agreement with an international mark concluded in the Republic of Croatia. The law was created as a consequence of endangering citizens with the aim of protecting them and protecting their property, a violated public and constitutional order. The aim of the public and constitutional order is when the integrity is violated by legislative means when it is necessary or through courts and other state institutions and bodies. It is precisely for the protection of public and constitutional order and the protection of the rights and values guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia in order to protect and exercise the rights of Croatian citizens guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Declaration of Rights of Human and Citizens with the aim of regulating the rights and obligations of participants in legal traffic, citizens, OPG and craftsmen with residence and residence in the Republic of Croatia, as well as legal persons established in the Republic of Croatia, as well as other participants with legal persons established outside the Republic of Croatia who were not authorised to carry out their business activities without the authorisation of the CNB referred to in Article 33(1) and (2) of the Law on Banks and Financial Institutions. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the Ministry of Finance, the Commercial Court and other state bodies without whose permission credit operations are not permitted within the meaning of the Law on Banks and the Law on Financial Institutions. This law regulates certain credit and other relations between such participants. The equality and equality of all legal entities established by the Constitution is defined in Article 16. The Law on Mandatory Relations which regulates participants to be a mandatory relationship between a natural and a legal person. Whenever possible and justified laws are adopted for their universal application i.e. compared to all the participants. This case is just like that. Certain unauthorized creditors with an international mark have used legal gaps and the state's unpreparedness to protect themselves and have also made a parallel financial system through unauthorized intermediaries with a grey incursion into the foreign exchange system in ten years of their activities. After the disclosure, however, the illegal credit activity, however, remained extremely complex consequences in the judicial, judicial, social, financial system and in other segments of society and state. Those who have already suffered the damage need to be provided with a legal framework in order to satisfy the sought-out justice and provide protection by Croatian institutions. All the political structures and all the state bodies have compromised the legal order by inaction and indolence and left the citizens unprotected by the hunting of lenders and frauds. It is important to say that this is not political or party law, but rather a law intended to protect citizens. The problem with savings credit cooperatives that had not been authorised by the competent business institutions is being raised from the 7th session of the Assembly at 8th and now in the 9th assembly of the Assembly. Credit cooperatives enter the scene in 2000 when they started offering people loans. Representatives of cooperatives did not verify the creditworthiness which is the usual practice for all financial institutions issuing loans, such provision was also laid down in the Consumer Credit Act, Article 8. The key question is why they didn't do it. Where each credit institution should have a fundamental objective of collecting its claims and, here, it can be concluded that the main motives of such a business were to usurp assets and real estate primarily those by the sea with great value. At the beginning, interest was one 2% and over time there was a sudden upward trend and interest increased to 10%. Non-information of debtors who were mostly unemployed is putting their feet in front of a blind man especially when we know that such credit institutions had no right to operate in the Republic of Croatia at all. The strategy of the savings-credit cooperatives was focused on Croatian islands such as Rab, Thank you, Pag, Korčula etc., so on Rab Island we even have 10% of the total population that has taken loans from controversial savings. The cooperatives themselves have admitted that there are about 3,000 contracts with Croatian citizens, although we consider it to be a much larger number. In practice, it was one-sided forms of the contract from Austria signed in Croatia, money was carried in bags across the Croatian border and very few people received payments in the bank account. Such contracts and unilateral forms are contrary and Council Directives of Europe 93-13/EEC. Many debtors did not even receive the full amount of credit and are charged for the full amount. So far, more than 500 raids have been carried out, destroying a large number of families with as many as 10 suicides. We could testify even yesterday about a delegation here in Zagreb directed by the same credit cooperatives. A large number of people are suffering from financial problems and any demographic policies lose their sense of purpose when Croatian citizens are in debt slavery. Credits from cooperatives were negotiated through intermediaries who received fees from the credit office directors themselves for racketeering and interesting Croatian citizens. Some intermediaries received as much as 30% of the total amount of credit. A parallel, illegal foreign exchange system was created that HNB, HANFA, Tax Administration and DORH failed to detect, control and take compatible measures. The State was tax-damaged for huge money, employees, cooperative directors and their associates established companies in the Republic of Croatia through which they purchased the property of credit users who ended up in the states because they knew at the time of granting credit that the credit users were not at all creditworthy and would not be able to repay those loans in practice. The agreed interest was extremely high, at twice the legal tightening interest rate in the Republic of Austria, and the loan users were not given any payment plan, nor were they given general operating conditions that first appeared in court proceedings. Cash cash cash payment was made in Austria, and money entered Croatia illegally and it was impossible to control these cash flows. And due to unknown formulas for increasing principals and calculating interest and other data that credit users could not come to, credits in practice could not be paid back. The purpose of the adoption of this law is of multiple economic importance, the grey parallel financial system will be eliminated, delayed or suspended, and those responsible for the damages of mandatory and legal affairs will receive a major warning that Croatia will no longer be subject to illegal work. By implementing illegal and illegal acts, by evicting citizens from their homes without citizens having the necessary legal and constitutional protection within the framework of the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, human rights and freedoms guaranteed directly by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the Declaration of Human Rights. Here I also appeal to all MPs, to support this bill, because this bill is indeed intended to protect citizens who are damaged by credit cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42894	Thank you, fellow Skiboli. There are two replicas, the first distinguished colleague of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42895	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Scybol, I followed your debate and I'll ask you a question. In fact, my colleague Alexic and I have given this law one amendment. This amendment is in line with the EU Regulation, so-called We have provided for the application of this law and those consumer contracts, I stress consumer contracts so as not to create doubts that this also applies to commercial contracts concluded by legal persons with creditors who may have been concluded outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, but are concluded as a consequence of the activities of creditors on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So let me get this straight. If, for example, a Polish citizen in a Polish bank took a loan to buy a holiday home in Croatia, this law does not apply to him because the Polish bank did not advertise in Croatia. I'm sorry, not the law, but the amendment. The Polish bank did not advertise in Croatia, nor did it have its intermediaries, nor did it have its agents inviting debtors here. However, credit cooperatives are. And they came here, here they dragged people by the sleeve, and many of the contracts were eventually concluded outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. If this amendment is not accepted, one neighbour who is in charge of the same cooperative and solemnizes the contract in Croatia will be able to apply it and will be able to release the shackles, another neighbor who has travelled to Klagenfurt, for example, for the conclusion of the contract, will not. Given the above, I didn't hear your statement. Please, as a proposer, consider whether you accept the amendment submitted by your colleague Alexic and I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42897	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. As far as the amendment is concerned, we will show ourselves on Friday, when the vote on the amendment itself comes, but in the context of this topic that you have raised, I would like to refer you to a recent Constitutional Court solution that says "The subject legal transactions of the conclusion of the loan agreement are concluded in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, in front of the Croatian public notary. The believer, or credit intermediary in the Republic of Croatia, was professionally engaged in bank operations, credit-giving operations. Therefore, the legal work in question shall be subject to the provisions of Croatian regulations, i.e. Croatian regulations, to determine the validity of such credit agreements." The regulations of the Republic of Croatia are laid down that the believer or credit intermediary must have the authorisation to provide consumer credit services issued by the competent authority. The purpose of such a provision is to protect the domestic banking market and its business in order to prevent uncertain financial business and the instability of the domestic banking market. In law in this Constitutional Court resolution, it refers to your observations, i.e. in the very replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42898	Second replica of distinguished counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42899	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear counterpart Škibola, at one point you were contradictory, you said that credit institutions were carrying out their activities in the Republic of Croatia unauthorized and you mentioned the country's negligentness and inadequacy and today we actually see the proposal of this law in the Croatian Assembly of this Law on the value of the contract in the Croatian Parliament. So, the state is an institution that takes particular care of endangered citizens, endangered categories in our society, and me and all of us here have empathy for these people, but you haven't talked about the users themselves, so even the users should have known for the public's sake it's good to say it, and they should have known that they weren't creditworthy, that they were getting those loans at interest since I knew it, 2% or 3% and that's also a fact. But one question for you. What when it comes to, say, accomplished citizens, and what about this executive property being sold? What in that moment, what will happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42900	Replication response, fellow Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42901	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. My colleague Bacic's first question was whether the contracts were in Croatia or Austria as far as I understood. So, mostly contracts were signed in Croatia. This means that if credit cooperatives were allowed to credit Croatian citizens, and these credit cooperatives had no relevant permits, that means that the state as a regulator was not effective. So we can't take responsibility for the citizens. Normally, they have a personal responsibility, but their personal responsibility for them signing those loans, believe that they paid for it. They really paid for it because living in these torments and in that fear that every day the police can come to your house and depose you, it's in no way pleasant. I can't remember yet who was part of yours, related to the accomplished citizens. So, there in the law it's regulated that for those people, they're cooperatives already, is that they've delegated citizens and executed real estate, if the property was sold to a third party when it was found in a court of law that no property could be returned because it was already sold to a third party. However, financial damage will have to be made to the market value that has not been established at the public auction but before the public auction itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42902	Thank you. Now we'll see if the committee's reporters will take the floor? No, I don't. So then I would like to request further explanation of the government's representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice of the Honorable Kristian Turkalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42903	Dear MPs, the proposal for a law on the integrity of a credit agreement with an international mark concluded in the Republic of Croatia with a final proposal for a law, hence that law, the adoption of that law by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, supports. It supports what the representative proposed to establish the integrity of the credit agreement with an international mark concluded in the Republic of Croatia, which was concluded by unauthorized creditors, i.e. creditors who engaged illegally in lending as an activity in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. they did not have the necessary approval of the competent authorities, nor did they have a seat, residence or office in the Republic of Croatia. We consider this important because it is necessary to protect citizens from unauthorized creditors. However, in order to further improve both legal and nomotechnically the quality of the text, the government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed 11 amendments. In the first amendment, therefore, it is proposed to change the name of the law itself, that it better corresponds to the content of the legal text, and it is said that the law should read the law on the integrity of the credit agreement with the International Marks concluded in the Republic of Croatia with an unauthorized believer. The second amendment makes it clear what the law applies to, the same scope is extended to other legal acts concluded in the Republic of Croatia between debtors and unauthorized creditors created as a consequence or based on an international credit agreement. In the amendment, in the third amendment, we therefore define the terms which we considered necessary to define. These are the concepts of debtors, unauthorized creditors and credit agreements with an international mark. As regards amendments 4 to 7, they are primarily legal-nomotechnical improvements in text. Then Amendment number 8. It prescribes the consequences of integrity so that the consequences of the integrity of this law are duly applied to the provisions on the consequences of the contract under the law governing mandatory relations. Then Amendment number nine. In Amendment 9 we also legally and nomotechnically edit Article 8. Amendment 10 provides that credit agreements with an international mark are concluded until the date of entry into force of this Law on the Republic of Croatia between debtors and unauthorized creditors. And we say that that provision was necessary because the goal could not be achieved in another way. And we finally have amendment number 11. That regulates the entry into force in a nomotechnically higher quality. There, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42904	I would like to thank Secretary of State Christian Turkalj. There was no replica, so let's move on to a club debate. It is the first club to represent the Living Wall and SNAGA fellow Goran Aleksic. I see Ivan Pernar is after him. Or you'll be alone, I don't know. I don't see a colleague of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42905	Thank you, Your Honor. So, we have before us a bill that I hope will be passed by consensus, that no one will be against that law, because this law protects citizens who are damaged by the action, by the illegal action of foreign cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia. These cooperatives were not authorised to lend loans to the Republic of Croatia. Their intermediaries were not authorized to act in the way they acted. At the time they acted, the state didn't do anything to stop it, so I believe that because of that, it may not have had enough knowledge of it. It was often said that the CNB was supposed to prevent it, this time, I have to say that the CNB really couldn't prevent it, because the CNB only has jurisdiction on legal institutions, not illegal institutions. Some other authorities are dealing with illegal institutions, not the CNB. However, it is important that we finally have this solution on the table and it is important that we finally make this solution. I don't know how familiar you are, but the association I come from, the Frank Association is actually the first one to start pushing the idea of getting rid of it to finally stop it. So we need to remember the Law on Amendments and Supplements, the Consumer Credit Act, where, at the same time, the provisions on the conversion of CHF credit are solved seemingly and the problem of foreign cooperatives. However, in the courts there was a problem, the courts interpreted that Chapter 4B of the Consumer Credit Act was not retroactively applied, and therefore, such contracts, where prosecutors called for this chapter 4B, did not make such contracts invalid, considering that these provisions of the law only apply to contracts that were concluded after the law was passed, which is, in fact, a certain non-sens, because after the adoption of that law, such contracts were neither at all. So I was right here in the Parliament trying to lobby with all MPs, so that this chapter 4B is changed in a way that is retroactive and applies to all credit agreements, no matter how much the amount is agreed in a particular loan contract. And it went in some direction, however, I failed to reach the end. Among other things, the Consumer Credit Act only talks about natural persons, doesn't talk about legal persons and the situation that happened, Marin Skibola has shown that he is a skilled politician and has managed to push through this solution, to bring it in and I am very pleased that it has happened and I am glad that this has happened and I will personally support this law and I believe that all other MPs will support him. My colleague Grbin and I have proposed one amendment under a regulation binding on the Republic of Croatia. The amendment we have proposed, even if not accepted, is binding on the Republic of Croatia, but it is better to accept and put such provisions into the law, because when something is put into the law it is much more visible, much more obvious and in that case no questions are asked where it is written. It's in Croatian law. What's the amendment doing? A very simple situation is being solved, which can be complicated. In a court of law, it will be necessary to prove that a specific contract is concluded in the Republic of Croatia. It is possible that the court does not accept the prosecution's argument, because it is the fact that things have been happening here. The contract could have been signed by the president of the cooperative administration, e.g. in Austria, and the prosecutor who took the loan could have signed it in the Republic of Croatia. Then it happened that the money was raised in Austria and was transferred to Croatia, that it was soloized in Croatia, and that it may be solemnized in Austria as well. The amendment is very simple. He speaks of the fact that, if a cooperative had its intermediaries who acted illegally in the Republic of Croatia and who, just as his colleague Grbin said, invited debtors to contract such loans, would not be asked the question, where the contract was contracted, but would automatically invite those intermediaries to sign such contracts in the Republic of Croatia, it would automatically become clear that such a contract is worthless, that such a contract is not allowed to be concluded and that such contract simply does not apply. And there won't be any need to prove where he's locked up. It will only be necessary to prove that some mediator invited the particular prosecutor to negotiate his contract with a particular cooperative. And that is why the amendment is very important and very important and in the conversation with several lawyers representing prosecutors in such situations, they even told me that if such a provision is not put into the law, that a large number of debtors will not welcome justice. I trust these lawyers because they've been working on this problem for a long time. As for those questions that were raised to Mr. Scybol about those debtors who have already been done and whose legal work has already been completed, unfortunately, the legal affairs that have been completed cannot be part of that law. Such is the decision of the Constitutional Court and when it assessed the constitutionality of the conversion, where it made it clear what retroactivity was allowed in certain legal matters. If any legal work is still going on, the law may be applied to it. If a legal job is finished, the law no longer applies to such legal work. So those perpetrators, who have already been executed, will be able to demand their right in court in other ways. And they'll be able to call on this nothingness, but in a way, to say here you see, Mr. Judge, my neighbor had the same kind of credit and his credit was worthless, his contract was worthless, because the law was applied to him. This law has not been applied to me because my legal work has been done, but you, too, sir, would need such a contract to be harmful and in accordance with the consequences of nothingness to judge what I am looking for. Here's what's going to look like, and I'm sorry that a lot of people are already done, I'm sorry that many people have already been decommissioned, I'm sorry that this law came relatively late for many people, but it's good that it came on the agenda and now I'm appealing to all the MPs to vote for this law. I appeal to the motioner to accept the amendment of my colleagues, the coat of arms and I want the debtors who have submitted such credits to happiness in their future and to succeed in their efforts to finally stop the dishonesty that has been going on for years. I'll leave my colleague Peranre's pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42906	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42907	Dear ladies and gentlemen. In the case of these loans granted by unauthorized creditors without CNB's permission, one problem arises. Namely, what's going on? Believer of RBA cooperative e.g. Feels that in the future the contract could be declared harmless and what does the RBA do? RBA pushes real estate to auction, force, and sell the property to its sister's firm by speed measures. So, for example, in Motovun, or as that place near Motovun was called the Brkač company, the Raiffeisen cooperative sold at an auction in the executive procedure of a real estate company called R.B.U. Real estate owned by the same Raiffeisen cooperative. And what's going on? Although, for example, the same persons who work at the RBA are also at R.B.U. Although the real estate is essentially the same legal person only she is legally separated, we come to the fact that even if the contract is declared to be harmful, the daughter companies will continue to delegate these people. Imagine what kind of paradox that is. So we're passing a law aimed at protecting the perpetrators from illegal cooperatives, and illegal cooperatives through a daughter's company and after the declaration of nothingness continue with the raids. And for that reason, on behalf of the Living Wall Club, I have proposed an amendment that reads as follows, he says that if the property is already sold at the auction that the perpetrator cannot be delegated until, watch the thought, until it is determined whether the loan contract is originally worthless or not. If he was useless, he must return the real estate to the perpetrator. Now someone's gonna say ok it's not fair you might look, you were buying real estate at auctions you knew that RBA cooperatives or those unauthorized creditors were doing business in a murky way, so the property you acquired in such legal affairs can't be sacred cows. Because here he's trying to imply that God's legal work is done. What does that mean for a man who's been deluded by, say, Mr. Milanovic who voted for the SDP from Brkač? This law, even if it hadn't been for the other day, would not have saved him again. So we've proposed an amendment that if the property was sold at the auction of an unauthorized believer to stop the eviction process, that is. that the executioner cannot be delegated until the contract has been established whether or not the contract has been damaged. If our provision is not accepted, it will come to the fact that the acquisitions will continue in practice, meaning the acquisitions of R.B.U. Real estate will continue to depose people, and they have already entered hundreds of properties. And now what are you going to say? You'll tell Pernar if he likes to be declared worthless by them he'll get his money back. And you know what's gonna happen, that I'm illegal. The RBA cooperative that did business without the CNB's approval which I would have done, here's the most banal solution. Your claims mean the loans I return to another person, I say give them to me. You today can settle your claims to another, and the obligations remain on me. And you can have the situation that these RBA cooperatives become companies of ghosts without any property, without any capital and then the executioner can charge back from them but essentially only in theory because in practice these legal persons will be without any capital and will not be able to charge. In other words, he ate the donkey wolf. And that's a scenario waiting for us unless our amendment is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42908	Thank you. We have four replicas, three for a colleague, Alexic, one for a colleague of Pernar. Well, here we go, the first distinguished colleague is Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42909	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Alexic. During the debate, you spoke of an amendment that you and I submitted about the reasons behind and why you think it should be adopted. However, before your debate, I have replicated my fellow Scybols asking him to, as a promoter, show whether he is in agreement with such an amendment, and he has quoted a Constitutional Court decision as being related to the replica. However, it personally seems to me that this decision does not apply to our amendment because in that decision it speaks of contracts concluded in the Republic of Croatia, there is no dispute at all, they are covered by this law. And you and I, on the other hand, have submitted an amendment that speaks of contracts that are not concluded in the Republic of Croatia but on the basis of the European international private right to them because consumer contracts, because the believer had business activity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, should apply the law of the Republic of Croatia. Now, since there are obviously no doubts about whether or not you should accept this amendment in the light of what you have said during all the debates, I ask you to consider whether, in view of such an indication, I should continue to insist on accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42910	Reply to the replica of counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42911	Thank you, Your Honor. I agree with you, and we should all continue to insist that this amendment is adopted because what is written in the Constitutional Court's decision does not have much to do with our amendment because the Constitutional Court's decision only speaks of contracts concluded in the Republic of Croatia. And the problem arises if in a court of law someone tries to prove that he concluded a contract in the Republic of Croatia but the court will, for example, have. the opinion that no contract has been concluded in the Republic of Croatia because it has been signed by the President of the cooperative administration, for example. in Austria. So he'll say, I'm sorry, but he's locked up in Austria. So that Constitutional Court decision is good but it has nothing to do with our amendment and our amendment actually extends the rights of our consumers, I stress the consumer, not the legal person, and there is no reason not to accept that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42912	Second replica, dear colleague Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42913	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Alexic, I basically support this law and I also said that to the Committee on Finance, but there are a lot of questions about this law. It's always said that someone invited citizens to take loans. Well, look, there are always loans offered, true, you claim and I believe that these credit cooperatives were not the authority to operate on the Croatian market, but ultimately these citizens decided whether or not they would take the loan. It was clearly more acceptable to take a loan with 2.3% interest than to credit institutions registered in the Republic of Croatia where loans were significantly higher. And it's been going on for years, ten years. I can't believe the state institutions didn't know this was happening and apparently someone thought it was kind of legal. It also raises a number of these questions whether the loans are made in Croatia, as far as in Croatia, you yourself have said, how possibly in Austria, can we dispute something with this law if our citizen has concluded a loan in Austria with a savings-credit cooperative that is still operating in Austria today, so at least we are presented at the Committee's session. So I'm afraid that we don't get into one problem, it's said here that the Croatian state will have no obligation under this law and I'm afraid that the Croatian state will assume certain obligations by adopting this law and that those who gave loans, which are these savings-credit cooperatives, will have the opportunity to seek their rights under this law by the Croatian state. I hope it is not so because in these 11 amendments proposed by the Government I believe that this law will still be passed, that it will benefit all citizens but that we do not put ourselves in a position that then the state returns something that the citizens have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42914	Reply to the replica of counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42915	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow, you can see that they really invited citizens, they shouldn't have done it in the Republic of Croatia like it's not legal to sell drugs, so it's not legal to offer loans if you don't have permission. And secondly, consumer rights are something bigger than legal rights, far greater actually. In fact, whoever offers loans must warn the consumer of the risks arising from this loan. Such non-legislative credit institutions have not done so. And as for interest 2, 3% points, so I saw credits with 8%, 9% interest rates, so not only 2.3%, I didn't see 2.3%, but I saw just 8%, 7%, 6%, so they weren't low interest rates, but they were not credit-worthy. Therefore, credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia should not lend credit to those who are not creditworthy. On the contrary, they invited people and gave them loans even though people were not creditworthy. Consumers are above all not obliged to know what credit is, but are compulsory credit institutions. And precisely because the credit institutions that are legal institutions have rules of conduct they examine the creditworthiness of borrowers. And they won't give credit to anyone who's not creditworthy. So that's exactly what crime lies in, that these institutions gave loans to people who were not creditworthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42916	Next is the line with his replica, the esteemed colleague of Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42917	Dear fellow Alexic, I have raised a replica of your findings and can agree with it that all good laws come a little late or too late because there are already many damaged people. Several times in the Croatian Parliament, I myself proposed laws that were, they corrected the injustices but came late and there are many damaged people. What I wanted to add to your exposure is that this yellow institution that we are discussing has high creativity and ambition to deal with everything and everything. In fact, the public is less known that this institution, or one of their children, was also engaged in the purchase of pensions, and it is not authorised because the Pension Insurance Companies Act is not registered anywhere, there have been attempts to sign it up, that these pension insurance companies can be engaged in the purchase of pensions. And they did it in one way that they offered unlimited pensions, that they took it as a retirement, and they placed it as a third pension pillar, so they did a kind of tax fraud, or tax evasion, and all these years nothing. Instead, if they had gotten caught up in some way, the person who dealt with it legally was the one who will discuss it here in this House, those 3 thousand 850 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who decided to collect pensions and who had no other choice or that or nothing and were ultimately damaged for those amounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42918	Reply to the replica of counterpart Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42919	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues of Hrelja, credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia who are legal, are also trying in every way possible to avoid what is not exactly prescribed in the law. So we have such a fact that these credit institutions, among other things, and this yellow you're talking about, during the CHF credit era, brought out a total of 7 and a half billion kuna extra profits through the off-balance sheet, through derivatives, that 7 and a half billion kuna is actually the cost of conversion because that's the difference of course, but that 7 and a half billion kuna of the mother's bank, they didn't lose. This was lost by domestic banks because it ended up in the banks for mothers and without a single kuna of taxes, one single kuna of taxes. And now more than seven and a half billion kunas were allowed to have a tax exemption. Of course, it had to be done because the state had to in some way when it secured the conversion of CHF credit, it had to give banks some kind of relief, and that's okay. But we must not forget the fact that banks are in every way trying to earn extra profits that are not legal. Unfortunately, this derivatives thing is legal, but it's not moral. It's not moral to take people 7 and a half billion kuna, take the state 7 and a half billion kuna and not charge that tax. The other thing that is criminal and evidence in the collective court dispute was illegal interest rates. Banks have earned about 10 billion kuna through an illegal increase in interest rates. Those 10 billion kuna citizens can win in court but unfortunately, the courts are slow. That's why I've prepared a bill for the return of overpaid interest that you signed in support. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42920	Thank you. And now we have one replica of an esteemed colleague of the Scybols sent to a colleague of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42921	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Here's what I wanted to replicate to Pernar in terms of what he was saying could happen if the dissections continued until it was determined that the contract was worthless. Article 6 of the amendment of the Government, which we have agreed together, states that the subparagraph 1 states "if the claims made under the credit agreement with international features within the meaning of this law are made, it will lead to an executive case against the debtor who has filed the action for the purpose of establishing the integrity of the credit agreement or of establishing the integrity of the public note act based on a worthless contract by the court on the proposal of the debtor, it will delay the exercise until the finalisation of the insolvency procedure, not questioning after the other laws of the prescribed assumptions on the delay of the performance on the proposal of the perpetrators." And as for a third party, if the property has already been handed over to a third party, then that third party cannot be included in all of this together and we cannot be able to take a third party's property because it was not at all a participant of these items that, either illegal legal actions or anything else, so that, as defined in Article 7 di, says "any Contracting Party is obliged to pay back to another all that it has received on the basis of a zero contract, and if that is not possible or if the nature of what is fulfilled is contrary to the return, it shall be given adequate compensation in respect of the prices at the time of the judgment."
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42922	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42923	Thank you. You mentioned a third party. Here's why I'm going to give you an example of a third party. So, RBU Real Estate d.o.o., registered in Burle 7, Medulin, its owner is a 100% Reifeisen Bank... Austria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The board members are three Austrians... What's this about? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's that these third parties, who had no idea, basically knew exactly what it was about, because they killed the executive, so both RBA cooperatives and RBU Real Estates are essentially the same legal person, or they're formally legal, two legal persons... But de facto they're the same team or the same group, and if you're being deposed by RBU Real Estate, like you're being delegated by RBA and vice versa, that's what I'm saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm interested, too, in the essential question. What if it's already sold to a third person? For example. RBU Real Estate. Dal RBU's real estate company will be able to delegate the perpetrator despite the fact that with RBA the loan cooperative in the future will be declared worthless. I think that the current law does not clearly define that part and that it will simply, in principle, not as it is said, which is not explicitly written, be able to bypass, or say, look, it was a hole in the law. And just to avoid the possibility of so-called. The gaps in the law I wanted to be explicitly clear that in such situations the execution is not possible, i.e. secretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42924	We move on to the next debate of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists and Honorable counterpart Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42925	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I will say immediately that the MOST Club will support this legislative proposal because any initiative that goes in the direction of helping those who are most vulnerable is welcome. Also, I personally believe that the amendment should be supported by colleagues Alexic and the coat of arms. But of course, the MOST Club will still consider, along with the amendment proposed by fellow Pernar. The fact is, it has been mentioned here several times that certain creditors took advantage of legal gaps, and through their unauthorized intermediaries made credit relations, credit agreements, and that by warning fellow Alexic that they often concluded with those people who had no credit ability either in a way that they were being drugged or people were in this situation that they could not continue to get credit, so this credit that was offered to them and accepted it. What I would like to warn you, despite our support for this legislative proposal, is that this law will resuscitate and significantly reduce the consequences for at least 100,000 citizens. We must be very careful, what we certainly must not do here in this High House to give people hope for something that may not be feasible in practice, and that is what colleagues have warned them about. In fact, we also have the practice of courts so far, it has been warned in this legislative proposal and it says that this bill removes any doubt as to the integrity of the contract concluded by an unauthorized believer with an international character and that such a contract is worthless. However, a long time has passed, the introduction of retroactive application from the above provisions of this proposal has been regulated for particularly justified reasons, as the disputed contracts have been concluded between 2000 and 2010. So, it's been quite a while, and the question here is mentioned, and what about the properties that have been sold to a third party, which in that case will be taken. And in this regard, we also believe that Article 7 is, in fact, the most problematic, because it defines these relations that are spoken of. And I'll read the explanation. In particular, significant consequences for the achievement of legal certainty and the establishment of the rule of law are laid down in Article 7 of this proposal of the law. The contractor responsible for the conclusion of a worthless contract shall be relatively justly obliged to return things to a situation that preceded the conclusion of a zero contract and, in particular, depending on which stage, the executive procedure in which they entered into or the enforcement procedure was terminated. A final party which is not to blame for the conclusion of a worthless contract should receive satisfaction and a sense of legal certainty and a sense of established rule of law guaranteed by the Constitution. However, Article 7(2) states: “A contractor who is not responsible for the conclusion of a zero contract shall be liable to another contractor who is responsible for the conclusion of a zero contract to return the total amount received on which no interest is charged.” And now the question is actually raised if, at the moment and the conclusion of such a contract, it is useless that it will be possible for that person to return at this time or the legal person to the money he received at that time, if he was already incapacitated. And in the end, I would conclude with only one thought that my colleague Alexic opened. So, it's about time, it's about many stages that have occurred, and it's actually a logical question that isn't even legal. How something that started illegally can be at any stage legally. What probably cannot be incorporated into the law, and it should be considered when something rests on an illegal basis simply needs to be annulled and it would be the final judgment. However, counterpart Aleksic warned that this would not work, that those things in the process would have to continue at the pace they started. And in that sense, I would like to warn once again that we must be very careful not to give people hope that will not then be fulfilled in practice. In any case, the MOST club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42926	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42927	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Žagar, the Constitutional Court has made such a decision, the Constitutional Court has decided on the basis of EU law, because it is the EU's right that we must respect that the legal affairs that last may be, they can be subject to the law and the legal affairs that have been done to them no longer apply the law. That's right, it's the rules of the game that we have to respect. If we did not comply with such game rules, then the Constitutional Court would declare such a provision unconstitutional and then it would fall in the Constitutional Court and make no sense to prescrib something that will not pass in the Constitutional Court. If we already have the Constitutional Court's right to respect it, and it is in accordance with EU law, I say. That's what this is about. However, this does not prevent people who have been damaged by any conduct by any unfair participants in legal traffic in the Republic of Croatia from trying to prove that their contract has been worthless since the beginning. And a law like this will certainly help them. And the courts could, despite the fact that the law does not apply to legal work that has been completed, make sense that if something was harmful to one who still has such a contract, then it is useless for one who no longer has such a contract. That tells me my logic, my legal logic. I'm not a lawyer, but we all have to be kind of lawyers because the laws apply to us all. So, even though we're not lawyers, we have to read the laws, we have to understand them and we have to apply them in a logical way and in a theological way. Because strictly limited law enforcement is not good. All laws should be observed theologically, therefore, should be observed in the spirit of the law, not bureaucratic, limited, and exclusively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42928	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42929	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Alexic and I believe so. There are people who have more knowledge than expertise. And often it comes from being used in elemental logic. So here logic is clear, and that's where I agree with you. If something is illegal, it is mentioned here in the law, the bill, that it is the believer who made such contracts. But it's not mentioned here, someone said it, it's the institutions, it's the state who let it happen. And that's actually the problem. I have unitedly taken the opportunity to congratulate my fellow Scybols on this proposal, and I have been a signator of this initiative. And I deeply believe and hope that we will succeed what you said, that this legal proposal will help these people, use all the resources at their disposal, to ultimately protect their fundamental human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42930	Thank you very much. Before I give my word further, I would like to draw attention to you, if at the gallery are currently children of children's forums of the association of our children of Croatia, with members of the alliance, so we warmly welcome them... As you are informed through the Clubs of Representatives, 12 children's forums will be held today with representatives in the Croatian Assembly, so I ask those who have the opportunity to be included in this meeting program at 12:00 in the Hall of Josip Šokčević, i.e. in the small town hall, to hear the messages that children, members of children's forums bring to us. [[Applause.]] At times, it is good to listen to the messages of young ones, or children. Now we're going back to the point of discussion. And now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative Josip Boris will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42932	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's something I want to say about the proposal for a law on the integrity of a credit agreement with an international mark concluded in the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the HDZ Club. I think it may also be necessary in the debate to say that we came here to discuss the meaning of a law like this here in the Croatian Parliament today. I think that through the debate, it is also important to highlight the problems that have arisen in the past and that might arise in the future. If we were to meet means the relations we had between financial institutions that did not have a business license and they placed loans in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I also want to say why we at the HDZ Club support the adoption of this law and what the Government has proposed, along with a representative who wrote the basic draft, through its amendments so that this law has a clear structure and that they can bring it into the Assembly as a new part in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. What I certainly want to say in the beginning is that we do not want to judge or arbitration here today in the assembly that we have not done before in terms of who is right, who is wrong in these relationships, who is better or worse gone, I think it is the task of all of us as MPs than to really clearly discuss all the provisions of the law that should finally solve what we have been seeking in the past. And that is to determine in some way the legality or illegality of the work that is going on in the past and which might happen in the future. Because today I will not, of course, name anyone state or bank because the law itself makes it clear that it should not be. In my introduction, I will only read one excerpt of several debtors, witnesses, hundreds of them who have spoken in recent years to Croatian institutions and have sought the protection of the state and these institutions. They were looking for the basics and we discussed it a lot in this assembly to establish the legality or illegality of the business that took place in this financial relationship between the believer and the debtor with the international contract, i.e. an international contract. So here's just a quote from some witnesses who filed criminal charges to the police, who came to the state's attorney's office, who gave it very often and publicly so we can get a certain impression of why this law is necessary. I quote: Certain credit agreements are only signed, each signed and stamped. And there are no signatures or seals in some. Upon the arrival of the mediator who received a commission with credit agreements, the credit user signed the same at any of the intermediaries in his office, either at the lawyer's office, either in the public note office or in the catering facility, cafe, restaurant, etc. Following the carrying out of the cargo book and obtaining the ownership list with the enrolment, the credit user was invited to another country to receive the money in the name of the credit. Many debtors found out that instead of one real estate and land under that property that was given as a deposit or mortgage to a loan, that someone had signed up for a full volume stake that used to count 20 properties. So he signed up for everything. On arrival in that other country, there is a payment in a way that is paid in a separate room at the hands of the amount of credit reduced by the intermediary commission of bankers and intermediaries. Payments of individual loans in a smaller percentage were made by payment to an account in the Republic of Croatia, and part was paid in cash in the Republic of Croatia in such a way that the amount in question on behalf of the credit amount was entered in the bags by intermediaries or bank employees. There were also cases where individual law offices received credit documentation and then paid the amount of credit in their offices when they called on credit users to access their office for payment. On such behaviours, I believe that today many debtors who have made certain financial relations with international creditors can be identified. How was the payment of the loan war? By paying the loan war in Croatian law offices, receiving from lawyers, cash payment on behalf of the war credit. By paying hands to intermediaries, either in the property of the users of the loans themselves or in various catering facilities. By paying directly to bank employees, directors or only bank employees upon their arrival in the Republic of Croatia. By paying a payment in another country to their business banks or intermediaries and bank employees, either in intermediaries' offices, or in catering and in-house facilities. By paying in the bank itself, the creditor in another country or by paying through the account of the creditor bank in the Republic of Croatia. This is exactly the kind of behavior that has resulted in a number of lawsuits. To such testimony, the courts in the Republic of Croatia reacted in the way they considered it to be the most just. However, this obviously did not work properly because the courts obviously did not go into the depth of the legal provisions in particular in the provisions of Article 28(4). The foreign exchange law, which was in force until 2011 when almost 95% of all credit agreements were signed or registered in land books by that date, and a good part of the implementation was already launched. That's when the courts declare that nothing is left, i.e. That she doesn't exist. After that, the CNB reacted. She clearly issued a document showing that legal persons based in another country not all of them, but just some of which were most talked about in this assembly but also in public, had never had or requested permission to carry out their business i.e. to carry out activities in the field of the Republic of Croatia. What's the problem with that kind of relationship? Legal persons established in another country for performing their business in the Republic of Croatia did not obtain the necessary authorisation and carried out through the network of intermediaries the business activity of lending and, according to the law, the direct provision of services prohibited until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. Although there is an obligation on the name of payment of taxes and other taxes and you are obligations not made. Or maybe they are. Although there is a provision of a law on the mandatory jurisdiction of the court in the Republic of Croatia because of the status of real estate located in the Republic of Croatia, and of the real law created by the conclusion of a loan agreement, the courts have declared not to be competent because they consider that Austrian law should be applied. Although there is a risk of loss of real estate and disappearance of heavy compensation or irreparable damage, the courts reject proposals for delaying the implementation even though there is evidence attached which clearly points to the integrity of the legal transaction. Thus, from the executive procedure itself, stating that the damage has not been proven, as well as that the housing property does not constitute a social category or category necessary for housing. And then the worst thing that happened to all of them, the existence of an interest account that does not follow the exact calculation, but represents interest on interest by joining the contractual interest, contractually tightened, as well as legally tightened interest on the amount of the debt without any reduction in the amounts paid and by the following, in the bang of the debtor, stems from the interest account and the principal that the debtor has not settled anything after several years. The question of many in this way opens up and the question opens for us whether the Republic of Croatia in the time in which we live in the 21st century, which is an EU member, may or may not look at these things without reacting? By entering the EU, 01. Seventy-seven. In 2013, some of these testimonies disappeared. But as in the case of Franak, they remained as a legacy of unfair and unfair relations between banks and their clients, and therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as in the case of Franak, reacts and accepts the bill proposed by a representative in the Croatian Parliament and corrects the same with its amendments. The clear message to be sent through the bill is both banks and debtors in Croatian courts must have equal treatment and an equal starting position by not entering each case individually. What was offered as a solution through the bill, through the amendments to the government. First of all, the Government considers that this problem should be addressed comprehensively, that it is necessary to address the legal situation in which the believer, the creditor, unauthorized and without the approval valid for carrying out such an activity has placed the loans. She changed the name of the law itself. The government determines what the law applies to. In the case of a contract which becomes worthless or other transactions concluded for the purpose of the achievement of that contract. A clear interpretation of what it means is a debtor, an unauthorized believer, a contract with an international mark. It shall be prescribed when the contract is void, and when the contract is fully realised, it shall be made clear that nothing has occurred. It is also prescribed when a public-book act is invalid. It is prescribed to suspend the performance, and this would be done after the power to rule on the integrity of the contract or of the public-book act. It is also prescribed that by bringing an action to determine the integrity of the contract with an international mark, a period shall begin in which there is no possibility of enforcement and for cases in which there is a higher level of application. It is prescribed that the Contracting Party shall return all that it has received on the day of its signature. The judgment of nothingness returns the principal without interest. Unless it does so, it is required to honor the signed interest agreement. It is also prescribed that the debtor may refer court proceedings to courts in his country of residence. The feedback effect of the provisions of the law shall also be prescribed from the date of conclusion of the contract with an international mark. The return effect is allowed for the sake of equality, i.e. the equal status of the contract signed by law and which may be signed after the adoption of this law. I want to say here what my colleague Alexic said today why is it an important consensus? When we adopted amendments to the Consumer Credit Act and when the issue of the conversion of francs was resolved in part and the question of these loans which were then not clearly resolved through the provisions of these amendments, the commonity of identifying the problem of Croatian citizens was clearly demonstrated. The subsequent confirmations of the courts show that such a job and such a law, which was passed unanimously and by consensus, was a strong act. Why does HDZ support the adoption of this law? I said extra and for the first time we're entering the legal system one law that needs to be solved by a dilemma that's been emerging for years. We want equal positions and banks and debtors in front of the courts of the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ clearly follows its position when it was in opposition and when it is in power it has offered in cooperation with the representative certain solutions that should be part of what and of our pre-election promise that we clearly made, that we want to solve problems of this very nature. I don't think we need to have enough or too many days ahead of us to sit and look at a problem like this anymore, but simply by passing this law we try to further edit our legal system and introduce a certain amount of security among our young families, among those who have certain problems, who live with it every day. What we want to say more clearly is that by passing this law, nothing has been solved. No one can or has no right to expect that the entry into force of this law is all settled. Only then begin the opportunities that debtors should take advantage of, but also banks if they feel they are right and that their position with this law may have come into a different position. I think that each of these debtors who have been through all this over the past period will consider and offer their solutions on the basis of the documentation they have, based on the experiences they have and that we will just finally start to solve this problem, given that certain institutions we have expected in the past time have not clearly explained to many of the requests that have been put before them. I think that this way and this way we have shown that we know how to listen to our citizens, that this government has the capacity and the power to deal with many problems and that we will finally start to solve a problem that has been emerging for a longer number of years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42933	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42934	Thank you, Your Honor. So here is fellow Boris, you said at the very beginning that the aim of this law is to establish, quote: "The aim is to establish the legality or illegality of the business." If the job was illegal, what was it with people who had already lost their property? That's why I'm going to give you another example. The example says this. “ If you buy a stolen car from another hand, ” says the man, “you lose your car. How does this not apply to real estate obtained on the basis of, or on the basis of, illegal work? Says stealing is an example of illegal labor. So these contracts without CNB's approval are the same example of illegal work, i.e. illegal work, legal work. Now, someone's gonna say that Pernar said they did, but as a matter of fact, it's already over, the properties have already been sold at the auction. Okay. They were sold at the auction, but I'm asking a question essentially whether at the time of the auction there was a note that there was a dispute and that there was a lawsuit for the establishment of nothingness? Yes, it is. It's like I'm a fraud to write property on real estate from, say, let's say Lalovec's colleagues hypothetically on some scam I sign up as the owner and then sell his real estate. Is this the new buyer, is that his real estate? I don't think so. And that's why I handed over the amendment to another one that reads next. He says it like this. If the real estate is already sold at the auction of a third party and the contract, the loan shall be declared indemnity, the court shall order the removal of the new owner and the return of the property to the original owner of which the property has been seized on the basis of a zero contract. That's the essential thing. 'Cause. [[Intruder Rainer: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42935	Thank you. The honourable representative Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42936	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, surely there will be a situation that you have cited, which today will be silent during the debate, some have been resolved through the amendments to the Government, when we talk about nothing or nothing if the legal work is done, so there is no harm, if we have consumed the whole contract, for these contracts this law has no great help. Whether this will happen, whether to propose, Mr. Representative or Government accept one of these amendments, I cannot tell you here today in this debate, because it is a question that will certainly be discussed until the day that this bill will be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42937	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42938	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Boric, you mentioned in your debate that you support this law, as is supported by the vast majority or I believe almost all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, but here we have to ask ourselves one question, which is very serious and that we need to evaluate so that such things do not happen in the future. How is it possible for a cooperative, organisation, company, anything, to break into Croatia's payment system with over 2 billion kunas, to split over 3,000 loans, to make a scheme, where, here we have heard, many of these loans, are as signed, paid out, and essentially here they did the whole business in Croatia, the money was brought here. How is it possible for the state to predict this and allow in some way an illegal activity to be carried out in our citizens, which ends with defeating data. So, when we see over 3,000 of these loans, and there are certainly more than what is said here, and when we see how much is the performance and with what amounts of people have run out of valuable real estate and when we see where the area of the Republic of Croatia has concentrated this activity, we are essentially now retroactively all clear. So, I think it's a very one-story story that went after the fact that it's very likely to wash some of the money from Austria on our real estate. As it is possible that 10 or 5 or 6 or 7 years of state failure to respond, the CNB is not responding, no one de facto reacts, until, no, Mr. Babic, it doesn't matter now even who was in power here. Don't succumb to the lowest party passions. It doesn't matter who was in power. It's important that we see how it happened and that it never happens again. That's what's important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42939	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42940	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, we had the same case with the story of the French loans, and then questions were raised, how it is possible that people or users or debtors made such contracts, why it was allowed and, of course, the government in which you were both minister and colleague to you reacted and tried to solve the problem when he escalated. This problem has come to the stage that it is also escalating now, perhaps the strongest than in any period so far. And the government, I say, with the proposal of one MP trying to norm certain solutions that should only be a guarantee of one thing. And that is, to finally determine what was legal or illegal in this relationship or business that was going on from the beginning, I don't know in 2000 until then in 2011, 2012. We have an inheritance as a problem, and I think I've made it clear why we have to solve this problem. That's what the citizens are looking for, that's what we promised, and I think we'll all support today, all the clubs, and that through possible and some other amendments might do even more to remove any possible doubts. Of course, the banks will continue to have all their ability to either challenge the law or to seek a certain assessment of constitutionality or to act on what they think they need, but personally, I personally think that this is finally one position that can help both the debtor and the believer today. We do not need to say in advance one is in a better or worse position than the other, but it will tell the Croatian courts the basis of the provision of this law and the lawsuits which will be filed or not and then will determine who is and what he is guilty of, whether he has done wrong or has done nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42941	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42942	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Boric, you said you did not want to arbitration over this law and that the intensity was to actually establish the legality or illegality of these wounds in the business process and that criminal charges were filed that frauds were found, frauds are not just with us. The frauds happen everywhere, the CNB reacted and said they didn't have a business permit. Maybe the courts were supposed to react differently, question the nature of these contracts. I remember very well in 2015, and for this reason I may have said, the incursion was a gentleman, a colleague of Maras, I remember in 2015 when we were bringing those amendments and additions to this Consumer Credit Act, when you were on several occasions talking about it, because a large number of these users were from the island of Rab, when they were looking for breaks, there was also a parliamentary question, in fact almost daily you warned about this credit-related problem. Of course, we all have empathy for these people, and it's very hard and sad to look at when we look at the delicacies, in fact what people have acquired all their lives disappears overnight, and it's certainly not good and it's not fair. And what I'm saying is that, for example, such contracts weren't in Slavonia, such contracts weren't in Lica, they weren't in Imotski, so these properties were unattractive to those people from the RBA cooperative, they were just happening in Istria, they were happening on islands where they were attractive properties. I also want to say that those who have been in this business process, and the citizens are also responsible for such loans, get it with 2%, not being creditworthy, then they knew or should have assumed that they could enter into such a business relationship very risky, and that means that even ignorance of them does not release them from responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42943	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42944	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, I did indeed speak as did our other colleagues at that time because we were passing the path of testifying through various rulings that the courts had initially declared themselves incompetent for the general resolution of the issue, so they were making judgments declaring the jurisdiction of the Austrian or the courts of other states for these issues, so when the law was amended in 2015 they finally began to declare themselves responsible for these issues, and now through this bill, I think that the issue of jurisdiction will no longer be questionable. Now there will be new developments in the legal system, and I think that novelty finally gives equal chances to both banks or credit institutions and debtors who have such contracts with an international mark. And that's what I'm saying. You don't have to come to the debate at all today in the House or say who's more or less guilty because everyone will best assess for themselves whether he could or couldn't have done it the way the bank did. Whether or not she was allowed to give I do not know a million-euro loan to the obvious or some kind of property appraisal if there were no other options to secure claims and, of course, with each such business, they themselves came into a particular problem. I think that through our debate today, we will clearly clarify the intention of the Government and the Proposer, what we offer as solutions, and what I can expect both debtors and creditors who have made such contracts with an international feature. I think the positions are the same, valid papers, valid testimonies, witnesses, and then be determined what was right and what wasn't. We're not you and I think it's good and that the debate is going on in one quality tone and I think that's what's going to happen all day.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42945	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42946	Thank you very much. Dear Boris, we have talked about this problem countless times here in this high home, we have proposed certain conclusions when the Republic of Croatia did not want to solve the problem, we have suggested that this high home should stop some things. However, nothing happened here by chance. Someone took advantage of the time when business banks had strict conditions for granting loans, it came... that the high value of real estate, offered people something, people got caught up in it. And now look at the Foreign Exchange Act is clear, there is no need for an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Croatia to know the Foreign Affairs Act, so they have a lawyer who has someone else who is obliged to implement something. But what I think is, and I've talked about it countless times here and in conversation with those unfortunate people who took those loans, the intermediaries didn't get the CNB's work permit. According to the Foreign Exchange Act, it is clear exactly what a natural person must do and what a legal person must do. However, what this law needs to be resolved, and what unfortunately did not want to be adopted by the majority in the House at that time, should be suspended until it is clearly established who did what and who did what wrong. Unfortunately, it was either these intermediaries or they were already taking money in Austria to get them inside, giving them to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and frankly speaking automatically, they committed a foreign currency violation, they committed a customs offence, but these people didn't know where. They didn't even know what their commission was. However, what is not clear to me in this whole story is that Raiffeisen cooperatives through these problems have not found it appropriate to personally contact any of these citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are in charge and try to resolve it peacefully with him, is I with most of the people with whom I have spoken no one at all disputed that he is aware that he has to repay the debt. But the question is that he was giving some money to pay off his annuity instead, he didn't pay it, and the question is that the interest rate was constantly changing. And that's why I think what I said a few years ago, I'm not going to change my mind, just one sentence, please, that the institutions, the Ministry of Justice first of all, the Ministry of Finance, the CNB and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have to come and deal with it in a bilateral agreement because otherwise we're not going to solve it. It will always be the courts, these or them who judge, and in Strasbourg will eventually be brought to ask God what kind of...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42947	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42948	Thank you very much. I mentioned in my debate on behalf of the Club on Foreign Affairs and its value while it was in force until 2011, and based on that law, the courts acted, but each time they found that nothing exists, precisely on the basis of that law. And then they had some other laws at their disposal, but obviously we came from that point of zeroness again, we're not in charge, so we're in charge, but there's still no harm because we have to judge it in Austria and now we come to it after the changes in 2015 to determine jurisdiction and now I think only through this law do I think more or less and the courts are waiting for it themselves because it offers them certain solutions and debtors, but to the believers. It is not necessary to weaken anyone's position at this time that they will finally determine what is or was not legal given what is put before the courts as evidence. And I think it's the greatest value of this law and I think it's even greater value if it's passed by consensus then it's going to be a lot easier for many to say, at last one story detachs and that these people or get their satisfaction if they want to run the proceedings by stressing once again the adoption of this law, those who were debtors, nothing will happen to them unless they start their own procedures by applying the law alone or by taking effect again nothing will happen again. They must run in accordance with their own thinking which is convenient for them at that moment, is not favourable, whether they should get out of a relationship or seek some satisfaction in court. This law offers and I think if there are any other amendments to the situations that have arisen in the meantime I think it is worth considering and, of course, if the Government thinks and advocate who has proposed the law that it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42949	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished counterpart Boris Lalovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's this problem for many years has been bothering Croatian citizens, and today we seem unique to me that such a law should be implemented in the Croatian legal system. Before we go about the law itself which I think is quite legal, quite well, especially the Government of its amendments that has improved that law. It doesn't matter what it is, there's no problem with me though they've changed how many articles it matters that the essence doesn't change, and whatever we can fix here, let's talk and fix it. One question when we're talking, all the time we've been here talking about these cooperatives, it doesn't matter. I'm just asking the question as to how it's possible, it's not how they came to Croatia and so they did business and so I know how possibly that Austrian supervisory bodies never asked those cooperatives what you were doing there in Croatia. Recently, we have adopted a law on housing consumer credit here. It means that when they placed these funds in the Republic of Croatia was not an EU member, we were not part of the single market. Austria was then part of the single market and the Austrian financial system was functioning according to all EU directives. And the directives and recently we adopted one such, the Consumer Credit Act, housing consumer lending specifically states that you cannot place such loans unless you have information, providing full information to the debtor unless you have defined the creditworthiness of the debtor etc. So all these directives that the Republic of Austria has been protecting its citizens for many years now, the question arises that their institutions have not come and said to my people, what are you doing there in Croatia? How your risk assessments are because look, in the end of this very cooperative, because their financial system is compromised. Why? Because if they don't get their loans back, who's gonna have to react? The Austrian National Bank will have to react. And now the question is, where not only on our market, but nobody in the Republic of Austria has responded to us and told us there are some EU directives, you can't act like that whether you acted in Austria or acted in Croatia or any other country. That's one question. So not only did our own, I ask whether it was a very clear question when the Austrian National Bank is very clear, closely monitors the exposure of Austrian financial institutions not only in Croatia but also monitors in BiH, Serbia, Montenegro and other countries. And now the question is whether they followed these cooperatives of theirs and what is ultimately their responsibility because they also had to know what they were doing, with their financial institutions that were making a mess in other countries. Another thing, as it is possible for one such financial institution, whether credit or not, to enter the market at an interest rate of 2%. And their queen, who does the same thing in the Republic of Croatia, finances Croatian citizens at 6% or 7% or 8, at that time. So imagine, so all the financial institutions, the Austrian institutions that we know have banking systems somewhere 80% or 60% were then, so they finance in regular placements 7.8%, cooperatives come by 2%. How is that possible? How is that possible and we're talking about the same interest rates that are very important, how was there no risk of the state? Since not all of them were there when they said that they needed to assess the risk of the state, etc., how they found themselves at 2% under one, and then they later raised them to 10%, etc.? So it is very, very significant that in fact all those who participated in this procedure were not only in Croatian institutions... I see how these agreements were concluded that Boric spoke and asked questions from all these Austrian institutions that were actually supposed to react and cooperatives fall under the regulation of Austrian institutions have told my people what you do there in Croatia by 2%, what you do there do not assess the creditworthiness of debtors at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about credit assessment, here very Mr Babic said how it is possible that Croatia's islands are exclusively funded, the Croatian coast? So you didn't have that kind of shape anywhere but it was purely mortgaged, so the market value of the property, that way the value of the property will cover their funding. It's strictly forbidden. Why don't banks do business like that today? Why today if this was all normal, legal, why today all these same financial institutions don't operate at 2%, why don't they give without any credit, here we come, get accounts? It's when you take, when you need an overrun, 10, 15, 20 thousand kunas to skin you, so they're looking for this data, they're looking for that data. As it is possible to give someone 100,000 euros, it doesn't matter what they received, so people have been trying to solve their own existential issues, and you can't put people in that context at all if they've taken anything, whether they were in that context according to the law or not. Absolutely to me in this context absolutely irrelevant. I ask the question of the one who offered these things, the one who offered those things, who offered the loans and knew that they would actually bring those citizens, so in exclusively, we can say, that they knew they were going to take over the property. So his whole job was taking over real estate on the Adriatic, reselling real estate from extra profits. It wasn't just that he, you see later here, it seems to me that the motionary in the law itself is speaking, very little and almost none seems to me, has been properly returned. So the whole model wasn't even defined to repay the loan. The model is designed to make someone come to real estate, to resell these properties, to see how quickly they have their own d.o.o. the related companies that will buy it, so they have a stalking mechanism. Now the question arises how is it possible for him to co-operate, no matter what these cooperatives are called, to come into possession of a much larger number of properties than the banks are in the regular process? Now let's take how many banks that operate under CNB regulation and all the laws of the Republic of Croatia, have less property in their possession, have a much larger portfolio, have 99% of the fixed assets. Much harder to get to the means that these cooperatives have up to 3 to 5 thousand properties in their possession when you take the entire portfolio of all these banks, there are few hundred of them. There aren't a few hundred of them. So the whole model of this kind of business was and that's why this law on the integrity of such contracts is good because we don't think the directives that the Austrians did business on did not place them in their own country. They were not placed in their own country because they should not be placed in their own country because they did not have an assessment of their creditworthiness, and it is very clear that they are regulatory, banking regulations in the credit assessment. It's the most rigid assessment when you're giving someone credit, so it's a 1/3 salary, so 1/2, etc., so what are your incomes, if you're working in a company, etc., it's a very rigid process that they have to meet according to Basel's criteria, given their adequateness of capital. The credit assessment is the most important, here in this context absolutely wasn't, but you just came to the Adriatic, you saw the real estate, give them the money, etc. Take care of it. So the basic element of their business wasn't doing business, and I'm surprised, and if they were to talk about disputes, then just let them answer those questions. So, and that's why I think it's very important that we bring this law unanimously here in the House, because we have so-called entry. The hot capital on the Croatian market which was simply not under control, could not have been, under surveillance, probably at the time of the conclusion of all these contracts could have been very difficult for someone, especially if it was concluded in catering facilities etc. etc., very difficult may have been some institutions at that time and could have known about it. Later on, when it was all over, there was just no one in that... because we have simply had such situations before in the past, but it is important that the real estate market is finally regulated in the Republic of Croatia, because we also show that we are an attractive country for investment, so it is not Austrians just like that, but on that part of the work that they organised and worked in Croatia, not that it was illegal, not only that it was illegal, but the whole model was not that these people were actually in the final door, because I didn't hear any citizen of the Republic who said that he didn't want to return that part, I didn't hear any of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not one. And when you see all the statistics, all the CNB statistics, you will see that Croatian citizens paid their financial obligations most frequently, paid the most. I would like to say that even given the crisis we had in our six years of recession, it seems to me that they paid even more neatly than Austrian citizens or some other citizens. Because you must understand that 6 years of recession affects income, affects the entire economy and that only 6% of Croatian citizens who cannot repay their loans are neat in their salaries. So it's out of the question that someone who took something that didn't want to bring it back, but the way it was organized and how very successfully these properties are now being resold and you see what's now blooming in the Republic of Croatia. What is now booming in the Republic of Croatia, I said what the minister gave that provision of the Tax on Profits Act so that I could clear the balance sheet, resell debt. Debt reselling is now the best business in the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that about 6 to 10 billion bankers just last year just booked their debt out of their balance sheets and now you've got a variety of companies, a variety of capital, like this, that's what it's called, and they're reselling and trading in debt. It's the biggest part of the market, and I'm afraid this is just one of the beginnings, and so I say I welcome this law and welcome the amendments to the government that I think are correct... That in two and three months, we don't have another problem with the debt reselling that we can say again that the legal one, which can again be said to exist on the market, but if you get out of 42 billion blocked citizens, believe me... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Surely, there are some 20 billion who have now purchased these debts from banks, somewhere 20%, and value that they will continue to resell that debt and the question arises whether or not we will be able to resolve the issue of blocked citizens at all? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see that the government is going with this new law and amendments, and we will also consider it and we hope that we will be unique to support it here, because this is a key issue that we will have to deal with, unfortunately, for another few years because the debt market that has now bought out for very cheap money has not been settled from afar and I fear that we will have to regulate some new laws and their areas, whether they and how they operate, in which terms and in which way and the question whether or not you are going to solve how these citizens are going to deal with these problems. So the debt market in Croatia, unfortunately, is booming if you take the last four or five years. I think there's over 20 billion that the banks in that section have written off and sold at a very low discount value. However, the problem for Croatian citizens has not been solved and it seems to me that the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Croatian Government, will have to intervene again and see how their problems will be solved. Thank you. So the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42951	Thank you very much. Although everyone agrees, and your exposure has caused a whole series of replicas, so let's move in line. He's the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42952	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovec, you've actually asked the key question of what were the Austrian control institutions doing? Because this whole story is not a coincidence, because at the moment when the first credit-paying crisis started, there were once-in-a-time funds in Croatia that were the founders of this housing cooperative, which the Buddhas were sincerely told in Austria were abolished a year or two after they had done so. And they have come forward as those who buy in court the claim of the real estate from Croatian citizens. However, what is very important, so these people through those who were mediators had very good information when there would be auctions. We all know from experience that in Croatia Croats unfortunately, not unfortunately but simply such a way of life, they never wanted to... buying real estate to nobody because they don't want to be wronged in someone's accident. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's in our habitat and it's just a fact that no one can deny. However, what financial mileage did a colleague of Lalovac come from in Croatia? From which financial mile did the Swiss come to Croatia? Is it completely identical? Because practically from one to say, they showed up and then the others started to go, and what European country had the most committed funds in Swiss at the time? So nothing happens by accident. Which country was the last to form the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering by EU members? And talk about why some other Croatian institutions haven't responded listen to me today we don't know who with a kilo of drugs or something heading towards the Croatian border. We don't know who with a suitcase of money goes across the Croatian border. It's something you just didn't know, but I repeat all those who intervened in this matter should have been questioned. And I think the Austrian National Bank had to contact Croatia and make a contract with every Croatian citizen, because no one disputes that they want to repay the loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42953	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, so what I'd like to hear from our institutions is, is from the governor of the CNB, did he send an inquiry to the Austrians and ask if in this context you were doing surveillance of them? Whether they were doing business all the time in accordance with the directives and their regulations. But this is very significant. So somewhere in two thousand years we know that an Austrian bank is entering Croatia that exclusively has an objective of financing real estate in the Republic of Croatia, it exclusively has an objective of financing in the Republic of Croatia. And she comes out first, first comes out with that story about financing for the Swiss franc. No other bank went with the Swiss franc, but the Austrian bank, which was later rescheduled by the Austrian state and even some Austrian provinces, the very wealthy Austrian provinces, almost went bankrupt. But in Austria, there were probably some investigative committees, and they are silent, etc. However, what they did to Croatia and how they did business will unfortunately be done by Croatian citizens, it will be many years to address these problems. And then there was the first one they went with the Swiss franc. And then when he just blew out, when they threw out that part parallelly, they appeared so-called. cooperatives. A parallel way of financing the so-called "Charlie". Their cooperatives appear to have hidden funding. And simply honestly when it comes to you so many billions of kunas, you can't have what you said and so many customs officers and all those inspections when simply one organized not only in this form of cooperatives, but one organized policy where you have to monitor how much you enter another's market, are you going to make a complete mess on that market. But that resale, that speculation, those bonuses that are simply the greed of their entire system, this was systematic. This wasn't individual. And that is why we believe that the Parliament has the right to pass such laws, has the right and to protect its citizens. I hope so, too, and if anyone discusses more about the fact that Croatian courts will finally begin to judge as the Croatian Parliament adopts laws and that we and the courts for the protection of Croatian citizens will actually be on the same side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42955	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42956	Thank you very much. So you're absolutely right about the state, the modern state must protect its citizens. Because sometimes they just don't have enough information about what's going on. In particular, they don't have any financial information to say so about literacy. And they don't have to, but someone has to protect them. So that system is not random. So I say history is reversible. So, of course, the Austrian banks, part of the Italian banks and their derivatives came primarily to Croatia for historical reasons and historical interest, financial reasons. In what way do you actually make very simple money, in which part? The islands, then, part of the former, to caricate the former Austro-Hungarian. Of course, citizens don't know how to commit customs violations, they take the cash and pay the middlemen. But the question arises here what about public notebooks in Croatia? Who was doing all this except, of course, the definitive responsibility of the National Bank of Austria, which allowed it. And as we are in a common European market. However, don't expect the rits, so those who sell the product, that was the sale of the product at all, to warn the person who takes it. I'm talking about the banking sector. Well, of course they won't warn them because they're paid, they get a bonus if they can sell the product. Even if you have networked persons on the ground at this time in Croatia who are carrying it through land books. And that's your key problem. And that's why definitely Parliament has to be very clear about it, as you mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42957	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42958	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovac, you mentioned the state and this system in which more has been spoken today and in recent times, but now in one replica you mentioned another system which is also in this area, was also intended to be more than a return invested, i.e. It gets to the real estate itself. And that system also went very badly in this area. So we have a situation when we're talking about the system or the intention that it was designed. So it wasn't just an individual's weakness to react to the product, but that the simple system worked out a complete network to make that product sold. Of course, citizens who did not have the law in the Republic of Croatia were able to enter here into a credit relationship with some banks that could lend credit because they had no financial capacity, because they were not employed, because they did not have a salary high enough, it was that the system recognized it. And he only offered real estate as the only option to be used to place the loan. And there's a problem. When's the problem coming? Problems come in 2010, 2011. There was no problem in the first year. When a recession occurs, when it runs out of work, problems arise, and citizens realize that they have entered into a relationship that is very difficult to get out of. And all this struggle, a few years, clearly shows, is just today, that we have the opportunity to talk about the law, which may have been done before, but simply, here's the possibility that now everyone in some way accepts it and that we can give the possibility to face each individual in this relevant place, and that's the court, and to prove whether it was okay, legally or prove something else. If it's illegal, everyone knows what to do. I think it's only fair, and no one's getting weak here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42959	The answer to the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42960	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with you, fellow Boric. Especially when, as defined by the interest rate when you go, especially what should be done according to all these regulations that are strictly supervised by supervisors. So you don't have a credit rating, you don't have a credit rating because they're not even valued and you're giving someone an interest rate of 2%. Who's crazy about that? You're giving someone, now I'd ask a question, so when the Austrians say, so the interest rate is defined to you, so each individual, look now, what are your receipts, whether you're working at a stable firm or not, how old you are neatly, etc. So there's a number of these criteria coming in, and then at that interest rate, it's assessing your individual risk. Individual risk. And based on that individual analysis, you get some interest rate, that's what they did in Croatia about 4 to 5% or 6 or 7, as they added additional margins. Now, what kind of system was they set up for people who were invisible, so they didn't see him at all, give him a 2% interest? That's all I'm asking. To all institutions, especially Austrian competent institutions, the Austrian next bank, when audited, the business of its cooperatives, just let them answer that question. Did they work according to Basel standards of their institution? If they were warned because they've been doing it for years, they've been doing it for years. It's not like it happened all of a sudden, it's been working for five, six, seven years. They're for every money that's crossed... Borders, it's not just customs, customs officers watching, opening bags, and seeing if anyone transferred the money or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the job of the Austrian National Bank, which says, of their money, of Austrian money, of expanding into the region, and of whether the risk will later be in the Austrian state. Is there a problem with Hypo Bank? The Hypo Bank is a problem, that the Austrian state is paying for their expansion, their madness, what they've been doing all around us. The Austrian state and therefore the Austrian finance minister was against the Law on Conversion, because their government had to pay an additional 100m euros to this bank, Hypo, because they guaranteed their business. Now I ask the question, if they vouched for Hypo as far as it's possible they weren't in control of these other cooperatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42961	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42962	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Lalovec, you've had such a sincere moralization and you're wondering how it is possible for such cooperatives to pass under that financial supervision of the Austrian institutions. So, according to some difolt, you think that everything that comes from such countries, arranged countries, with good institutions, is good, fair and well-intentioned. I have a different experience and I don't think that's the case. You said the model was so defined, if I understood you correctly that it actually serves to get those cooperatives, as much property as possible. And then you said that it's possible, let's say, banks, similar banks, can't actually get to that number of real estate is far less, so they obviously had a market for such properties and they did it that way. Apparently, they've been spying on it. And what exactly does our country do? Our country is passing this law to protect its users. Do you think the Republic of Austria would pass a law like this? They would tell you about this law that it is populist and that in fact in one open market of supply and demand everyone carries their own risk. And when you were talking about the factoring law. I agree with you entirely, especially when you said that certain banks and institutions and financial sales their claims for about 20% and 30%. So we wonder, if that's the case, why these same banks or financial institutions didn't offer it to clients who actually owed them, that's kind of a logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42963	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I certainly agree with the last one if they've written down all those values in their balance sheets and now we see from the CNB reports that they've sold it out of six billion dollars for a billion kuna, etc. Why didn't they resell it to clients to close their debts at these values, and not sell these for a certain billion, and these will later charge it for 4.5 billion. And you will see this question will certainly be opened here, unfortunately very quickly and we will have to see how and in such situations we will react and so I say the last time I supported Minister Marić when he wrote that only if there is a write-off and they get a tax relief and in this context that they should write that part of the claim to the client at least at this level to cover that level. And now we're going to see if in that case the CNB will run an analysis of that portfolio sold and see if it's all in accordance with the laws. And about when we talked about this part so the Austrian authorities would react, so look at me, it seems like no Croatian institution is very difficult to deal with normal production very hard to come to the market and Austria. I would very much like to see that we also have our own not only banking but other companies that can do business, but unfortunately it happens that in Croatia we have both spar and Lidl and Bauhaus, etc., and unfortunately our trade chains in Austria very little, unfortunately in other countries. But at least if we know we can't come to other markets, at least if we know how to protect ourselves from those who come to the Croatian markets, if no one here wants to, I'd just like to do business the way they do in their countries. Here is what they do in their country to do business in Croatia and we today would not have such discussions here in this House. Unfortunately, it's about resales and it's about very fast profits and what I said about these properties, look. I'll finish later. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42965	Thank you. Honorable representative Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42966	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, Mr. Lalovec, I must commend you and say that you have very well implicated this problem, you have analyzed it in detail, and I must also say that you are one of the few ministers who mentioned this problem five years ago. You've made a good point, they haven't checked their creditworthiness, and that's one absurd absurdity when we know that all credit institutions have to determine their creditworthiness. If they are not doing so, they are asking questions that are their motives, meaning whether the motive is essentially the payment of these loans or whether it is the motive for usurpation of assets. In view of other facts, when we know that loans are mostly placed by the sea, where attractive properties are, etc. We have absolutely the right to suspect that their only intention was to usurp these valuable properties. One more thing, here's one lawyer who deals with this problem and represents the damages wrote one experience, she says in court proceedings that are conducted to declare the enforcement of the illegal irregularly seeking accounting for financial skills in order to determine the actual height of the debt. Generally, in such procedures, a bank or credit institution delivers a credit card file containing the payment plan, the payment specification and other banking documents, but credit cooperatives although they are represented as banks do not supply the same. In view of the need to implement financial skills, the court orders them to deliver the same within a specified time limit, but they do not act on the court's order. After that, the procedure stops and nothing happens. So she says at least in her cases, that means there's no clear payment plans where credit debtors even know how much they've paid back and how much more they have to pay back.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42967	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42968	Dear fellow Lalovac. You also mentioned how and you mentioned the rhetorical question that Austrian institutions did not care about who and how they placed the funds outside. Some of my knowledge and claim to me that, in fact, the Austrian authorities had knowledge and that these banks had the opportunity to have the authority of their respective authorities to place these funds in the territory of Croatia, means non-residents based in Croatia. What also worries me is that so far, no court in Croatia and all the reconnaissances of the DORH and other bodies under official duty or on citizens' applications have established the elements of criminal proceedings and criminal offences, which is rather strange, since so many such cases have occurred. And it is also known from this information that banks and some legal entities have bought about 240 properties in Croatia so far, from those debtors to save their claims. So here's the strangest thing that's ever been done is that there's never been a verdict on a criminal offence that came from such a procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42969	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, we'll probably ask these people here who are the state's attorney or those institutions that are discussing in the Parliament and this issue. So you're saying they had clearance, they were probably covering themselves. So the Hypo Bank had a work permit, too, so what are they doing now? They pay millions of dollars, not to say billions of Austrian crazy states, not just in Croatia. So we know that their provinces almost went bankrupt because of it, etc., and everything was legal, right? Everything about the Austrian People's Bank was legal and the state went bankrupt for it. The state bankrupted them because of how moral they were, what they were doing. What my colleague Schuker said, the only country still with Switzerland when we have a data exchange on bank accounts that don't give data to Austria. It's the only country left. And now the EU has been asking them, and I think by 2018 they will have to give these particulars. So, it's all theirs, they're slowly washing their hands, but ultimately the question is whether we should sue and say you've done damage, you haven't worked, yours and their control mechanisms. And I think this is a question if they open it any further, if the Austrians keep opening it up, this question I think it can only harm them more. They need to close down, pay people back, return this part, return what people are looking for, and be happy that these people don't sue later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42971	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mark Welligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42972	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a colleague of Lalovac, many times in your discussion, and also in the replicas you mentioned Austria, a country which was somehow for us all to call such a role model, not only because of historical connections but somehow they were there for us and we wanted to reflect their economic model in Croatia. Now we see, in fact, that things aren't really as pink as they looked to us, because we were obviously to them, not all of them, but obviously not all of them, but obviously to some of their institutions, businesses to the polygon for financial innovations that they weren't, not that they were just rejecting them, but they never really implemented them. Unfortunately, the history of the entire independent Croatian state is full of problems that we had in this area from that financial engineering to the affair with our domestic banks, to the recent examples of Swiss and the one we are discussing here today. I'd say regulation is the key word. We cannot simply leave everything to the market, the state must first take care of its citizens and then just listen to what Vienna, Milan or Berlin will say. Of course, the financial literacy of people is also important, and people have to educate themselves. However, the education system would have the same thing to say because people have to be aware if they take loans to take certain risks. And finally I'm gonna say that I'm glad that in time you warned about a potential problem with a new market that is now there... it's a debt market. Unfortunately, we will probably solve it again here in the Croatian Parliament when this problem is escalating. I wish I was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42973	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Advocacy Club Let's change Croatia's speech by distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42974	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens who follow us. Here, for several years I have been familiar with and actively participates in solving this problem as we call it popular RBA savings-credit cooperatives in Croatia. And I'm glad, I'm very glad that it's finally this law, so here we can call it, the media has already called it Scybol's law to finally be adopted and to protect finally our citizens, which this country, or its institutions, has left hanging for years. This is just one significant example of credit market riots, only one significant example of how state institutions or regulators in the Republic of Croatia do not function, do not do their job. We see today in these discussions, mentioning responsibility, these, those, Austrians, etc., it is very clear that if someone is playing you on the credit market, bags, there is no license to do such a job that is primarily the central bank in that country, and that is the CNB. Here is the Ministry of Finance, the foreign inspectorate, the MUP. So I can't believe that the MUP and any of this institution, no matter who's walking around this country, which they're offering, is trying to trick the citizens, it's working. And especially here was the focus on luxuriant properties, so according to Istria and Dalmatia. So it can be concluded from this that this was a very interesting, interesting one program. But look at your colleagues and colleagues, and instead of being the most responsible institution of the CNB and she calls for responsibility why it allowed HDZ's bill of law on, amending the CNB law where one of the most important changes to introduce an audit, the state audit, they have smoothly rejected it. Well, they wouldn't even be putting this law on the agenda right now if they hadn't promised citizens because of the misdemeanors in the House, but that's where we now see the power of us, so small parties, independent MPs, individuals because we're the only guarantee that something can be changed in this country. And on this we will persist to see next to the party Let's change Croatia and other smaller parties, above all the Political Centre. So it was quite clear that these people, these agents of these Austrian credit cooperatives, had no approval to work and to sell, granted loans without a credit rating, without a license, without anything, and the CNB had to do its job. And they regularly write to us in half-year and monthly reports that we have financial stability. So please, with this problem a few dozen thousand people are covered. We have 330,000 citizens who have been blocked, we've had that mess with the Swiss franc and the loans, is that financial stability? This endangers the foundations of the system of economy, monetary, credit system and the state itself. This balanced the Croatian financial market and someone here said that we are not looking for anything but to europeanise and implement the same standards and that they exist in the countries of origin. This law of hope, this law raises hope for the citizens, that they will be protected that the institutions of this state will stand by them but this is a message to all those who think in this way to come to Croatia, to work, not to come. Let them sell such products elsewhere and let us not call other countries, other central banks and their institutions but make this state more efficient and its institutions do their job. Because what kind of state we've had in various cases over the past few years leaves our citizens unprotected and literally extradites them to those who have spent their interest and eventually come into debt slavery, they've been blocked, they've become the subject of execution, and then they've started all these jobs again, they've come to cheap real estate. So we as a party changed Croatia we support this Skibola law, so we are looking for and we want it to be implemented, says this will certainly be a great encouragement, not only encouragement, a great help to our citizens, here personally in the Parliament over the past year and received, there have been damages, representatives of the association that means promoting their rights, we have talked a lot about it, and finally came that moment. Today there's a colleague of Lalovac and some of us, gentlemen, we're increasingly prisoners of debt, we can't be sovereign country, and people or citizens can't be free if they're in debt. Because the man in charge is not a free man. I think it's been known since ancient times, until today. And finally, I'm asking the question of the Supreme Court's role in this whole story. You see, when something becomes a mass phenomenon, like it was a Swiss franc, when it's these credit cooperatives from Austria, then we in the country have a mass problem. Then what is to be done in the judiciary? Then the Supreme Court as the highest instance of the judiciary, he had to react as well, analyse, take a stand. Why? Well, it worked and works in other countries, it worked, please, and in the former Yugoslavia. Why does it matter? If the Supreme Court had taken a stand and declared such matters worthless, then all courts in Croatia would have a unique verdict on the charges because they would have taken the Supreme Court's position. I'm also asking the Supreme Court, all of you, us, why don't we have this in the Supreme Court Act? Let's do it based on these difficult bad experiences, make something useful for the Supreme Court to finally start giving away so-called. previous opinions or statements which will actually be forms, instructions for lower courts to judge by the same case. In such a case, and in such cases, citizens will have more confidence in this House, in the judicial system, and that is the way out of this toad, out of this irresponsibility, and here I express my joy that this law, as far as I can see, will be adopted and that thousands of citizens will really be able to sleep peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42975	Thank you very much. We also have two replicas on your exhibit. He's the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42976	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lovrinović, I would therefore like to complete your debate with another fact that I think it is also important to mention today. In addition to these credit institutions that were illegally operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and I think that one of their colleagues mentioned that the Croatian banks that were otherwise rescheduled with money from Croatian citizens had crossed into the hands of foreign owners, in some way here in the Republic of Croatia became El Dorado for these banks in terms of credit defaults which were not verified in any way. I think it was only 2011, that the Register of Credit Bonders, so-called HROK. Before that, with many individuals using any political or other interesting links, they came to credit in several banks, completely unwarranted, even there were some words about criminal acts, and the Republic of Croatia did not take anything, its institutions, but all of it was on the backs of those people who were either bailors or jurisprudences, and in this way many people came into big problems. And those who caused these problems had nothing to do with it, and the banks were justified when people were suing or complaining about such actions, the banks had no register in which they could see that such things were actually unwarranted. And I think that there is also the responsibility of the Croatian state, especially in that time until 2011, someone mentioned, I think that only then in 2011, when the crisis comes, then slowly things start to untangle and this, things come to light. I'm going to mention another case where a man who was overindebted, in more banks there wasn't even a register he forced his subordinate I think it was a case at school, a janitor to raise a loan and give him money, be careful, it was known and no one, not even the State's Attorney's Office, was acting on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42977	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42978	Dear colleague Žagar, you are this one problem which means there is in Croatia, and he has only one pointed out. This is, and the problem of these credit cooperatives is only one in a series of problems in the monetary, or credit sphere of these deviations that exist in Croatia. You have now raised the question of how, therefore, credit institutions that have the authority to work in Croatia, how they can approve loans in this way. Well, exactly what we just said. They behave in one way, their mother's home banks in their countries in one way European, and here with us Bulgaria, Romania, Bosnia in one Balkan way. In addition, you yourself have been able to read over the past months and years that certain companies that had one or no employees were only founded with 20,000 kuna in losses could receive tens of millions of kuna credits, or cumulatively several billion. Who are these people behind these companies that were getting these loans? Have the banks recorded any losses? Well, we have a case of unsecured bonds, so a no-cover exchange in Agrokor case, which makes it one of the parts of the legal system in every country that's most congruent. I could list a lot more, but I hope we will meet for a plenary debate on problems of the banking system in Croatia, the monetary system because it is the cancer of this society's wounds. And I'm glad that by working out our new parties and people who think for themselves, we've opened up real issues that worry citizens and we're willing to sacrifice ourselves and work to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42979	And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42980	Thank you very much. I, in fact, would rather ask my colleague Lovrinovic a question than a replica. I agree with most of what he said, which he said, but most of all I was impressed by the part that citizens were left at the mercy of certain financial entities operating in Croatia. And now the question I'm asking myself is that I have long felt that financial institutions are neither foreign nor domestic. Oh don't behave the same way, the way they do, and that's why they're actually set up. So the theory that foreign banks are exploiting, and our or our bank is treating its clients differently, I don't think it stands. My question is precisely because I don't want to paralyze the following: Do you think it's impossible, that it will be impossible in the future, that it will be possible in the future to contain it with bans or that it would be better to establish really one system of informing our citizens that they actually know what they are doing. Because I know that the largest majority of our 8 citizens who actually went in, who put themselves in the hands of these institutions, they did it out of ignorance, and that's why they were deceived.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42981	The answer of the esteemed representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42982	Dear colleague Radin, I would not agree that the same way is done by the bank or by her daughter and her mother. I could do that on a few examples. But I hope there will be a plenary debate in this House, a session finally on the subject. But as far as what you're saying, so is someone left to their own mercy and mercy to these institutions, it's actually quite clear. We can say that I agree with you that capital has no limits. This is, we're in the EU. There is a certain liberalisation of the money and capital markets. However, when you ask if bans are the right solution. The prohibitions are not effective, but the laws as a preventive means are. But there's one more thing, that's what's most important, and that's that state institutions are protecting the area where its citizens live. Well, in that case, it's regulatory institutions. What is the meaning of the existence of regulatory institutions such as CNB, HANFA? Not to protect the rich and those who are well-versed, but to those small people and those who do not have enough knowledge, the whole meaning of regulatory institutions is primarily directed and turned to that side. I therefore believe that as much as possible and as soon as possible we must work specifically on the adoption of such laws in order to protect our citizens from becoming and remain the facilities on which this financial capital will be exploited. So see how many more credit offices are in Croatia? You can see from the banners that credits are being given. Is that a state-of-the-art? When you go on the tram, look what he's doing. Is that the state? Let the answer to that question be answered by the institutions I have called.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42983	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to individual debates. The first is the distinguished representative, Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42984	I would like to thank you, Mr. President, for your esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So we're here to protect the citizens. These days, citizens often call me and say they protect us little people. I don't want to say that we here today protect little people, because every citizen of ours is a great man. But we must not allow them to be small, to be victims of breach of the justice system of the Republic of Croatia, to be the victims of some lengthy process in the judicial system. So anyway, this law here is good. And as we said, it's not about one kind of financial institution, it's not about what was in the past, it's about moderation not to repeat it in the future. So we've identified that there's been a lot of conclusion of a loan contract that has some sort of provision that makes them worthless. I would just point out here, maybe I could fix up a little of my colleague Lovrinović and colleague Ante Babic. A colleague, Ante Babić, said that such contracts were not in Imotsko, and you mentioned that they did not come together throughout Croatia, but in Istria and Dalmatia, we had attractive objects all over Croatia and they really agreed on the territory of Croatia. But here's the key that tells us that the goal, perhaps of some kind of contract, was more of those properties that were attractive than just giving out credit services that were made of making some kind of profit. And that's what divides this situation into two levels. So we can set ourselves up like this, and in our daily conversation, we're discussing whether it's okay to protect someone who's made some kind of commitment and then doesn't execute them. But that's not what this is about. The word here is that indeed, these contracts had elements of nothingness, that they didn't work by the rules, that they didn't have the permission of the CNB, the ministries, and a lot of other things did that were immoral, but maybe we can't get rid of them. We discussed it two weeks ago in the first reading of the Law on Housing Consumer Credit, where we clearly stressed, unfortunately, it cannot go retroactively, that the objective of giving credit must not be real estate, or in giving credit we cannot assess whether the person, meaning whether the person is able to assess whether the person is able to repay a loan, and whether there is so much property that might cover that debt day. So I want to stress here that the government has made a lot of amendments here, almost every article, but they don't apply to the essence, they just help make this law as best as possible, and so I want to say that it's really on this example that we're all smoking in the same sail and that really all of the clubs are giving amendments that contribute to this law and that they're really going to have an effect, and that today is one situation, when there's no such ugly politicization, which we had last week, when we're passing certain laws. So, I would like to stress that the support of this law has also been given by the government, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice has responded to those fears that we will have legal consequences, i.e. to our citizens, perhaps that they will repay the debts of those who have not paid back. So I want to point out here to all the citizens, that everyone who has taken some funds, that the funds will pay you back. But unfortunately, since they've signed worthless contracts, this law will allow them not to pay what's based on such a worthless contract. So all the money that's someone, and he's got to get it back, but not unfairly what it was with that loaning money. And we definitely can't allow foreign banks to own in the Republic of Croatia like they wouldn't dare do business in their own countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42985	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're going to take a break and see each other again at 3:00 a.m. here. Thank you. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42986	Final draft law on the integrity of the credit agreement with an international mark concluded in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 121. The applicant is a representative of Marin Škibola, the debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches, Article 121(1). The Rules of Procedure lay down that amendments are to be declared by the Proposer and by the Government if he is not the legislator. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure states that if the final draft of the law has not been submitted by the Government on an amendment disagreed with by the Government, it is voted separately. In accordance with the abovementioned articles of the Rules of Procedure, in order for the amendments to be accepted, they must be accepted by both the proposings and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We move to a statement on the amendments, the representative of the applicant, imported colleague Marin Škibola. Vlad's representative is counterpart Josip Salapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. So we're going in order, first amendment, amendment to the government of the Republic of Croatia. First, I would like to ask for an indication of the proposer, colleague of Marina Scybol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42987	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42988	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42989	The amendment to Article 1 is adopted in the amended text: Article 1 is amended and reads as follows: “This law applies to the loan agreement with an international mark concluded in the Republic of Croatia between debtors and unauthorized creditors, except for contracts concluded as debtor by the Republic of Croatia or units of regional or local self-government. Legal person who owns or weighs the owner of the Republic of Croatia or units of regional, regional or local self-government on the date of the contract. Legal person who is, on the date of conclusion of the contract, the budgetary or extra-financial beneficiary of the state budget or the budget of the units of the regional, regional or local self-government. A legal person who is a large or medium entrepreneur on the date of the conclusion of the contract within the meaning of the law governing the accounting of entrepreneurs. This law shall apply to other legal transactions concluded in the Republic of Croatia between debtors and unauthorized creditors resulting from or based on an international credit agreement referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Explanation. The amendment is accepted for the reason cited by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its opinion that legal certainty is subject to exceptions when this law does not apply. Exceptions where this law does not apply should be prescribed in order to exempt debtors who have or may have sufficient knowledge of the legal consequences of the obligations they undertake from the application of this law. It is about debtors who, because of their size, usually do business and do business with international features.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42990	I'd like a representative of the government now to show up on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42991	Thank you very much. The government accepts an amended form of amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42992	Therefore, this amendment becomes an integral part of the law in the amended form as explained by the applicant. Moving to Amendment 3. These are representatives Goran Aleksic and Pedja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42993	It's unacceptable. Explanation. The amended content of the draft law states that Article 8(2) excludes the relevance of the right of the Republic of Croatia to the contracts in question, and therefore does not require any further regulation as proposed by this amendment. This proposal concerns the integrity of the loan contract resulting from the credit emission of legal persons who did not have the authorisation to work in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the proposed amendment comes out of the reach of the proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42994	I ask the Secretary of State to appear on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42995	The government does not accept with the same explanation as the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42996	Thank you. And now we're going to the amendment promoter. That's an esteemed colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42997	Thank you, Mr. President. The explanation given by the applicant has nothing to do with the amendment. If the applicant had carefully examined the amendment, he would have understood that this was correcting one lack of law, which is that this law is only related to those contracts that are physically concluded on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. There is a colleague and colleague among us in whose area these cooperatives have been intensified. And we know that not all contracts are made physically in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but what it was about. The mediator came to the Republic of Croatia, persuaded, sold his product as illegal as it was because they were not allowed to do so on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and the signatories of the loan agreement would urge, for example, to come to Austria, for example to Klagenfurt or where, elsewhere and there, a physical credit agreement. The regulation we have called on is only an indicator of how European law solves this situation, which is that when situations like this are in the domain of consumer contracts. Therefore, when they are concluded with natural persons outside their activities, then the law of the Republic of Croatia applies. And yes, that regulation applies, but if we don't adopt this amendment, the law of the Republic of Croatia says that only those contracts that are physically concluded on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and those where people were naive enough to screw up because I don't have the words to go to Austria to get their cat. Believe me, my dear colleague, there are a whole series of disputes in front of the Croatian court that differs from the one who made the contract in the Republic of Croatia in just one detail. Everything else is the same, everything else is equally illegal. That is why I insist on voting on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42998	Okay. We therefore vote on this amendment which does not accept either the proposing or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so we move on to Amendment 4. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u42999	Amendment 3 to Article 2 shall be adopted in the amended text as follows: the name of the article which reads as ‘the meaning of the term’ shall be added above. Article 2 is amended as follows: ‘Article 2 within the meaning of this Act, the term ‘debt’ means a natural or legal person who, by means of a credit agreement with an international mark, is an approved credit, i.e. the person for whom the credit has been granted as a judicial person, the debtor, the defendant or the bailiff. A non-authorised believer shall designate a legal person who has granted credit to the debtor an international credit mark on the date of conclusion of an international credit agreement and offers or provides credit approval services in the Republic of Croatia and if, for the provision of such services, it does not meet the conditions laid down by a specific regulation or does not have the prescribed approvals and/or consent of the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. A loan agreement with an international mark shall mean a loan agreement, a loan agreement or another contract approved by an unauthorized creditor by a certain amount of cash, and the debtor shall be obliged to pay the agreed interest and the amount of money recovered at the time and in the manner agreed. Explanation. The amendment is accepted for the reason cited by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its opinion that the definition of an unauthorized believer is further improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43000	Thank you. Please show the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43001	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43002	Therefore, this amendment in the amended form becomes an integral part of the law. We now move on to Amendment 5, also to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43003	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43004	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 6. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43005	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43006	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 7. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43007	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43008	And he becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 8. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43009	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43010	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 9. A representative's club lives wall and power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43011	It's unacceptable. Explanation. Paragraph 2 of the amendment does not specify to whom the property has been sold, to an unauthorized believer, to an executive under debt or to a third party, and the circumstances affect how this law is applied. If the property is sold by debt to an unauthorized believer, the authorising officer, Article 7 of this Act shall apply. Paragraph 3 of the amendment is impossible to install in this law, its content is disputed in relation to the Law on Property and other real rights, because the conscience of 3 persons as a buyer must not be questioned in advance by law. A third party's unconsciousness as a buyer shall be resolved by special laws and by special procedures, including criminal laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43012	Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43013	The government does not accept with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43014	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the amendment promoter, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43015	Dear ladies and gentlemen, a large number of citizens have already sold their properties at auctions, such as the Milanovic family from Brkača or the Dukic family from Zagreb, etc. And unless this amendment is accepted, their real estate will never be returned to them, and this proposal that I made, in fact, protect their interest and in case they prove no harm to the lawsuits, they're being returned to the real estate, and as far as the customers at these auctions are concerned, I think they knew what they were actually buying, because they were generally either directly reported by those cooperatives or their companies, daughters or persons associated with them, and in the end there were also records of real estate disputes and the problem was actually in judges who went with auctions despite the notes of the dispute and rushed them at all costs. So, of course, I'm asking to vote on my amendment. This time I call on all the representatives who care about these people, whose properties have been taken from these illegal cooperatives, cooperatives that have done business without the approval of the CNB to support it and thus protect all those people who are like the Milanovic family, where we had some day of dissuasion, people have become homeless, without a roof over their heads, without their jobs because they had a family economy within their own house which was mortgaged and this is, this is the amendment that actually gives, protects all these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43016	Thank you, colleague Pernar. Therefore, I am voting on amendments that are not accepted by the applicant and which are not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We move to Amendment 10. It is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43017	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43018	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 11. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43019	Amendment 9 to Article 8 shall be adopted in the amended text referred to in Article 8 and shall read, Article 8 in disputes arising from an international credit agreement within the meaning of this Act, the debtor may initiate proceedings against an unauthorized believer, either before the courts of the State in which the unauthorized believer is established or independent of the seat of an unauthorized believer, before courts, places where the debtor is resident or established.’. A non-authorised believer within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article may initiate proceedings against debtors only before courts of the State in which the debtor is resident or head office. In the case of zero contracts within the meaning of this Act, it is exclusively the law of the Republic of Croatia, and the court will apply this law, in the light of a claim to determine the integrity of the contract, without examining the existence of other laws, the presupposed assumptions on the applicability of the law in relation to the place where the contract is concluded. The reasons for the amendment are accepted for the reason stated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its opinion, with the additional provision being made that it is exclusively applicable to non-ferrous contracts within the meaning of this law, and that the Court of Justice will apply this law on the basis of a claim to determine the integrity of the contract. This supplement is needed to avoid any doubts in court practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43020	Please show the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43021	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43022	Thank you. Therefore, that amendment also becomes an integral part of the amended form. The 12th amendment is the amendment of a representative of Marina Skiboli. He must be shown by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43023	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43024	And he becomes an integral part of the law. The 13th Amendment is the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43025	It's unacceptable. Explanation. In the light of the Constitutional Court's solution, which examines the constitutionality of the Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, and in light of the already accepted amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43026	The government's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43027	The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43028	And the Legislative Committee as well as the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43029	In line with the argument given that the original text has been changed, we withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43030	Thank you. The 14th Amendment is an amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43031	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43032	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the 15th Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43033	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43034	And he becomes an integral part of the law. So now we're going to vote on the law itself. I am voting on the final proposal of the law on the integrity of the credit agreement with an international mark concluded in the Republic of Croatia, together with the amendments which were agreed by the applicant and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. ... I find that unanimously with 134 votes for, 0 abstentions and 0 against, a law on the integrity of the credit agreement with an international mark was adopted in the Republic of Croatia along with the amendments adopted. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43035	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] And now we come to the point: - Proposal for a law on the EU Mobility Agency and programmes, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 131. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to be read first shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science, Education Mako Glunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43036	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. It is therefore a law on the EU Mobility Agency and programmes. The agency itself was established by the Law on the EU Mobility Agency and programmes as a public institution in whose jurisdiction the implementation of the EU Education and Youth Programme is in line with the negotiating position under the accession negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the EU. The Agency was established for the purpose of managing EU programmes in the field of education and youth. Since 2008, when the Agency itself has been established in competence, the Ministry of Education and the Agency has allocated a number of additional programmes, networks and initiatives in the field of education, training and science, and has thus significantly passed its activity. In January 2014, the agency became a national agency for Erasmus Plus, the new EU programme in the field of education, youth training and sports. In addition, since January 2014, the Agency has established a large part of the national support structure for the new EU Framework Programme for Research and Development Horizon 2020 and has received as much as 17 of the 23 thematic areas of this programme itself. In addition to these key extensions, the Ministry of Science and Education has given the Agency the responsibility to implement a regional mobility programme in higher education, etc. The CEPUS programme then implements bilateral agreements for the area of higher education cooperation and promotes higher education abroad. In addition, given the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU and the possibility and obligation to use EU funds, the Agency plans to report projects in the competition of other bodies related to the mentioned areas as part of its activities. The Agency is obliged to work to strengthen and upgrade its core activities using funds from the European Social Fund. Following this, it is necessary to adopt a new law on the Agency in order to bring it into line with the real situation. The main issues covered by this law are the extension of the activity description and redefine the structure and bodies of the Agency in line with the new generation of EU programmes and other international programmes. In accordance with the expansion of the activities of the law, the three main areas of the Agency are clearly distinguished. These are education, training, sports, and youth areas, and eventually science. The proposed law will also create the necessary legal framework to enable the Agency to function. These are, above all, the effective integration of existing future programmes in order to open up to citizens in order to ensure timely accurate and verifiable information, which is to ensure professional support in the tendering process as well as the implementation of EU programmes and structural instruments. Finally, this law harmonizes the Agency's work with the Regulation establishing the Erasmus Plus programme. It would also point out that the implementation of this law does not require additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, the resources sufficient for the Agency to work and to implement the programme within the meaning of the Agency's obligations are planned in the State budget for 2017 and the projections for 2018 and 2019 as part of the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43037	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is no replica, but it is in any case that you have completed what we started in 2013 together with representatives of the EU Mobility and Programmes Agency, which is so necessary to amend the existing law. This is one of the agencies that can be a bright example of other state institutions, not only in the education and science system but also elsewhere that shows that in a quality way it can be managed by certain processes, how it can be co-operated in a quality way with European institutions and use all the benefits that pre-accession membership can bring benefits to our education system today, for all those measures and steps which unfortunately do not have in our state budget of money. It was the law that, in some ways, may have stalled the Agency's activity itself, it has grown, it has brought new challenges, we have become a full member of the EU, and I believe that these changes will contribute to derailing all those obstacles or removing all those obstacles that have possibly stood in our way so far and that all of us benefit from our membership in the EU, and also the benefits of the system, so that I welcome the amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43039	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Well, I'm opening a debate. First, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43040	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director of the Mobility Agency and EU programmes, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, as you have heard before us, the proposal for a law of the new law is not an amendment and an amendment but a new Law on the Mobility Agency and EU programmes in the first reading. As already said, the draft law has been discussed by the home working bodies, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, along with the unanimous acceptance and observations that you have received, which are contained in the materials. So just to remind you, the Agency for Mobility and EU Programmes was established by the 2007 Mobility Agency Act as a public institution whose responsibility is the implementation of the EU programme, as part of the then-accessible negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the EU in Chapter 26 relating to education and culture, with the purpose of managing EU programmes, and this is primarily the management of public tendering for the financing of international cooperation and mobility activities for the purpose of learning, then informing and consulting potential applicants, preparing tender documentation, checking formal criteria and assessing the quality of applications received and then later negotiating on the basis of approved projects and their funding and also monitoring and consulting as well as monitoring of contracted financial projects. And according to the Agency's Act, the Agency's activities include other EU programmes which are within the competence of the Ministry of Science and Education, which relate primarily to the mobility of researchers in the European Research Area, to the installation of Europass in the education system of the Republic of Croatia and also to the establishment of international joint study Erasmus Mundus. If we look at the activity and development of the agency in the past 10 years of its work and we analyse the data then we can see what is of course commendable that during 2009 and 2010 the agency has started to implement pilot competitions in the framework of the preparatory phase of the participation of the Republic of Croatia in EU programmes in the field of education to finance the participation of individuals, institutions and organisations in the programme for lifelong learning and in the youth programme at work. During the preparatory phase of 2009 and 2010, a total of 110 projects totalling 2 million and 800,000 euros were financed through the agency's interventions, and thus 2400 individual participants participated in the activities of international cooperation and mobility. Furthermore, since 2011, when the Republic of Croatia entered full EU membership, this preparatory phase has been completed and the Republic of Croatia has continued to participate in those programmes with equal rights and opportunities as other countries that are EU member states and full participants in the programme. Thus, a total of 1579 projects totalling 26 million 980 thousand euros were financed within the programme for lifelong learning and youth programmes, through the work of the Mobility Agency, and 22 000 724 individual participants participated in the activities of international and cooperation and mobility. Of course and afterwards, in early 2014, when it starts new, implementation of the new generation Erasmus+ programme for the field of youth education and sports, the Mobility Agency continues with its many activities. Thus, during 2014 and 2015, a total of 587 projects of 20 million and 43 000 euros were agreed and funded through Erasmus+ as a follow-up to the Erasmus programme and all of these activities related to mobility and international co-operation were attended by 10 thousand 239 individual participants. And, of course, by the end of the Erasmus+ programme, this is somewhere if I am not mistaken in 2020, Croatia is expected to have about a billion kuna at its disposal for the activities and mobility of international cooperation. And also by ending the previous generation of the EU programme in the field of youth, education and science, the agencies have since 2014 actually become the national agency for the Erasmus+ programme as the current largest programme in the field of youth training and education, and is setting up a large part of the national support structure for the new EU Framework Programme for Research and Development Horizon 2020. And as already said, the Agency in power gets 17 of the 23 thematic areas of Horizon 2020, and according to this, the Ministry of Science and Education has given the Agency for Mobility in Jurisdiction the promotion of the Republic of Croatia abroad, for example, such as promoting the brand programme and then the portal... Croatia if I'm not mistaken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course here's all of this data that I've given me in the time allowed is a continuous expansion of the Agency's activities from 2008 to today by taking over all of these responsibilities. And, of course, it is evident that the number of projects reported and implemented from year to year is steadily increasing, the number of agreed and funded projects is increasing, and thus the amount of funds withdrawn from the EU and, of course, the number of individual users involved in mobility programmes, which is of course the ultimate objective. And that is what it is doing to bring it into line with the real situation compared to 2007 when the first, so far, and only so far, EU Mobility and Programmes Act should actually be adopted by a new law that will primarily regulate the activities and competence of the Agency over new programmes that we will receive from the EU in the field of science and education, youth training and sports. Moreover, this extension is therefore, i.e. the regulation of the proposal to this legislative proposal, as shown in Article 5 of the Law, which regulates the Agency's activity and its competence. In line with the expansion of the Agency's activities, it is also necessary to bring its funding sources in line with the real situation, with the state budget being the source of funding listed by the EU, which provides the Agency with financial resources. This problem in the draft law is regulated in Article 6, also in line with the cheeseding of the Agency's activities, it is also necessary to redefine its structure and structure of the Agency's body in order to ensure an appropriate and effective organisational structure and also clearly distinguish three main areas which include the activities of the Agency, which is primarily the area of education, training and sport, then the area of youth and ultimately, the area of science. Therefore, the problem of the organisation and bodies of the Agency is regulated in Articles 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the Law. In the same way, given that the Agency is also responsible for the implementation of EU projects and structural instruments and the structure of the Agency, it is necessary to comply with the requirements of the new generation of EU structural instruments for the period 2014 to 2020, and in line with the EU Regulations relating to Erasmus Plus and Horizon 2020 programmes, and this issue is regulated in Article 5(1) of the proposed draft law, including the Agency's activities in terms of the management of projects under the Erasmus Plus programme, the Europass, CEPUS programme, and the bilateral agreements programme for the implementation of mobility in higher education, the promotion programme for higher education and the same, the Horizon 2020 and Euraxess programme. The implementation of the EU regulations which I have talked about regarding the Erasmus Plus and Horizon programmes is therefore regulated in Article 2 of the Law. Finally, the proposed law of the Agency for Mobility and EU Programmes needs, and this is therefore the basic purpose, to create a legal framework primarily for the development needs of strengthening and upgrading the Agency's activities to projects financed from EU funds and also to effectively integrate existing and future programmes in the field of education, training of young sports and sciences, in particular those related to the development of educational policies and also to improve the system of vocational education, and this issue is regulated in Articles 5, 3 and 4 of the Law proposal, of course, the primary objective is primarily to openness to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to exercise the right to use mobility and international cooperation and, of course, effective and meaningful use of EU funds. As already noted, the implementation of this law does not require additional funding in the state budget and the Agency's resources for the work and implementation of the programme under its jurisdiction are planned for 2017 with projections for 2018 and 2019 under the Ministry of Science and Education budget. And finally, in line with everything I have stated so far, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposal of the Law on the Mobility Agency and EU programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43041	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Mark Welligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43042	Thank you, Vice President. Here it is, fellow Members, in your presentation, you have really presented a number of positive data that the agency can raise in these 10 years of its work. In fact, we can see that, in some ways, work in that one good direction has been established until Croatia was a member of the EU, and it has continued since we became a member of the EU, from the number of users, the number of projects that have been implemented to one satisfaction of users. I found on the very pages of the agency one research that was conducted and high grades, I think that the average grades, 4.2 in all those areas, of transparency, of understanding, of regulations, etc. I will say just one example that other public institutions in the Republic of Croatia, especially those that work with EU funds, and unfortunately we all know that we are coughing too much, this is one bright example, and we hope that these amendments to the laws that go in the direction of actually dividing into three of the most important areas of education and sport, so young people, to science, will contribute to our young people, who are mostly using these programmes, to further connect with their peers within the EU, to communicate even more and better, to go to exchanges in the EU, in fact to contribute to Croatia as a state and society as we all want in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43043	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representatives of Sanja Putice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43044	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representatives Bedeković, you pointed to the part-round work of this agency and would say that it is one of the brighter points in the Croatian education system, but would also point to several other perspectives through which the work of the Mobility Agency and the EU programme can be observed. It is a question of the primary visibility of the agency, the institutions of the Croatian education system, schools, universities, higher universities, but also of the mobility of teachers, students and students themselves. The mobility of students can be said in view of our recent accession, I would say to the EU, is satisfactory, but I think it is necessary to work on the mobility of teachers and teachers, especially in view of the processes that await us in the curricula reform and everything that the Croatian education system could look at other examples in EU Member States. I would especially warn here about the lack of personnel, i.e. insufficient staffing of schools and universities, i.e. all teams that could systematically monitor the EU Mobility and Programmes Agency programmes, given that schools and universities are usually based on their existing housing and that, unfortunately, so far in the Croatian education system, no way has been found for strategic employment of people who would follow these programmes. It should also be said that it is commendable that the number of Erasmus Plus students is increasing and that it should also point out in the future perhaps better co-operation of agencies within the Ministry of Science, education among themselves. Therefore, the Agency for Education and Education, the Agency for Professional Education, the Agency for Mobility and EU programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43045	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43046	Well, here's a colleague we thank you for this observation and, of course, I believe that she was really in favour of a constructive discussion and encouraging the agency to take care of this. Namely, as I have spent the last ten years of my work experience in a higher education system and I can indeed testify that it is very necessary to develop, therefore, and encourage our students to mobility and go to study at least one semester out and back. And in our higher education system, this trend is really growing. A little less we have it you've well noticed the represented departure, so the teacher's mobility. In order to strengthen, so these trends certainly aside from Erasmus coordinators in higher school institutions, in colleges, high schools, I hold that it is necessary to take a step further and indeed set up departments I will call them there, so mobility teams and international cooperation with an appropriate number of employees, which is difficult to implement nowadays given the need to hire new people. In any case, it seems to me that all of this is about mobility and promoting mobility one trend that is in the system of our higher education takes, therefore the upward path, and I certainly think that the Mobility Agency should further work on both visibility and training, so the staff that will work on it. While it seems to me that high schools in these trends are only coming up at the moment with insufficient support from professional services. And we will have to make additional efforts especially in the system of vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43047	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43048	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the EU Mobility Agency and representatives of the Ministry of Science, Education. The SDP club will support the proposal for a new law of the Mobility Agency and EU programmes. The agency as I have already said and in the opening replica itself is an example of how in fact public institutions, public institutions in the Republic of Croatia, which, with the Ministry alone, serve certain parts of the system should function. This agency is probably known in the Ministry of Science and Education system, which promotes EU programmes and other international programmes from education, science, youth training. Its tasks include informing and consulting from its portfolio on all international opportunities in the field of formal and informal learning, where, unfortunately, Croatia is in this segment at the very beginning of EU member states. So in those parameters that we measure ourselves in. Unfortunately, the percentage, i.e. the share of citizens who participate in lifelong learning in any way is, in some ways, the worst in Croatia compared to all the parameters that we measure against other EU Member States. Agency all these promotional informative activities which is very important for our society performs absolutely free of charge. So all your services give citizens free of charge. It also has another segment other than this information and consultation, which is to carry out the whole tendering process or the call and allocation of funds for the use of support, i.e. for participation in mobility programmes, advises users, provides support for them in the application, selection and allocation of funds and oversees the allocation of the funds themselves. It has already proved itself in this pre-accession period before joining the EU. From 2009 until the very entry into the EU as part of the Lifelong Learning Programme and the Youth in Action programme, more than 2089 projects of more than 29.3m euros were provided, and 25124 citizens of the Republic of Croatia participated in some form of international activities aimed at learning and training. Furthermore, in 2104 and 2015, the Erasmus Plus programme provided funding for 587 projects worth 28.43m euros, and 10239 of the Republic of Croatia participated in international activities aimed at learning and training. And it's important to note, it's really very important that in all this activity, the agency has stood out in respect of high standards of transparency and the public of work, which you will allow me to express it is not inescapable. It means that she performs her initial function, but that there are no tails behind her, that she is very transparent in her work. And that's what's important, because she's a service to the citizens, she's a system that provides certain support, that her public and visibility as well as her colleague Putica's is extremely obvious. The best proof of that is only questioning. He said something about it in the line of his colleague Weeley. A study of satisfaction among users of the programme for lifelong learning and youth programme in action. The high assessments carried out in that study suggest that users who are actually the final consumables for which the agency exists. They show high marks for each category of measures as part of the survey questionnaire, and the average service assessments range from 4.20 which is the lowest rating, up to 4.88 which is the highest rating as can be seen, regardless of the work on service categories, work and compliance with the rules, answers to user needs, quality information, labour performance, or performance of problem management results, work in accordance with deadlines and transparency. It is therefore an extremely positive perception of the work of a public agency, which is not the usual view of the public in giving an opinion on the work and effectiveness of public agencies, unfortunately, but that is also the fact that we must face. It is also a study that has not been conducted so far among public institutions, and we consider it an example of good practice, which should not remain undetected, and similar practices should be extended, perhaps start with agencies in the system of education and education then spread to others. What I think is important is that the Croatian Eurodesk Centre also acts as a free info service of the European Commission and is extremely important for informing young people and those who work with young people because it provides them with information on European programmes and policies for young people, mobility, learning and improved. In 34 European countries and more than 1200 Eurodesk multipliers, as many as 17 of them are in Croatia. It's a piece of information that says the same thing about itself. The expansion of the organization of civil society, which is Erubdesk multipliers, has brought added value, as shown in the number of implementation activities, number, users, Eurodesk network, i.e. the organisation that makes up the network, are professional in many areas, and are further educated to survive more quality, more accurate information to its users. This is proof of the excellent cooperation of the agency Eurodesk Hrvatska, but also of Erubdesk multipliers, which are this important part of civil society. Some of the activities that are being carried out are this moving campaign, in Croatia just organized more than 60 activities in nearly 30 cities and settlements. There are additional activities, and the influence of multipliers, you can also see through additional engagement, youth information, where we are from 19 countries, even 3 by the number of organised events in this move campaign, and the second by review of the website, and we are the winner of the award-winning drip game from Croatia. These and many other figures talk about the efforts that organisations like multipliers and Eurodesk Croatia are investing in better informing young people, and are recognised in other countries, as an example of good practice. The number, flexibility, inclusion and continued engagement on important programmes involving youth, education, research and programmes such as Erasmus+, Horizon.2020, Youth in Action, etc., have been achieved as we see great successes and are proof of how good it is that the Republic of Croatia, a member of the EU, and are an example of good practices. The Agency fully justified its existence. Evidence of this is also a high percentage of the use of software from an average of 98.6%, which is a special success to the agency and all users of the program. The point is that all that we have at our disposal, all those benefits, which we can benefit from from from the EU, we have so much courage, knowledge, patience, and endurance, that we use them as much as possible. Therefore, we believe that all these additional activities that will be carried out, i.e. by implementing a space by adopting a new law, will contribute to an even more effective withdrawal of funds and even better work by the agency itself. What is important to highlight through the very proposal for a new law, the agency will finally be able to, she is a bit of a human being as to say, I will not say suspended, but undercut, I don't mean in terms of professional people working in it, but I mean in the number of people who are really necessary to increase so that the effect of the agency itself can be improved. Secondly, the current structure, the management structure of the agency itself, has slowed down certain processes, so, in fact, all 74 employees or how many of them are around that number, were directly responsible to the director of the agency itself, because there was simply no such structure that would provide for certain areas of sectoral or sectoral competence and functioning. So through the adoption of a new law, it will allow faster, more expedient work, and that responsibility will in some way descend to lower levels of decision-making, or there will be that possibility, which will lead to the acceleration of certain business processes, which is, of course, necessary if we know that we are expanding the work of the agency itself. I also support the proposal in the law itself, that the administrative council, the number of members of the Governing Council, is reduced from 6 to 4, perhaps leading to better efficiency of work. Because as we had the opportunity to hear on the board, it was very often known that the administrative council could not hold its meetings because of the lack of quorum. Now, whether it is a problem in the number of board members or in the irresponsibility of persons appointed to those administrative councils, I would not now enter those doubts, or the clearing of those doubts. But surely the administrative council, which will only count 4 members after the adoption of this law, will contribute to making it possible to work in a much better and more efficient manner. Likewise, members of the board will have to meet a lot more standards than it was now. I am not going to list now, what are the conditions that will have to satisfy all those who will want to apply for, run the agency through the board, and certainly, they will have to meet the very strict criteria prescribed by this law. You've all seen him, you've seen the criteria. I also welcome the toughness, and now I'm going to express myself in a similar way, just the criteria for selecting the director, or the director, or the person of the roof person who runs the agency itself, as well as its assistants. With all due respect to people who think that they could, knew and wanted, I think it is extremely important that some formal conditions such as education are sought here, etc., but that it is extremely important and that there is one strong, strong experience in these precisely EU institutions, and even during this period of pre-accession negotiations with the EU, because if a person who runs the agency understands all processes, if in these processes of this pre-accession period it can certainly, in a much, much more quality way, lead one such organisation and for the needs of the system on the one hand or the end users, but on the other hand, and for all that the state expects it to be quick to be effective because these things cannot wait. I believe that the work of the agency in the future will result in a great absorption of the funds from EU programmes and funds, that we will have a number of good and quality projects, that we will have an even wider range of end-users, because it is those groups of people who will gain some experience through their education and in another EU member, that they will share experiences with their colleagues and colleagues in other EU countries, and through the implementation of these skills when they return to Croatia, we believe that they will also know how to enrich our system, that is, in fact, the point that all of those skills that some other Member States have to absorb and apply them, but also that we also see where they have been wronged, that we are learning on their mistakes, that we are not wronging ourselves on that path. I think in the form of innovation, that the agency will help through its work to educate our human potentials, that we will become a more innovative society but that through this we will create a better and more tolerant society that accepts diversity in the future and that through this agency and through its work we will be proud of the EU member because we can really say through this agency that if we compare it with other similar agencies in some other countries, we can say that we are here but couples if not better than them. I know that in this Croatian Assembly there are not often such words of praise that there may be certain ministries of individual agencies but just when we get a chance to talk about those institutions that do their job well, then we need to use it and show that in Croatia, however, not all of them are so black, and that everything is not so gray that there are bright examples that we need to be the star of some kind of leadership for others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43049	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43050	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. In your presentation, you praised the agency's work and activities in attracting funds from the EU and as those multipliers through the acquisition of the knowledge and skills of all those who participated in different programmes. And you mentioned well that within the framework of the 200 agencies operating in the Republic of Croatia, some of us do not know the name or why they are serving, but here we should certainly support the adoption of this law and say that this agency justifies its existence. However, we always have to ask ourselves what we can do even more to make it better and more efficient, and I say this because many founders of the regional self-government unit and some cities do not have enough resources to help their educational institutions, primary and secondary schools to participate in different EU projects because they do not have enough money to pre-financing and co-finance such projects. So perhaps in this direction the establishment of a fund for co-financing and pre-financing of EU projects would help to include the agency in that part. What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43051	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Vlaovic, that you've detected well, it's not only a problem of these micro-call projects where the founders, most local and regional self-government units, do not have in their budgets the funds for this so-called. national contribution. We also have this problem with much more important capital state projects where we also have big, big problems so that we have to weigh what are our priorities so that we can secure that national contribution for the very first step in using funds. However, that is not the biggest problem either. We have projects where we don't have to provide absolutely anything, so our founders the school directors of individual cities, the county actually throws that money in the trash anyway. The school fruit scheme, for example, is one project of the Joint Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Agriculture launched in 2013 where we managed to ensure through EU funds all the assumptions that our schools use funds and that parents and children are free of charge of a healthy meal in schools, get some fruit, vegetables, and now the next step should be dairy products. However, here a few days ago information was published in one media and it is true, unfortunately, that more than 50% of the schools in Dalmatia absolutely do not benefit from such benefits, does not want or want to or do not know. Only a little effort needs to be made, and they don't even need budget funding. Everything is free, everything is secured from the EU, but this one ingenuity, insensitivity or insolence brings us into a situation and where it is all free that we are not able to take something that is good for our children, which is good for our schools, which is good for our cities, for our counties. We have a lot of problems, but one step at a time I guess we'll be able to solve them and solve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43053	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Independents and HSU representatives, the next one will be spoken by the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43054	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Director, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I first thank our introduction, and also my colleagues who spoke before me for painting the entire system and the work of the agency, and I join the congratulations since this is the first information I have in such a quality work. And that's not how I felt my part today. I'd like to say a very short word about this existing law. First, I have to correct my colleague's votes because we haven't made a precedent in this law, and this board has five members. In Article 8(3), the first indent states that the president and 1 member of the Ministry of Education and Science, meaning there are 5 total, would not be an odd number and innovation failed. But, well, the lapus happens, you made me go see. So what would interest me in this law is in part of the reasoning of the law, given that the proposing often calls for a system of lifelong learning, really a data that I haven't found anywhere as much as citizens over 50 years of age participate in this lifelong learning. I think the intensity of lifelong learning was to include an older part of the population that could still compete with their 15-year-olds on the labour market, but not only that, but for raising the very level of education in total citizenship. So that's what I'm interested in, so I'm going to beg you, given that this is in the first reading if you have that information that you're able to somehow extract that data or if you know it in the final statement, in the final word. The second proposal concerns, respectively, the reference to Article 9 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This year, I was kind of stuck with the nomotechnical eye in Article 9(3), which sort of falls under Article 14. Namely, it is the administrative council and the administrative council's competences and item 2 says it decides by majority of votes and then comes paragraph 3 which is a ban on supervision by members of the Governing Council. In a sense, this is part of article 14 that speaks of oversight where members of the Governing Council are forbidden to exercise supervision. Because members of the Governing Council are normally obliged to make decisions and manage, i.e. to control the work of the Agency or the legality of the work and all decisions of the Agency and under moral and material responsibility are responsible for the legality of the decisions. So this really item 3 belongs to me somewhere in Article 14 that is definitely talking about supervision, who is conducting surveillance, who is performing surveillance and who, and then it would be complete and who is not allowed to exercise supervision. So please consider this an objection that is acceptable to make it possible to redecorate it when editing the law for a second reading. And the third thing I wanted to say is that if we have agencies and we're going to have them believe them with this kind of successful work, then maybe it's a good idea that their reports don't end just in the government of the Republic of Croatia. It may also be useful to consider, in the context of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, that such reports end on parent committees and that the parent committees adopt them with or without the possibility of debate at plenary sessions. Not only would the government have some insight into the success or failure of the work of certain agencies, but it is also our agencies and we as people's representatives to say it would be good if we were as much involved in those reports as possible, not that the Government accepted the report and we read that decision and we read nothing and we know nothing about it. So I would also like the parliamentary representatives to be more involved in this knowledge of the work of the agencies, because what we will carry out outside if we have no idea what works well. This is like a suggestion, about it, I don't know if you think it's worth thinking about, we can also think about changing the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and perhaps also about legal provisions. The club of Independent Representatives and the Croatian Retirement Party will support this bill in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43055	Thank you. And your exposure caused two replicas. One is, the first is the distinguished representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hrelj, I have briefly reported for the replica, based on this latest proposal that I consider very quality, not only for what you said but also for some other reports discussed by the Assembly in a semi-empty assembly and with little interest and waiting several years to come to the agenda, we still have a report from 2014. Therefore, I personally support your proposal, and in my club, I will suggest that in some amendments to the Rules of Procedure, a little different way of working especially when it comes to reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43057	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43058	Dear colleague Jovanovic, I thank you for your replica and you have only given me the opportunity to say the thought to the end. So the basic idea was to get the reports on boards, to get to know the wider circle of people with concrete business agencies, to participate, to prepare for discussion if they're going to discuss such a matter on the board. But I would also leave the possibility of a decision to decide on the importance of the subject, the importance of the report, its positive or bad side to finally end it in a plenary session debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43059	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of the Voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43060	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelja, thank you for correcting me, exactly, I have misrepresented the information on behalf of the club that the administrative council will count four members under the new law, that 4 members plus president, thank you very much. And secondly, technically, I support this proposal of yours that, in fact, at least the parent board is familiar with the report on the work of agencies that are kind of part of it, because I believe that, I don't want to offend anyone, don't get me wrong, but I think today's debate on this law will be quite informative for most of the MPs and perhaps some MPs didn't even know that we have a jewel like this in the very system that we can praise, which we can mate with many modern European countries. I know this is difficult, given the fact that the agencies in Croatia, here is the founder of the Agency Government of the Republic of Croatia, but all the powers of the founders are borne by the Resort Ministry of Science and Education, the agency does not even seem to be obliged to report to the Government of Croatia, it is duty to do so to the Minister of Science and Education, but it may be necessary to see if there is any way that members of the parent committees who are very well accounting, I think this is still an integral part and the budgetary user in the system of the Ministry of Science and Education, we adopt that budget, and it is not bad that we as representatives at least in the parent committees get to know the work of the agencies, and to see in fact in which direction only the Ministry is going but also these key components without which the Ministry could not work, not only the ministry, but not only the whole system, specifically in this case of education and science.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43061	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43062	Dear fellow Voter, you do not need to thank me, it is my duty not to go together and collectively into public what it is, so it is my duty to react, not because of you, nor to diminish your knowledge of your area, I cannot compete near you, I acknowledge that superiority, but know that this was a gesture of good intentions. And I was also invited to suggest that such a debate would be held on the parliamentary committees, by the working bodies of the home, precisely because I too acted very informatively on the work of the agency today, so I simply wonder why we would keep it to ourselves, why good things would not be made available to all the citizens, by means of MPs or by the decision of the representatives to do so, in order for such a debate to be held at the plenary session, to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43063	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. He's not here, he's losing his right to speak, and then we'd finally hear a respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Science and Education, Mr. Matko Gluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43064	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, so I thank you for all these pleasant words and praises. What these questions of yours mean, which for users over 50 years, we're going to get written down, so they're going to draw up records. And as for this surveillance, what you have combined with Article 9 of Article 14, simply within Erasmus plus the programme is agreed, so that the ministry does not participate in the evaluation, or control of these projects, so that through political pressure it does not simply affect the selection of individual members, but we can explain it in writing. Nothing, that's it, uh, I see the axes on the second reading then. Bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43065	Thank you very much. ... A little late, but okay, go ahead, go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43066	Thank you, Vice President. I know you're a tolerance. I'm not a secretary of state, I didn't react to having something against banning surveillance. I just said that this was not part of Article 9, but of Article 14, so Well, that's right, so to remove every dilemma, I don't mind that it's prescribed by various contracts and everything else, but it just doesn't belong to me in that article. [[Intruder Gluncic: You'd put it there.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43067	Okay, thank you. I'd like to conclude the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43068	Second, the Proposal for a Law on the Mobility Agency and the European Union programmes, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 131. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a Law on the Mobility Agency and the European Union Programmes, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 129 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43069	And now we will move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 140. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered in boxes, on the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which are laid down in the first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Protection and Social Policy, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Željko Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43070	Dear gentlemen and MPs, today we have a first reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Obligation of Health Insurance and Health Protection of Foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, a law governing the mandatory health insurance of foreigners with an approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia. The law on compulsory health insurance of foreigners who have an approved temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia and the health care of foreigners who are not compulsory health insurance in the Republic of Croatia, and the costs of their health care shall be borne in person. The law contains provisions relating to specific groups, consisting of foreigners, nationals of third countries in the Republic of Croatia, whose healthcare funds are provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, which are parties found illegally, which apply for asylum approval or subsidiary protection, and which are granted international protection, asylum or foreigner under subsidiary protection. It is about categories of foreigners most of whom belong to vulnerable groups of children, pregnant women, disabled persons, and children without escort. The proposed Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia has made full compliance with the EU acquis. A category of foreigners of child and foreign victims of trafficking has been introduced to provide funds for health care in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Health, specifically defined foreigners who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia. The terminologically is in line with the Law on International and Temporary Protection. A legislative framework for the adoption of sublegislative regulations is also established to ensure continued and accessible health care for asylum seekers, asylum seekers under subsidiary protection, and members of their families as well as unaccompanied children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43071	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj has been reported here. What? ... All right, here you go. [[You can't hear it.]] But I'm asking you nicely the rules exist to respect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43072	Okay, I'm sorry. It won't happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43073	Because my colleague Bulj applied for all points immediately on the first day and individually and on behalf of the club, and then it either changes or doesn't change, etc. That's not a very good approach to things. Here you are, dear colleague of Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43074	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. Just a few words. This has been passed through the parliamentary board, and everyone has accepted it, but only a few notes about how important it is for Croatia, too, since we want to say that we are a modern European country that can face such problems at the moment, and that is to enable adequate health care and foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, compulsory health insurance and health care of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia has been governed by the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners who have been adopted and implemented since 1 July 2013. We believe that this proposal, which we have on the table today, is an improvement in the current law and, among other things, a view of extending the right to health care to certain categories of foreigners and international protection seekers. International protection seekers with emergency medical assistance, which means providing diagnostic and therapeutic procedures that are necessary to eliminate the immediate danger to life and health are guaranteed the right to the urgent treatment of diseases and serious mental disorders. While foreigners in an illegal stay are entitled to emergency medical care and the right to over-needed treatment, which is important. Furthermore, Article 2 of this Act supplementing Article 6 also extends the right to health care from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia from the position of the Ministry of Health until the age of 18, which has been granted temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia for humanitarian reasons, which is a victim of human trafficking, i.e. if a minor who has left or is a victim of organised crime or for other reasons is left without parental protection, custody and escortship. However, given that this law discusses the rights to the health care of vulnerable groups of seekers of international protection who most often have specific health needs as well as the right to child health care without escorts, we believe that these provisions should nevertheless be even clearer. In paragraph 7 of Article 19, paragraph 7 of the Law is proposed and we welcome what has happened. So, i.e. a stranger until the age of 18 who finds himself in the Republic of Croatia without parental care, i.e. without a parent or other adult who is responsible for caring for him, with the addition that they exercise the right to health care within the same range as the insured person from compulsory health insurance accepted. And these were all actually the most common remarks and advocates for children and all those who take care of these children, that these children, like all our children, have the right to be insured as a person from compulsory health insurance based on the Charter of Children. However, this law proposes that the scope of the right to health care for applicants of international protection and foreigners under temporary protection who require special reception or procedural guarantees, in particular the victims of torture, rape or other difficult forms of psychological, physical or sexual violence, be further determined by a regulation to be adopted by the Minister responsible for Health with the previous opinion of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, and such a rule is provided for by the Law on Obligatory Health Insurance, etc. since 2013 However, that regulation was not adopted even three years after this law and four were effective, so those vulnerable groups of searchers of international protection as well as those with special acceptable or procedural guarantees were left without adequate protection, and therefore we believe that that right should not have been presupposed at all to regulate the sublaws already in this law. Also, it is necessary to define clearly those who enter the definition of vulnerable groups of searchers of international protection, and therefore should be defined in accordance with the law and regulation on refugees, which is vulnerable groups as persons deprived of business ability, children without escort, older and powerless, severely ill persons, persons with disabilities, pregnant women, single parents with underage children, persons with mental disabilities, and victims of human trafficking, victims of torture, rape or other psychological, physical and sexual violence such as victims of mutilation of female sexual organs. Therefore, we believe that vulnerable groups of international protection seekers should be guaranteed the right to health care within the same scope as the insured person from compulsory health insurance. By clearly defining vulnerable groups as well as by extending their rights to health care to the same extent as insured persons from compulsory health insurance, there is no need for us to specifically cite children without escorting as special categories and to introduce the right to the urgent treatment of serious metal disorders, as it would be provided to them as vulnerable groups, searchers for international protection. Which we also dealt with by law. These would also ensure the health care of children and pregnant women, who are also left out as a group of specific needs, except in the case of unaccompanied children. In addition to the duration of the procedure for the adoption of this emergency regulation and the urgent need to address the problem of achieving the right to health care, persons with approved international protection who, due to administrative obstacles and the failure of healthcare professionals, fail to exercise their rights, which have or are forced to bear the costs of treatment themselves, I think it is also necessary to respect the fact that the right to health care has been obtained by premonition of the identity card, the stranger, or the permit of a stay which is not accepted. So, the law is not ideal, I think, over a certain period of time, we're also going to have to change it again, satisfy this part of the children, but first of all, we should think about another category of vulnerable groups that also include those that need to get what comes from basic health insurance, because we as a country at this point, the way we want and what kind of country we want to be, we need to be able and reach and secure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43075	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ines Strenja-Linić, you pointed out in your presentation some positive and negative sides of this law, however, I would like to ask if this law regulates one shocking fact that you mentioned today on the board, which I did not know about without a parent's escort, and in fact they are refugees, in our country they are located in a country not for unsettled children, but in so-called. the correctional homeland. And can this law, this current law, regulate their status in that domain, and how do you think it should be solved?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43077	Reply to the esteemed representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43078	... And I'm actually planning to open a whole story about that, because for me it was one terrible fact, that we had kids without adult escorts. [[Specially enabled.]] Children who come are a particularly vulnerable group, for them should be a special approach since they come to an unknown country where they do not know the language. If within the reception centers you can organize for those children a special part, where you will have all the support you need, these children instead and instead of being placed exceptionally in children's homes, homes for carefree children, to my astonishment, these children are placed in pre-school children's homes, meaning those former correctional homes. Right now in Ivantz, as far as I know, there are 50 kids. And now you imagine a child who has been stegmatized, who has been abused and who has managed to save himself, come, a underage child, without escort, and come to our country, instead of allowing all of our opportunities that we can, in some way, to take care of that child, to give him support, to start, in some way, if he asks for asylum, to get used to this environment. This child is placed among those children who are basically delinquents who have, no other educational measure could be helped but are located in such homes of rearing. I think it's something that our country absolutely must not allow and that needs to be dealt with urgently. But that's reality. These kids without a parent's escort, who didn't do anything, these kids are in homes like that right now. This law doesn't solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43079	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives of HSU, the next one will speak to the distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43080	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here we have before us colleagues and colleagues a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, so something that we are harmonising our legislation with European directives, with issues of the current moment and something that we welcome in principle, which does not mean that we would have nothing to talk about and troublesome about the law. In fact, the health minister recently said that we have a problem with basic health insurance, because one pays and three benefits. So one-third of wages per salary, health care contributions paid by an employer on the salary of workers, otherwise one-third of the population of the Republic of Croatia is employed, two-thirds are either pensioners or unemployed or have never worked, and everyone uses health insurance. This increases further, because we now have the cost of compulsory health insurance, the solid cost of those citizens who pay and foreigners again, I repeat, I have nothing against it, but when the state doesn't pay all the basic health insurance obligations, then there's a problem, then there's a problem with the accumulation, the accumulation of debt in the health system. Of course, there is a problem in unsettled relations, there is also a problem for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and these particular asylum seekers, victims, human trafficking, so all of which, in some ways, touch those whose status touches this law. Because we have the next situation, so they'll be, they'll get emergency medical attention, they'll get health care, what about their hospital stay? Will they, as for all the poor in the Republic of Croatia stay in the hospital, be paid by the Republic of Croatia special examinations in view of the DZ or do they have to pay for the participation? We can't give them basic health care, and for staying in the hospital that they'll pay for participation because we don't have those items now in supplementary health insurance. There are students, voluntary blood donors, there are defenders instead of which are paid and basic health insurance, but there are no foreigners or projections. I therefore point out that we must fully regulate matter rather than look at only one segment and adapt this law to EU directives. Secondly, I find Article 4 paragraph 10 where it says "the application to compulsory health insurance is not mandatory to submit to the party, citizens of the EU Member State who have been granted temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia, who possess evidence of comprehensive private health insurance". This introduces one discrimination, so there are also citizens of Croatia who have so-called Although no private health insurance is as comprehensive as public insurance, there are citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have a comprehensive health insurance policy. Now they have to pay contributions on their salary, and the foreigners on their salary, and they have a temporary stay here, etc. They won't pay for health insurance. I'm afraid we'll introduce discrimination for our citizens on this basis. But I'm not saying it's gonna be like that, but I'm asking you to prepare a second reading to take care of these details. Of course, there are a lot of good things here, and we, as a club of Independent Representatives and HSU, are going to support this in our first reading, but please point to caution against getting into some situations that are not exactly commendable. And the last thing I would have to say is this, if we go into two readings in Article 16, it says that “the health minister will adopt the regulations laid down in Articles 8, 9 and 11 of this law within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. ” So why do we have to deal with the right to emergency medical assistance, etc., etc. Why do we have to wait three months after the law is passed? It may take another three months for this debate, in those three months a proposal for a regulation can be adopted or what has been said by the distinguished colleague STRENJA-Linić why must we regulate it with a rulebook? We can have everything in the text of the law, so we don't have any dilemma, so we don't have any subsequent adoption of acts that either reduce the scope of rights or increase. They usually reduce the scope of law. Therefore, I appeal that when it goes like this, I would understand this to go into emergency procedure, then ok, something is urgent, we will not be able to solve the rules in the next three months, but this really has time to either install everything into the law or to say yes in the debate in the rulebook so that we vote for something that will be known as a whole, and not only partially familiar. But in any case, we appreciate the good intentions, we appreciate the need for European directives to be integrated into our legal system, i.e. to ensure that the matter we accept is regulated in a quality way and the club of Independent Representatives and HSU will support the adoption of this amendment and the addition of this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43081	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative of Sinish Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and a colleague. Here is the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Insurance of Foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, which, as you have heard from previous speakers, is about harmonising with the EU Directive or with the entire acquis communautaire. So I will not be much obliged to do so since the SDP club will support the adoption of this law, given that it is in line with European laws, but would point to several implementation issues and in particular that this may be clarified by the next reading. There are several questions that can be asked here that stem from the application of this law itself. One question is particularly in Article 4 where Article 6 is amended, which is referred to by counterpart Hrelja as a matter of private health insurance. Namely, I'm instigating suspicion here that it's something that's lost in translation. This is more amazing about private travel insurance called travel insurance in Croatia, not what is called private health insurance, which is substituted for basics in many EU countries, it is possible that you have an option not to want and show no trust with the national insurance company and as... in the UK or... in Ireland for example. And then you can have private health insurance. So the issue of temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia so far has been regulated so that regardless of whether you have health insurance in your home country, for any longer stays you have to report your residence. The residence application shall then report to the Ministry of Finance and pay payments shall begin to be made for the payment of the health insurance pausals to HZZO. This moves this way so that whoever has the so-called. private health insurance that then is not obliged to do so. There is no mention of the European health insurance card for the ever shorter stays and the issue of Directives 24 of 2011 in many ways mentions the length of stay and what is considered a longer stay, shorter stay, temporary transfer of workers especially construction companies, that is something that may have a major impact on the implementation of this law. Finally, HZZO, when setting prices for health services, distinguishes the prices of health services that are for, or determines, the prices of health services for all and then determines a discount for HZZO insurance companies, or for EU citizens, and that discount 78%. And then the question is whether those who fall here under this law under the notion of foreigners at which the prices of health services are then charged by health institutions, i.e. healthcare providers according to HZZO, at which price list, my assumptions then according to the increased or full price. So I'm going to repeat once again that the issue of implementing this is extremely important. Even something that I have been asking for a long time about here is specifically footballers who are temporarily staying in Croatia as strangers. If you Google their receipts from sports news or any portal, you can see that they range between 100 and 600 thousand kunas of monthly income. That if a total of 15.5% of the contributions we pay plus extra insurance charges would be a nice income for HZZO. However, as far as I know, the tax administration determines a 278 kuna flat rate per month, and that is something to their income compared to how much the citizens of the Republic of Croatia pay, and I believe that this is then an unfavourable and unfair relationship with Croatian citizens versus those foreigners who are temporarily fighting in the Republic of Croatia. So here, we're going to support the first reading of law-making, with the legislator reviewing these few things I pointed out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43083	Thank you very much. We also have one replica, the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43084	Dear colleague Varga, you reminded me of one, one event, one meeting I had with an American lady, settled in Croatia and, of course, must pay for health insurance. So we have this logic and it makes sense to me that the one who earned her pension somewhere else, settled here neatly paying for health insurance. However, I wonder why the Republic of Germany must bear health insurance costs for 100,000 pensioners who receive pensions from Germany and pay taxes in Germany. Either since you're the former health minister or maybe we should change our social agreements a little bit, start initiatives. Because really if he pays taxes in Germany and why would I, he worked there for 20, 30 years, he paid both pension and health and all the expensive and I now because he's retired, because he lives here, because maybe he has a 5-year internship in Croatia he pays, or he gets free health care because he has that status. I wouldn't want to put on him anything more on his back, on that pensioner, but the question is whether these social agreements between the two states are fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43085	The answer to the esteemed representative, Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43086	Thank you. Here is a little bit of a back-up memory, as I was head of HZZO, that as of 1 July 2013, all bilateral and multilateral social agreements between EU member states have been abolished and the laws of social harmonisation between countries under European laws apply. So, as far as I remember all the treatments that are being performed for these insurance companies that have this special status, the HZZO card and HZZO regresses then from their primary insurance companies from Germany's amount. However, I say again that it is something and not fair to health care institutions because it is de facto, I will not say about foreign citizens because they are our citizens but it is about foreign insurance companies which then pay at a discount price to the Croatian health care institution instead of paying at a full price that is still far below the price they would pay for also treatment in a German or Austrian institution. Therefore, there is a lot of work on this part of coordination, and I think that there is especially when it comes to defining foreigners, it can be done in a way that is useful for both tax administration and HZZO but also for Croatian citizens to have good and quality health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43087	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Vlatko Kopic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43088	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is known that compulsory health insurance and health care of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. 80 from 2013 The law contains provisions relating to the compulsory health insurance of foreigners with an approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia and foreigners who have an approved temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia and the health protection of non-mandatory foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, as well as provisions providing for the health care of foreigners in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The law stipulates that compulsory health insurance is mandatory to provide parties with an approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia of other EU Member States, which have an approved temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia provided that they are not compulsory health insurance in one of the Member States and nationals of a Member State other than the competent state, that is to say, under the members of countries which are from some third countries with an approved temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia. These same people need to be provided with compulsory health insurance, if EU regulations, on the coordination of the social security system by the International Social Insurance Agreement, or by a special law, are not defined differently. In its national budget, the Republic of Croatia has provided funds for health care, asylum seekers, foreigners under temporary protection, asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection and members of their families if health insurance or health care is not provided on another basis. Furthermore, a minor found in the Republic of Croatia without parental care, i.e. without a parent or other person responsible for caring for it. Furthermore, a foreigner who resides in the Republic of Croatia at the invitation of its state authorities, a foreigner who has suffered from cholera, plague, viral, haemorrhagic fever or typhoid, and foreigners who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia, are initially thinking of foreigners in reception centres for foreigners, foreigners at a temporary delay in forced distance and a stranger who has set a time limit for returning to the country of his nationality, i.e. the country from which he came. In view of the need to bring national legislation in line with EU regulations on health insurance and the health care of foreigners, this legislative proposal provides that a citizen of an EU Member State who has been granted a temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia, who has proof of private health insurance, will be free to apply for compulsory health insurance and to pay for contributions. The applicable law fully complies with the 2011 Directive. 95. The European Parliament and the Council of 13 December 2011 on standards for the qualification of third-country nationals or stateless persons for the achievement of international protection, on the uniform status of refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection and on the content of the approved protection within the scope of health care. The proposed law also addresses the issue of the process of exercising the right to the full health care of asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection and members of their families. It also lists categories of foreigners, children and foreigners, victims of trafficking in people whose healthcare funds are provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. More specifically, there are foreigners who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of this law will allow the exercise of the right to the health protection of an EU Member State citizen who has been granted temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia, who has proof of private health insurance in the manner prescribed by Directive 2004/05/EC. 38 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004, on the right of citizens of the Union and members of their families to free movement and residence in the territory of a Member State. Furthermore, the adoption of this law and the establishment of a legal framework for the adoption of sub-legislative regulations, applicants for international protection, asylum seekers, a foreigner under subsidiary protection, and members of their families, as well as a minor child found in the Republic of Croatia without parental care, i.e. without a parent or other person responsible for caring for it, will ensure continued and accessible health care. Cases shall be prescribed when the funds in the state budget for a stranger, a child up to the age of 18, who has been granted temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia, for humanitarian reasons which are the victim of human trafficking, or if he is a minor who has been abandoned or is a victim of organised crime, or for other reasons is left without parental protection, custody or no escort. In addition, an exception relating to foreigners of EU Member States who are granted temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia and who possess a comprehensive private health insurance in the sense that they are not obliged to apply for a health insurance obligation is prescribed. This law lays down foreigners who are obliged to provide compulsory health insurance in the Republic of Croatia. Mandatory health insurance shall be provided to foreigners with an approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, nationals of other EU Member States who have an approved temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia provided that they are not compulsory health insurance in one of the Member States and nationals of a non-EU Member State of temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia. If the EU rules on the coordination of the social security system by the International Social Insurance Treaty or specific law are not set out differently. Those foreigners shall be provided with the rights and obligations of compulsory health insurance, on the principles of reciprocity, solidarity and equality, in a manner and under the conditions laid down by EU rules on the coordination of the social security system with the Obligation Health Insurance Act, this law and the regulations adopted under those laws. From all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club will support further procedures for the adoption of this law because we believe that the health and basic health insurance problem of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia will be fully resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43089	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Cynthia Varge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43090	Here's my thanks. Here's colleague Kopić,... KBC Osijek, so here's what I'd like to rephrase to you only with a decidated question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is the interest of KBC Osijek in the collection of health services provided to foreigners according to this law. Are services charged at a price of 78% discounted for HZZO insurance companies or are charged for a full price that does not apply to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or to the citizens of the EU. I'm talking about third-world countries. Here in Slavonia, a few years ago, we were very much staying because of the Tovarnik and the passing of migrants. The health care system was still in place at the time. This way I would like to commend the Slavonian doctors, nurses, all technicians, emergency medical staff who did the heroic work di de facto nor suffered the health care of Croatian citizens, but also at a high level was the health care of these foreigners passing through Croatia, and there were also births and injuries and only injuries and gunshots and stabs with firearms. The injuries of all sorts of minor things like blisters, but there were also very difficult health conditions that KBC Osijek and OB Vukovar and Vinkovci all did heroically. And here, once again, I commend all the health and health care personnel involved. But the question is ultimately as the Dalmatians say, "Who will pay for it?" Who will pay at the end of the day and at what price and what is the interest of KBC Osijek? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43091	Here's my thanks to my colleague, Vargo. I am pleased that you simply recognize the quality of the work of the clinical hospital center and the health care of our colleagues in eastern Croatia. I must primarily simply agree with you when we say that it was quality and top-notch done during this time period that is behind us. Of course, as doctors as people who need to be, to solve the problem of human health, some empathy with the problems they encounter when they are in our area. In this way is the reputation of the Croatian Republic, so is the reputation of the institution which I am currently in. And I think you should help a man anyway. From this point on, what you have said is how financially profitable it is, I am sure that some large amount of money given the provision of primary health care, the provision of initial and emergency healthcare will not lead to a clinical hospital centre as well as other institutions in such a category to some financial problems. But here I also appreciate your support in further strengthening this legislative proposal itself, and I am sure that with certain suggestions you will also help to make this legal framework better and better in other readings, so in some ways you will find better and better solutions. I am sure that the Government, who is the promoter of this law, will also have certain opportunities to produce certain resources and some major possible financial problems, given that a new system is also being prepared on the new Health Protection and Health Insurance Act, as said by the ministry in the last quarter of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43092	Thank you. We have another replica, and it is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43093	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Kopic, since you come from Slavonia yourself, you are aware that Slavonia has just paid for the greatest burden of the immigrant crisis in Croatia. This refugee wave has fallen somewhat, but it definitely hasn't stopped because our day-to-day police in the transport trains are finding immigrants in the trucks. Even entire families with children. I am pleased that this law regulates the issue of the exercise of the rights of asylumees and foreigners, as well as their family's main problems of children without escorts found in the Republic of Croatia, which provides health care in the same scope as the insured persons with compulsory insurance. Primary protection is necessary to avoid further health problems, prevent diseases and viruses that threaten to uncontrollably enter our country. Of course, a colleague of Varga touched the economic side, of course it exists, the cost exists. But I believe that this law prevents even greater budget costs that could happen in case there is no prevention that this law allows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43094	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate is the distinguished representative Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, it should be pointed out that six directives of the European Union are actually implemented in the legal order. And this law can, in fact, be divided in two ways, primarily by the part that is related to the main directive that is implemented in this law, which has been implemented since 9 March 2011 on the application of patients' rights in cross-border health care. Therefore, this is the main directive that is now being implemented, but there is also a Directive since 2001 on minimum standards for the granting of temporary protection in the event of a mass inflow of displaced persons, and on measures to promote the balanced efforts of Member States in accepting and bearing the consequences of the reception of those persons. We all know, therefore, that the 2001 Migrant Crisis Directive is highly relevant. And also the 2008 Directive on common standards and procedures of Member States for the return of third-country nationals with illegal residence. What a situation it is. So, I work at the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, and we rarely had emergency psychiatric reception situations for these migrants from distant countries. Many times there has been a problem with the language barrier, but as far as these financial aspects are concerned, I think that the Ministry of Health can correct me here, primarius Plazonic, State Secretary if I am mistaken, the Ministry of Health has a special item for financing such cases when it comes to emergency medical aid for foreigners. What should also be pointed out is that the EU financing agreement ensures high protection of people's health in determining and implementing all Union policies and activities. In fact, to achieve a whole range of principles of functioning common to healthcare systems across the Union, but this directive does not exclude autonomy and the right to regulate each national legislation by each Member State, it decides which type of healthcare it considers appropriate. As regards the directive, which speaks about obligations to compensate for cross-border healthcare, it also speaks of certain restrictions. Therefore, this Directive does not apply to the issue of transplant medicine, hence the question, the access of authorities and the allocation of bodies and also does not apply to long-term care services, such as those provided by home care services in the form of day-to-day assistance in personal and household affairs, and thus, regardless of where this Directive does not apply, when the social security system applies, it protects Member States from any excessive cost, where certain persons, especially older people, could go from one Member State to another Member State. In fact, this Directive should not give the right to any person to enter, stay or stay in a Member State solely for the purpose of obtaining health care in that State. There is also a need to distinguish the issue of travel insurance which is related to a temporary stay which is more touristic and dismembering these private health insurances from individual Member States, in order to make certain overlaps related to our mandatory health insurance. I think the law is good, that the law, apart from the implementation of these 6 EU directives, allows quality health care and the provision of everything that the Croatian health system can provide not only to our citizens but also to foreigners who find themselves in the Republic of Croatia for a shorter or longer period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43096	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude an argument with that. And now we will give our word on behalf of the promoter to the esteemed Secretary of State, Željko Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43097	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I, above all, thank you on behalf of the promoter for your discussion so far, for your suggestions, for your opinions, for your wishes to advance this law of ours and make it as good as possible. I would ask you to give all your comments in writing so that we can consider them in detail and apply them or correct some of our articles already adopted. As for the situation in Ivanac, I have not been to Ivanac, I have to admit, so I can't give any qualifications about the situation that is there, I don't know if the distinguished representative Strenja-linic was in Ivanac, but what I can do as a representative of the ministry can send to Ivanac health supervision, and then on the basis of the findings that our supervisory board will determine there, let you know about the situation and what it really is about. Thank you very much, and I'll see you at the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43098	Thank you. Here we have one replica, the esteemed representative Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43099	Thank you, Vice President. Here, if I can help, there are no refugees in Ivanz right now. In the Pahinski home, there are currently few of them, and they are mostly held back for a very short period of time from about 20 days. We had a civil initiative and a foundation that we tried to inform our citizens. There are no problems, because virtually all those who have, changes have been made, and according to the statements and the persons responsible for this and by the Ministry of Interior, everything is also in the best order and under control. So everything's fine. There are currently no migrants, there are underage persons, there are not a single person located in Pahinsko's nursing home in Ivanac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43100	Thank you. The answer to the line, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43101	I thank you for your inventory, which means you've freed us from the needs of supervision in Ivantz, so if there are any problems, we'll always act this way, first to make sure of the situation, and then we'll bring some kind of court and qualification after that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43102	Thank you. We will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43103	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 140. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law." Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 128 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43104	And now we're going to move to the next point and that's: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Minimatic Convention on Living, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 150 Proposer of the Act, can we proceed, please? The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The reputed State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr Zeljko Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43105	The final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Minamata Convention on Live, with the Final Proposal of the Law, will be confirmed by the Minamata Convention on Lives, which was adopted in the Japanese city of Kumamot on 10 October 2013 in the menu in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish. Up until now 69 countries have lodged their ratification or approval instruments with the EU and the Convention will enter into force on 16 August 2017 in accordance with its Article 31(1). The EU has made its approval decision on 18 May 2017, which resulted in the adoption of a decision by the EU Council on the conclusion on behalf of the EU of the Minimatic Convention on Lives since 11 May 2017. The aim of the law is to ensure the implementation of a convention governing the protection of human health and the environment against anthropogenic emissions and the release of live and its compounds into water, soil and air, and to establish a part of the central state bodies involved in the implementation of this Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43106	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Slots, will be spoken by the distinguished representative Ines STRENJA-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I'd like to say the same thing about this ratification law, the Minamat Convention on Living, because it is necessary in public to object to it, and that is that living is a very toxic substance which, if broadcast, can cause serious risks for humans, for fish, for ecosystems, wild flora and fauna. Since it can cross great distances by air and by living water, it poses a global threat that can only be removed by cooperation at international level. The Minamatic Convention therefore provides an international regulatory framework with a view to protecting human health and the global environment on the adverse effects of living life. The EU has therefore signed the Convention with its members on 10 October, as we heard in Kunamot in Japan in 2013 and has committed to ensure its ratification and implementation throughout the Union. 21 members signed the Convention until 10 October 2013. Cyprus, Croatia, Latvia and Poland signed on 24 September 2014, Malta on 8 October 2014. etc., but is currently waiting to be signed, so far it has been signed by 128 countries around the world and economic integration organisations, and after 50 countries sign it, it is thus requested by the UN that it will be a milestone after which the first conference of all these countries will be held in Geneva from 24 to 29 September 2017. The Convention will therefore be adopted worldwide, and what should be said is that the Council in Europe also adopted the Regulation on anthropogenic emissions and the release of live and live compounds into the air, water and land on 25 April 2017. This Regulation ensures a high level of protection and limits the pollution of live-related activities and procedures. This Regulation provides for measures and conditions at EU level to control and restrict the use and storage of live, live live compounds and mixtures and trade in live products, the production and use of products added live and trade to them, the use of live in dental amalgam and the provision of an appropriate waste-lived holding. In our daily lives, we are the most lacking thermometers alive, which is the fact that the pressureometers on the living will disappear, and I think we will have to adjust our life a little differently, but given its toxicity, it is quite clear that in this direction we had to go. So activities such as mining live, use of living in products and manufacturing processes, traditional gold mining and mining in a small range, because there are always living in these mines, coal burning and waste management can be the source of emissions from drop and dangerous substances and lead to environmental and health risks. Therefore, all aspects related to the use of mercury have been processed in the Minamat Convention and measures are established to prohibit the opening of new and gradual closure of existing mines alive, reduced use of emissions and emissions of live in the context of traditional gold mining and gold mining within a smaller range, restrictions on trade, control and reduced air emissions, etc. So the living is a toxic substance but why do we say the Minimat Convention is purely for your information, so it's a minimal disease? A minimal disease is sometimes called... or a minimal disease is neurological syndrome caused by severe mercury poisoning. So the mercury appears in three forms of elemental mercury, inorganic salts and organic ingredients. Perhaps the most deadly form of living methyl is only 2 to 10% living is absorbed in the intestines, and the eaten elemental mercury is not absorbed at all, but 90% of methyl is absorbed alive. So organic livestock ingredients, especially methyl mercury, are concentrated in the food chain and in fish from polluted waters. Industrial mercury pollution is usually in inorganic form but water vegetation and organisms convert it into methyl mercury. Fish proteins bind more than 90% of the used methyl alive and so firmly that even the best thermal treatment can't remove it. So by poisoning methyl alive known as a minimal disease, and that's why it's called the Minamat Convention, it's one of the most deadly forms of exposure alive. The disease was named according to the Bay of Minamata in Japan where fish contained high levels of methyl living due to pollution from a nearby factory. So the factories that were constantly in this bay threw out substances, among other things alive and locals, ate fish from that bay and began to show classic symptoms, some neurological symptoms in terms of visual disturbances, loss of sensation in arms and legs, loss of hearing, extreme enthusiasm, or this ataxia. Children, already intrauterin children mean newborns were affected, the fruit was already affected by intrauterin. The methyl was also found alive in mother’s milk, and children have been exposed since the baby’s age. So all the residents were exposed from birth to old age and all of them had these neurological disorders at the same time. And what you need to know is that after the absorption of methyl live in the bloodstream it binds to many sulphdral groups and toxicity therefore affects all organic, numerous organic systems. Many structural proteins, membranes, enzymes have been affected, and what's most obvious is that they start actually psychological disturbances, a psychiatric manifestation. And because she's actually lipophilic and passing both the blood's brain and the plaque fetal barrier. So neurologic damage is dysfunctional and all of these individuals were then witnessed very severe damage, which is why it was recognized as one severe disease but ultimately related to mercury poisoning. That's why we need to talk about this disease, we only hear about it in books, we can't do it anymore today and meet it, it was one of the most recent examples, and it was then called this convention. But it is good that the EU is also at the end, but the UN also actually felt that such a single story should be concluded, meaning the signing of this Convention and this law, in fact, ratification in all parliaments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43108	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Ivan Celic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Minamat Convention on Living in an emergency procedure. A declaration on the environment and development of the UN, adopted in Rio de Janeiro in June 2012. The need to adopt a global legal framework on living in order to protect human health and the environment from anthropogenic emissions of live and its compounds into water, soil and air has been established. As a result, the text of the Minamat Convention on Living was created. The reason for the adoption of that regulation at EU level is to achieve full compliance of EU legislation with the Minamat Convention on Living and to allow the EU and Member States to ratify and implement the Convention. After the Convention for the Republic of Croatia enters into force, the Republic of Croatia will pay an annual membership fee of $3.5,000. Food is necessary for the life of each organism because it ensures the intake of things necessary for metabolism. Also in food can be found a whole series of xenobiotics that can negatively affect human health and most frequently are pesticides, metals, furans, dioxins and radioactive elements. High attention is paid to food contamination during production, transport and storage while rarely taking into account the factors to which food is subjected before entering the production chain as well as the toxins previously contacted. The living is a chemical element belonging to heavy metals and is the only metal found at room temperature in liquid condition. It is widely spread in the environment and mercury poisoning is called mercurialism. Alive poisoning has already been mentioned, reported in Japan in the Bays of Minaman and Niigata. Thus, between 1932 and 1969, 27 tonnes of mercury used as a catalyst in the production of acetaldehild was released in that bay. The poisoning occurred as a result of the consumption of fish that contained high concentrations of methylated mercury and the disease was obtained as previously referred to as a minimal disease. In the area of the Republic of Croatia, pollution was reported with an increased concentration of live in the Gulf of Kastelan due to the direct release of wastewater from the former factory Juguinil where the elemental mercury was used as cathode in the electrolysis for the production of lye and chlorine. It has been in front of the factory for decades when wastewater was released with the elemental mercury and traces of living can still be found in that area especially in the marine sediment, which is a kind of container of each contaminant that accumulates itself until re-release into the water column and then enters the organisms. Although it was one of the biggest pollutions of the sea on our coast, it was fortunate that people did not consume a lot of fish and shellfish from this area, and that in the Gulf of Kastelan it was essential rather than methylated alive than in Japan. Due to bioaccumulation and biomagnification, the highest concentrations of living in marine organisms can be recorded in predators such as tuna, saber, sharks, whales. The fish is undoubtedly a high-quality and useful food that needs to be used in the diet, however, when selecting species and fish, care should be taken about the possibility of intoxication with methylated mercury. In particular, care should be taken in pregnant women's diet due to marked toxicity to the foetal nervous system and it is recommended to select a small fish of the type of anchovies and an ardent in the feeding of pregnant women. Because of the awareness that a living chemical that causes global concern over its far-reaching atmospheric transmission of its stability in the environment after an anthropogenic has been introduced, its bioaccumulation capabilities in eco-systems and its significant negative effects on human health and the environment, an international activity for living management has been launched in an effective and coherent way. The Convention also speaks of traditional gold mining and processing, given that amalgans live for the extraction of gold from ore, the ultimate objective of this Convention is to abolish the use of live and live compounds in mining and processing of gold as well as the emissions of dropping live into the environment. The convention also discusses controlling and reducing emissions of live and live compounds, often referred to as the total living in the atmosphere, and then the release of live or live compounds on earth that go into water. It is necessary to establish the existing situation, so it is necessary to draw up a strategy to identify and assess sites polluted with live or live compounds. The Convention shall include the provision of publicly available information on the effects of live and live compounds on health and the environment as well as on alternatives to living and living compounds. In addition, it is important to develop and implement strategies and programmes for the identification of populations in danger and their protection, to provide scientific and health guidance on exposure to live and live compounds and to consult with the World Health Organisation, the International Labour Organisation and other relevant intergovernmental organisations. Article 4 does not allow any more production, import or export of products to which it is added alive, including certain batteries, clutches and relays, then compact and linear fluorescent light bulbs, high pressure livestock bulbs, some cosmetic products such as soaps, and skin bleaching creams, barometers, hygrometers, but mentioned pressureometers and thermometers. The date after which production, import or export of these products is not permitted is 2020. It will therefore support the HDZ Representatives' Club, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Minamat Convention on Living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43110	Okay, on behalf of the SDP club, Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43111	... Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] My colleagues before me had very detailed and very professionally talked about the problem of living and the importance of adopting this Law on the adoption of the Minamatic Convention, but some things because of their pragmaticity, strikingness, are good to repeat several times. So, the Minamatic Convention on Living Name owes Minamata to the syndrome, or the Minamata disease that owes its name to the ecological disaster that took place in the area of Minamata in Japan, where in 1956 acetyl aldehid was released from a nearby plant in that marine bay, suffered almost, actually by official data from 1,000 people, and by unofficial estimates of the consumption of fish from that bay, more than 10 thousand people suffered from the consumption of infected fish with inorganic mercury. The Minimatic Convention on Living was therefore created as a result of joint coordination and agreement between the UN Member States and the content of the Convention itself was agreed in Kumamot, Japan, on 10 October 2013. EU Member States, 26 of them, signed the Convention by October 2014, including the Republic of Croatia, which signed the Convention on 24 September 2014, the two missing countries of which the 26 did not sign were Estonia and Portugal, but they pledged to ratify this Convention. The Minimatic Convention on Living therefore regulates the protection of human health and the environment of anthropogenic emissions of mercury and its compounds into water and soil and air, which is extremely important since the living chemical that represents a global problem, and the global problem is primarily for this reason because the possibility of spreading lives at a large distance is very simple, with water and air, therefore to atmospheres. And once live by one human influence, drop, drive or so into the environment, it is very persistent, and has the ability to bioaccumulate in ecosystems, which means that it is deposited in living organisms primarily in aquatic, marine, has an extremely negative effect on human health and the environment. For example, it is important to say that there is no mechanical way, there is no thermal way, there is no culinary way that you or some other edible marine organism can make it edible, and very small amounts are enough for developmental effects on human health. Therefore, Croatia as a maritime country, as a tourist country, but as a country rich in water resources, should be extremely interested in accepting ratification, but above all in the application of this Convention. As a member of the EU since 01 July 2013, the Republic of Croatia has applied EU regulations relating to registration, evaluation, authorisation, and the restriction of chemicals, etc. Reach regulations of that chemical set relating to mercury and applicable from 10 April 2014. It is prescribed that from that date, from that date, barometers, hygrometers, thermometers and other instruments containing mercury and intended for industrial and professional purposes shall not be placed on the market. The Directive also notes that live-added products, if there is a sustainable alternative or technology, should be phased out as quickly as possible and as gradually as possible with the ultimate objective of ending all live-added products. Taking into account technical and economic circumstances, the need for scientific research and development. This last part of the sentence, therefore, taking into account technical and economic circumstances or needs, gives priority to the authorities of the state administration responsible for health, environmental protection, the water economy, agriculture and the economy, to be both pragmatic and objective and realistic so that we do not impose on ourselves obligations that we are neither obliged nor able to implement because we often love to agree on either the European Commission or some import lobbys. And we're actually using that position to make ourselves look bigger to Catholics than the Pope himself. But when we talk about the protection of Croatian economic interests, i.e. the general interest here, first of all, I think of the Croatian State Hydrometeorological Institute, which systematically and with long tradition, monitors, studies and issues of climate-related warnings and weather changes both at sea and on land, and as such has instruments, i.e. systems that contain a certain part of living. Decisions which would be ad hoc which would not take into account the complexity and specificity of individual systems using those instruments could lead to problems in the area of weather monitoring and climate, and could endanger the safety of traffic, people and property. It is similar, therefore, with the living being used in lighting bodies. A huge number of our units of local self-government are using livestock lighting bodies. The funds that allow us to replace these lighting bodies for new ice lighting or competitions are late or there is not enough money. Therefore, I am also afraid, therefore, that we will not be able to honour those dates, those border guards in that convention, which tell us that it is necessary to replace all those instruments that use alive until that specific date. I therefore appeal, therefore, to the state institutions to take that part into account. But of course the SDP club will accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43112	Thank you, too. And in the end, we are now moving on to individual debates. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'll be brief since my colleagues and colleagues have said quite enough about this convention. I got the inspiration to report by reading the convention and sticking to that motto thinking globally, act locally. In fact, what is very important for this convention concerns education. Articles 18 and 19 also state that information, awareness raising and public education are important. In this case, on the effects of live, animal compounds on health and the environment, alternatives to living and live compounds or to education, training and public awareness of the effects of exposure to human and animal health and the environment in cooperation with relevant intergovernmental, non-governmental organisations and vulnerable groups to the needs of the population. And Article 19 of the Research, Development and Monitoring where, among other things, particular monitoring of modelling and geographically representative monitoring of the levels of live, live compounds in... a population group, and in the environment including biological groups such as fish, sea mammals, sea turtles, birds, as well as cooperation in the collection and exchange of relevant appropriate samples. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why am I saying all this? Of course, we can't scare people from eating blue fish, for example, because the allowed amount of methyl alive weekly is 1.3 micrograms per kilogram of body weight, which means that one man of 100 kg should be allowed to enter into his body 130 micrograms of methyl alive. And for example, if we look at what it looks like in the world in Germany, the daily intake is 5 micrograms and 80 micro grams in Japan. So feeding on our blue fish is certainly not dangerous and should be encouraged. This just along the way. Why did I say all this? So here we witnessed several breaks recently related to arsenic. So arsenic is also heavy metal. And unfortunately, everything we're going to apply when it comes to this Live Convention doesn't say that we have to work for the arsenic for example. I therefore appeal to the Ministry of Health to do just that for other metals and metaloids for which we do not have a convention, and we have continuous poisoning of people living in Slavonia due to an increased amount of arsenic in the plumbing that can lead to extremely severe damage. Therefore, anything applicable to the Minamato Convention for Information, Education, Monitoring, Live Research should be applied in this case, for example, to arsenic, and it did not seem all these years. So I considered this intervention important precisely to protect the health of citizens living in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43114	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Željko Plazonić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, let me look back at arsenic. We at the Ministry or our Sanitary Inspectorate regularly control all those waters that may be suspicious of the increased amount of arsenic in them, which is especially in some places of Slavonia, so we have that information and we know exactly what the situation is with these drinking waters. As far as living is concerned, obviously, I thank everyone who discussed the name of the clubs and individually. However, I would like to know some things like this, given that the clinical picture is and the prevalence of living in a human organism is pretty much done here, given the specialities that our fellow representatives have. I would stress the fact that apart from neurological symptoms and diseases as the most visible and clinically most representative, it is most easily diagnosed. It also damages both the lungs and the kidneys and the immune system alive. That's one side. The other side, which is very, very important, and why this Convention of Minamatic is necessary at all. The Minamatic Convention was based on one incident. However, the fact is that about 80% of the living are practically created by human activity by burning fossil fuels. And that's the problem, because those fuels, when they come into the atmosphere, can make thousands and thousands of kilometers, and they can pollute areas that have nothing to do with the place of origin, or the passing of these products into the atmosphere. That's why it's a global convention that acts exactly globally, and we need to think about it. Only those 20Z5 are practically a percentage that is related to or related to incidents. Most often, with factories that produce various forms of plastic which, fortunately, we have less and less. Therefore, there is no fear of pollution or poisoning us if we consume either our Adriatic fish, our blue fish, our Adriatic tuna, etc. etc. The biggest problem is fossil fuel emissions, mainly some forms of coal. And we need to know that, because we know that in some third countries this type of fuel is used exclusively in their industry, and that would actually be all. I hope that you will support us as Croatia as signatories of this Convention, because then some things will solve our relationship to the living, as one of the very neurotoxic and otherwise toxic metals for the human organism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43116	We have one replica, Mr. Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I have one question, namely 2, 3 years ago, along the road Zagreb-Varaždin, one quantity was found alive. So he unwittingly left her in a parking lot. Now I'm wondering if there's anywhere, a dump arranged to accept the delayed and rejected alive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43118	This question should be addressed to some other ministries, not to us in the Ministry of Health, but I deeply believe that there is some sort of organized collection of toxic metals, including mercury. Otherwise, it wouldn't be good if we didn't have it, and that way we couldn't control and destroy alive as such a toxic element. I believe, but that should be asked by the Ministry of the Environment, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43119	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43120	Final draft law confirming the Minamat Convention on Living, Emergency Procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 150, the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Minamata Convention on Living. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 127 votes to pass the Law on Confirmation of the Minamat Convention on Living.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43121	The following is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 152 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to all MPs and MPs. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Health and Social Policy and Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Does Mr. Zeljko Plazonić, State Secretary, want to take a word on behalf of the promoter? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given this picture I saw on the monitor, I must say at least two sentences in the introduction. Therefore, this law harmonizes our national legislation, with EU regulations, in such a way as to prescribe a legal basis for the possible restriction or ban on GMO cultivation, in part or in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. The legislative proposal lays down a legal basis, for the purposes of authorising laboratories for testing, control and monitoring of GMOs, products consisting of, containing or originating from GMOs, official laboratories for GMOs, reference laboratories for GMOs and national reference laboratory for GMOs. The legislative proposal revises the provisions on jurisdiction in the implementation of administrative professional and inspection controls on the implementation of measures to restrict or prohibit GMO cultivation in part or in the whole of the national area, and controls on the management of waste generated by GMOs. Since the legislative proposal to national legislation will only transpose certain key provisions of Council of Europe Directive 2015/412, the way in which applications for the exemption of parts of the geographical area or of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia from cultivation of GMOs during the procedure for the approval of certain GMOs, or during the renewal, approval or approval of the target or part of the state budget will be made more detailed by the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the proposal of the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for agricultural affairs. The legislative proposal shall develop infringement provisions relating to the unauthorised introduction of GMOs for the purposes other than placing on the market or for the purpose of illicit cultivation of GMOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43123	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. First Mr. Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43124	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr Plazonić, I am surprised that you have no shame in bringing one such law into the Croatian Parliament and doing fools to the entire Croatian people, who is 90% against GMOs, and you are here now, like, some bureaucrat, without any logic, you are passing a law, a bill of law before us that you are thinking of introducing into the Croatian GMOs. And please tell me nicely, are you and those who sent you here so uninformed about the wishes and intentions of the Croatian people or are you simply bad people? I don't know where do you even get this law here? Where do you get the right to pass a law that says that GMOs can be introduced in Croatia on a limited or deliberate basis? Are you even aware of the consequences of this law? This law here is not allowed to appear at all, let alone discuss it. Have you ever been informed of the effects of GMOs, what are the consequences of the world, what is Monsanto, what were the consequences of India, Vietnam, Brazil, if you are reading the newspaper, if you are listening to the voice of the people, are you talking to any expert, farmers? This law, which you have passed, I will prove it to you during the debate, not only is it contrary to the interests of the Croatian people, contrary to its will, it is against the Constitution. Tell me, what do you personally think of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43125	Thank you very much, Mr. Bunjac... two minutes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Answer. Would you like to respond immediately? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43126	I'd better answer right now, 'cause I'm not sure I'm gonna remember everything I've heard from my fellow MP. First of all, I have to say that I'm not used to talking here on a personal level, but only in the context of what I've read in this promotion. I'm deeply convinced that you didn't listen well because if you listened well then you wouldn't say this all you said, and whether you're going to teach me what it is, I think it might be the other way around, given that I know very, very much about GMOs, and I don't care what you've tried to impose it on me in some way or the Ministry of Health as such. So I would pray if we could talk about the law as such, not about some personal relationship between you and me and who put me here and who brought me here and whether I'm talking about the interests of these, those or against constitutional measures. I think we're talking about the law as such will be much better because that's what we do in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43127	Thank you very much. The second replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43128	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Secretary of State. So here's what I want to ask you three questions since I've been asked by the citizens to take advantage of this debate, and perhaps we should make it a little easier for the atmosphere currently present in the assembly. So these are the next three questions very simple. According to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, is there any food available on the Croatian GMO shelves, if any? How often do sanitary and other inspections take place? The second question is, how do you react to the fact that the shelves can find food that has a GMO-free food label, import food and thus actually create unfair competition for Croatia's GMO-free food since we have not yet solved this document and lead citizens astray? And third, most important question, is this directive and the law that we are making this directive in any way jeopardising the position of both this Croatian Parliament and the Committee on Health and Agriculture, which has decided in the past term that Croatia will be a GMO free country throughout its territory? It may facilitate the following discussions to answer these three questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43129	Do you want to answer now? Now, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43130	As regards GMOs free food on our shelves for this is practically the Ministry of Agriculture, however, I know that the Ministry of Agriculture and we regularly check all green preparations and generally food on the content of GMOs and so far we have no indication that some feed GMO ingredients. If I should be able to talk about what many of our counties have brought as their position, their relationship, their rule, will be GMO free or will not be GMO free it is practically solved and it is known exactly what our views are. I repeat, only one part of the law that needs to be regulated and brought into line with European directives, and they give us the right and freedom to decide whether or not we, as an independent Republic, make our decision. So nobody forces us to do anything, we can pass a law on GMO free country, but this law allows us in Europe a legal procedure that will then be accepted in Europe that Croatia is a GMO free country or a free country. That's the whole point of it together. So harmonising our law with the European Directive allows us to legally implement our decision. And what our decision will be is up to us alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43131	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First came Mr. Miro Bulj Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary with assistants, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about a very serious theme of GMOs. The fact is that this law is a directive as said by the EU secretary and by harmonising with EU laws, which is unacceptable for us from the Most, is that in the EU they are also trying to push through GMOs, and this is visible from this parliamentarian, who himself said that Croatia has been restrained in voting on GMOs, in fact, we are opposed, and in essence it has been abstentioned in the adoption of these rules in the EU. With this fact, we know that it was in January, that at the end of March this year the EU put forward a proposal to enable the authorisation of two GMOs of corn and... an existing Monsant seed for further cultivation in the EU. The fact that the Croatian people are against it, the fact that they need to talk more seriously about this topic. Is it already mainly Monsanto who wants to take over the entire seed production of seeds and food under its control that is GMO. Before the Croatian state should protect its seeds, however, it is obvious that it is not, but under EU directives, we are also forced to rely on this unhealthy food that is genetically modified and we did not actually protect our shifts, in time, that our grandmothers are not allowed to plant their seeds in their gardens, but only Monsanto seeds that are of particular interest to America, under cover to create food to be food to produce food for all Africa and hunger that is the American president in 2003 to solve the problem of hunger in third countries in countries that do not have enough food. It's basically just a cover to take over the whole seed control, meaning control over life and death, and we know what a seed is. Seeds are rich, seeds are what we need to protect, meaning our domestic products, and not act this way like you are now with this proposal. And you're still stressing instead of opposing or at least getting the ability to vote, or the people getting the ability to vote, we're going to say by one regulation, not by this bill of law, but by the government and the ministry will decide on this, this proposal and how it will be implemented. Once again, this topic needs a much more serious debate, a much wider debate, and this is what the people need to decide on. This is about the possibility of jeopardizing the health of the people of our production, our dependence on the seed produced by GMOs, which means that it is modified and that Monsanto wants to impose on us. Once again, I would say that everything that is happening, and just before, my colleagues were asking a question and during the period, we remember Gunja herself and the events surrounding the flood of that area, even if food was donated, that is. Monsanto seeds for these areas. I remember these stories, whether it's controlled, whether it's true, whether Monsanto already has the effect of deliberately destroying our seeds through his lobbyists and through the EU, of course, and what we do to protect our indigenous seed and whether we are contaminated by GMO seeds, i.e. already in our fields whether GMO products have arrived and whether we eat that food and we know that in Europe it is already more and more and more on the shelves of many shops. For this reason, once again, we object in this way to this law to be passed under the EU directive, to have, with one duplicitous argument that you have provided that this is exclusively an EU directive that you will transpose into the regulation and we parliamentary representatives here are the only ones who will raise their hand. Once again, we need to protect our seed, our healthy food, protect against meanings and imports, and mainly from production and in the smallest part of the Republic of Croatia, what you're saying on the part, or on the whole territory, and on the smallest part of the production of genetically modified food. There, so the MOST Club opposes in this way in general that this directive is being passed before parliamentary representatives and that it is not much more serious about this huge, huge problem that can destroy both our agriculture and the health of all people in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43133	Thank you, Mr. Bull. And we have two replicas, the first is Mr. Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43134	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, I really appreciate your exposure and your club's particular position that you won't support the adoption of this law. I see you are familiar with the main company that imports GMO technology into Croatia, which is Monsanto. Unfortunately, she's not the only one with a license, there's another BASF Pioneer and BASF. They're companies that are criminal companies, let's just say it's open. Monsanto is the company that invented "Agent Orange" in the Vietnam War for the destruction of the forest where today, due to the use of this battle hatch, abnormalities like the world has not seen, I don't know that frogs with 5 heads and such horrors are born, right now. It's the most carcinogenic compound on the globe of the Earth. Monsanto manufacturer of the battle hatch, e.g. The white phosphorus still used today on many battlefields around the world. Monsanto, who only killed 300,000 farmers in India. 300 thousand farmers in India committed suicide after signing a death contract with Monant because the only way to get out of that contract was to commit suicide, the other way wasn't. And now this Monsanto, Mr. Big Expert, brings us here to Parliament. And I'd like to ask you on that occasion, Mr. Bull, you have one shot. Who is Monsanta's chief associate in the Republic of Croatia? Just one shot at that. If your answer is Ivica Todoric, you guessed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43135	Thank you, too. Did you get that? All right, you've reached out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, Monsanto wants to master the world in a way that is obvious how you described not only war poison, but this is a huge danger if we are going to say for the Republic of Croatia, our country, our peasant, for the common man, because he will be forbidden without the control of Monsanto or his officers, the ones that you are counting in fact that our domestic seed is being used at all. We should have a strategy to preserve our seed, i.e. The bank of our seed what, of course, all the countries that are strong they want to do. But Monsantu is interested in taking over 100% means with this polluted sick seed that is unhealthy, which is modified both for food and food for human beings, wants to take control of all countries essentially, on food production, if it controls food and water essentially controls everything. Therefore, of course, both Todorovic and the others who are... Of course it's one co-operation of these stakeholders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Monsanto further from Croatia, it should be banned and preserved by our traditional production, our people who deal with production and that seed preserve it, modify it, not GMOs but advanced technologies biologically but we also have an expert enough to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43137	Another replica, Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43138	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I would like to ask you if we have been eating GMO food for a long time in the Croatian state and in the world? I know that we here in the Parliament can spread populism and speak we won't but it will be the way it will be. I would like to have the most prominent experts in Croatia discuss the subject, so that I can actually understand what it is and what it looks like. As far as I know, the world probably today as many of us as there are in this world wouldn't have survived if it wasn't for one food, because the world as we know it is increasing, the population of the world every year more and more. I personally am against GMO food and I would like it not to come to our shelves, and I would like it not to be in our country of Croatia, we have a healthy ground and I am warning and I am saying that our citizens should use our products, not American, not German, not West, therefore we are a people who have their own consciousness, who should take care of what we buy, what we eat and what will be on our shelves. I hope that the less we introduce such food, and yet it depends on our citizens to buy and whether they want to accept those apples, the grapes we see already on our shelves, the same thing we simply can't believe when we look at our own eyes that it can look like that. Therefore, let us give up such products and we will immediately know that we will live well and healthy, buy Croatian products, and I am against definitely GMO food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43139	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43140	Col. Misic, probably here's a colleague Jovanovic just asked the same question, is it contaminated, is it on our shelves and whether our fields are contaminated, i.e. our products that are in agriculture are contaminated. They probably are. But we don't have that information, but about this decision in this way, we're talking like the secretary just presented, that they're going through the directive and that they're going to pass it on to the regulation, through some clerk to whom they're going to bring the regulation on this, it's unserious. The fact is, it's 2003. George Bush, then presidents of the United States, said he would try to overcome hunger in Africa in this way, but it was only a fog to take over all that seed in the world and to control what he had just said to his colleague Bunjac, to control not only the peasants in America, in Africa, but India, too, where people were brought to the brink of destruction. Therefore, this needs to be discussed seriously, this is modified food, but in Croatia, we are obviously not talking about it, but it comes here with almost some kind of directive, from some European officials, and here our secretary, gives us parliamentary representatives to vote for it or against it. I said that the MOST Club's position would be against discussing genetically modified food in this way, GMOs, therefore, we must protect our seeds, our crops from contamination, have seed banks, as other countries do, which keep to themselves, and not have contaminated food of GMO products that essentially harm people and animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43141	Thank you very much. In front of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA", Mr Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43142	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me start this debate with a quote, a publicist... "The spread of genetically modified crops and food around the world has caught so much momentum today that it can be declared a crime against humanity." I really must repeat my claim and I see that the debate goes in this direction, that those who bring these laws into this high House, and those who debate it, are actually not only completely unconscious, which means this law, but unfortunately, and are completely uninformed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we have heard from Mr. Secretary of State that there is no indication that GMO food would be used in Croatia, and here you Google a little bit, you have these Androids mobiles, Croatian control, Croatian Food Control Agency, 12% food is already GMOs, 8% of crops are GMOs, and more than 80% of your livestock is GMOs. What do we even need to talk about next, have a clue or no indication? Take a look at the shelves of Croatian shops as said by Agent Jovanovic, why it says on some food, or on some cosmetic product of free GMOs, and the other one does not say. For what? All these brands, 2, 3 hundred brands sold in Croatia, whether it's food, whether it's a drink, whether it's cosmetics, detergents, it's all GMO itself, import GMOs, of course, above all. So, specifically, what is a GMO? GMO is therefore a genetic engineering that represents a horizontal transmission of genes between two different species. Such a transfer of nature's genes does not accept. Because in order for nature to accept such a transmission, it would create freaks, and nature would not create freaks, but destroy them. And thanks to that, the world exists. So nature has its own, model, we're going to say our own spirit, soul, with which it protects the set of nature on the globe of the Earth to survive. These genetic engineers will not believe, transferring the fish genes into corn and vice versa, the animal into humans, their genes, human in plants, plants trying to upgrade, create modern Frankensteins, and they think it's for the good of humanity. And what they're doing is chaos, it's death. It's against all civilization and human values, because it's known, I believe you're so familiar with these great experts that everything in nature is being created gradually. A man's been born for millions of years. Living beings for hundreds of millions of years. It can't be created by an experiment that lasts five minutes. And now, if GMOs come out quickly, so do these governments of ours, try to quickly legalize everything that comes about GMOs. If GMOs occur quickly, so do these governments of ours to quickly legalize all this coming about GMOs. I would really like to ask if this 2015 directive allows European countries to be absolutely free and if all Croatian counties are, all 20 Croatian counties have been declared GMO free by what we are talking about now. What do we have further to talk about? You have the will of the Croatian people loud and clear. All 20 counties are against it, and you are bringing in Article 7 of this amendment to the law. ‘cross-border transport restricted use’ means the following sentence ‘intentional introduction into the environment, deliberate introduction into the environment and placing on the market GMO products containing or consisting of or originating from GMOs is prescribed by this law and specific regulations’. So the entire Croatian public would dare say 99% of Croatian citizens are against, all counties are against it. The European Directive offers to free ourselves, and you are going with intentional introduction into the environment. Is that the knowledge you want to teach me or your employer? Mr. Misic says GMOs give more food. It's incorrect. It doesn't feed anymore. GMO gives 7% less crop. GMO uses five times as many herbicides as conventional agriculture, not ecological, conventional agriculture. GMOs make 12% less profit with inconspicuous consequences for human health and depopulations of the village. Ask Mr. Kisic, one of the biggest agriculture experts in Croatia, here's a chance to ask him since you don't want to talk to me, is that irrelevant. So ask him, he was in the U.S., driving what's-his-name. A 1600-mile-long corn belt in the United States. And you know what he said? After 1,400 miles on my car, there wasn't one insect. Zero. No butterflies, no mosquitoes, no flies, no other bugs. The car was clean as if he had washed it a little while ago. So imagine the horror of this GMO and what consequences it leaves on nature, and consequently I say once again to human health itself. In Canada, GMO fields killed almost all the bees. No more, no more butterflies, no more birds landing in the fields. The soil microorganisms are completely destroyed. In a teaspoon, healthy clean soil has more micro-organisms than humans on the globe. You and your GMOs kill every last one of them, turn the country into a dead land. In a square metre of land live grizzlies, live nematodes, live different species like snails, such as insects, worms, centipede. It's all dying of GMOs. And then we're wondering why all these diseases are getting massively dilated. I don't know, I went to this Committee on Health and the Committee on Agriculture Cells, Asthma, Allergy, Car Immunity, Parkinson, Alzheimer's, Crohn's disease, Diseases that the Croatian people didn't know. We're the sixth in the world I'm going to repeat 10 times, the sixth in the world after dying of cancer, and we don't have a national strategy for dying of cancer. We don't have that, but we have this right here. Here's what we got. Here's what's gonna cure us from cancer. And every one of you who sits here knows someone who has cancer or died of cancer, and often these are members of our families. And instead of this government doing something, and you know what Minister Kujundzic said on the Health Committee when I asked him what caused these diseases. Do you know what Minister Kujundzic said? He answered me with one word: food. Those are his words. And who he was heard. The answer is here. And what's he doing? Intentional introduction into the environment, that's the answer. We'll bring Monsanto. ... And Pioneer, that's exactly what the Croatian people need right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Very big help. And Monsantically, among other things, I don't know if you've read the interview that their boss gave for Croatia, he said we'll come to you gradually. We'll take 35% of your agricultural land. We have a very strong influence among politicians and we will make sure that all the councils, among other things, and I assume that the secretariat are entered by people who are pro-GMO-oriented. Take Wikileaks, you heard about Mr. Assang, look what he caught... from the US Embassy in Zagreb and see what it says there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2004, the US Embassy exerted strong pressure on the Croatian government and all ministries to allow the use of GMOs. That's not what I said. You have the documents. Look. Not only that, but I also have this quote, the American ambassador to Paris, Stapleton, by also caught... he said openly this: "A state that will not introduce GMOs, we will declare a trade war to it." The trade war, if we do not introduce and now whether we introduce or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, if we're cowards, listeners will, and we'll spend it all. But if we follow the interests of the Croatian people, that wish of his, then of course we won't. This law, among other things, states in its Article 55 that the existence of GMOs and organic agriculture is possible. Now tell me, another question, if all the counties in Croatia are against GMOs in what kind of co-existence can we even theoretically talk about? And the second question I ask the great experts, how far can the bees take the pollen? And you really think it's enough to have one of these per square foot, two or four feet, so that GMO seeds don't spread to all the surrounding fields? And if we think about it a little bit, we will know that the moment when GMO fields are introduced in Croatia, and already they are already in place, all organic agriculture and other agriculture will be completely destroyed over time. So article 55 is sorry for the expression, he's talking nonsense. It's impossible, it doesn't exist. We're being brought here by some myth, which is actually meant to, in fact, go on hand to corporations like Monsan. And of course everything that follows, and that is, their herbicides, their pesticides... that's called the cidocor, did you see what kind of cidocor is used when it passes? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The earth is as red as on Mars, nothing exists alive or dead anymore, it clearly says on this cidocoro, that it causes terrible diseases, that you must dress up in armor, put a scalpel on your head, that it causes terrible eye burns, severe respiratory diseases, and that Monsanto gives us to sell in Croatia. And experts like this, very good, they say, "Come on, Bunjac, shut up, you have no idea I'm teaching you." Although this same Bunjac, he accidentally organised a round table on GMOs, which was attended by all leading Croatian agricultural experts, professors, doctors and loudly said that Croatia must not introduce GMOs at any cost. Because GMOs, among other things, lead to terrible diseases, resulting in liver damage, kidney damage, reduces antibiotic resistance, destroys the central nervous system, destroys the bones, leads to abortion, leads to infertility. 20% of couples in Croatia today are infertile, ask veterinarians if infertility has recently increased or decreased, whether it is possible to intervene in nature in this way. Let's say by crossing horses and mares get mules and mules what? Infertile. Thank you for listening to me. And now I'm going to say in [[Intruder: Thank you very much you have 3 replicas.]] an individual debate and a closing word. [[Intruder: You have 3 replicas, so you will be able to continue.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43143	Mr. Miro Bulj, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43144	Comrade Bunjac, in your comprehensive debate, you essentially hit the core, when you said to bring before us something that has already been decided to vote and discuss we will not discuss what has already been done. To be us means what the directive has ordered, to be brought to us, here as we must accept it. We're going to mask it with some kind of regulation and the fact is what you said, if it's and it's probably Monsanto products, here it's seeds planted, that bees, you can't say don't land on that flower or not land. The fact is that if it appears in any part of Monsat products or GMO products which are crops that have planted by force of nature, wind, bee, bee or someone will pass it on and it will simply be contaminated by our entire agriculture and that should be said no. And not in this way, there I agree with you, that it's getting through, one producer, i.e. more manufacturers... Monsantic who wants to be, which has already taken over most of the food production and should say no or yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian people don't ask. Here we come with a directive, so we can't solve one basic problem around the border, about the agreement, and everyone is calling for a Yunker, a friend, our diameter, to Tuska, but the only thing that comes in front of the parliamentary representatives, experts, like you said, who tell us those directives, which are against the interests of the people and, in fact, products that sow the death of Croatian society and the Croatian people are not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43145	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Mr. Bunjac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43146	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bull. So I repeat again, if you've ever been able to read... Look, in 2004 it was decided that this law would come to the Croatian Parliament in 2017 it was done in a wise way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, these councils that are responsible for GMOs, we have a country without GMOs four councils for GMOs, and we don't have GMOs taken from you from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and do you know the intelligence that the ministries have transferred from these councils? They're transferred you won't believe in the Ministry of Culture. And then the Ministry of Culture solves your issues in agriculture, so let's say that the Ministry of Agriculture chooses films for the Pula Film Festival, it chooses those people for you, and these people put you exclusively who are pro GMOs so you're strictly careful not to accidentally come by some expert who isn't for it. Of course, all these people are in contact with these companies, they get scholarships and what other benefits, and then they give you a recommendation to the government to mass-import GMO feed through Luke Kopar and, more importantly, that the law is worth retroactively, which means that all those who have smuggled GMOs in the meantime are apportioned. The final goal of the corporation is to completely take away the decision on GMOs from the Croatian Parliament and move to those councils under whose recommendations the Government will then adopt regulations. Mr. Bull, this may be the last time you and I have a chance to discuss this at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marin Schibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43148	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's Mr. Bunjac, Henry Kissinger once said, "Who controls food, controls people." In fact, what do we have today in this 21st century, the century of the globalisation of corporations? We have a centralization of power, both in terms of food supply and in terms of finance and capital, and in terms of political power itself. Food is very important, and you can see that progress. The rising tendency of cancers, diseases, not healthy society, but who's to blame? It's not just politicians, it's a good part of responsibility, it's the wrong media, it's the wrong intellectual community, it's all the factors in society that don't actually educate people, it's not informing people, and capital has taken that role of propaganda and drowning, and there's no moral responsibility to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43149	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43150	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Schibol. Of course it's enough to think a little bit, a little bit of an analysis of things, a little look at the data of the Statistics Institute and see that Slavonia as a country with the most processing surface in the Republic of Croatia is systematically failing. We could say that it is a matter of constant case games, but it is quite clear that there is also intention. Let's not forget that last year, we were installed here as prime minister a lobbyist of corporations whose first assignments were to find 10,000 acres in Slavonia for Monsant's fields, or to sell the same Slavonic fields to Canadians, is he, by chance, Canadian oil corporations. If Croatia loses its agriculture, and we have 35 thousand kilometres of arable land, if we lose our agriculture, we are in fact losing that main resource based on which Croatia even existed in history. Recently, a hundred years ago, tourism also appeared and it turns out that we will still have some kind of economic branch of tourism left on very flimsy feet from which we will be able to live. I'm talking about very flimsy legs because you never know if you're going to be interesting to foreign guests or not because of this or that disturbance on the market. So we must not give up, you are right to our food, we must not give up Slavonia, we must insist that Croatia protect domestic production, that it produces healthy food and I am sure that in this way, not only demographically preserve our villages, we not only have enough food for all of Croatia but we will also develop a very large export potential. So, let's vote for Croatian, not corporate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43151	Thank you, too. The third replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43152	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Bunjac, I am not advocacy of any conspiracy theories. I was also a member of the government of Zoran Milanovic when we also said as a government that we advocated Croatia being a GMO free and the Agriculture Committee mentioned by the Croatian Parliament made those conclusions. And I don't like the hard words in the assembly, so I initially asked the secretary of state to tell us about the debate that will run and for the sake of the public who is watching us, whether anything changes for Croatia with this directive and this legislative proposal that goes because as far as I'm concerned, I'm not defending the Secretary of State now and I'm not a GMO advocate, as far as I understand this directive actually strengthens the freedom of every country to make a decision in accordance with the decision that citizens in that country have. Therefore, it gives Croatia completely free hands to continue to be GMO free. And I'd like you to convince all of us if that's not the case, and I'd like the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Health to meet again between the two readings and bring in experts both. So we've heard here today your attitudes which are the attitudes of people who are completely against GMO technology. I don't think it's such a black-and-white picture and there are experts who are going to say the exact opposite of what you said. I'm a doctor and I follow, too, especially my area of food. So it's not true what you said, it's not true. There is no scientific evidence that GMO food has led to an increase in the disease, there is no such thing. And that's true, that's the only truth. So we stick to scientific facts. What you were saying, that's what people who support anti-GMO electricity say, again others who support GMO electricity say none of that is true. And I appeal you bring us a scientific article published in the world to a relevant magazine that says that GMO food causes cancers and reduces life span. There are no regrets.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43153	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Bunjac's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43154	Thank you very much, Reverend Jovanovic. And of course you're on the trail of that opposition that's always in important matters on the side of HDZ. We saw that on Friday when you raised your hand for CETA, we saw when you raised your hand to send the Croatian Army to Russia, we saw you raise your hands for the Law on concessions in first reading and in all other important things whenever HDZ and SDP vote the same. You, of course, say no, no, we're not the same, we're for another Tito, but if that Tito got up from your grave, I'm not quite sure how would you that advocate sending Croatian soldiers to the Russian border. Therefore, your claims that I was wrong, you prove me because I organized a scientific event with top experts, you have all the relevant information about him where they spoke, wrote articles. Please be informed, for example. about the study of Seralini in France about which a longstanding court dispute has been conducted and where, unlike the Croatian judiciary, the right decision has been made and the study of Seralini is therefore absolutely correct and correct. According to that study, 93% of mice who were fed GMO food in the second year of life received a tumour. You've got photos, too, so take a look. I'm sorry you're standing on the sidelines of corporations and people who are essentially working to enslave this country, but I repeat, it's in line with your alleged opposition, opposition action.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43155	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43156	Article 238 untrue and disdainful of the statement of colleagues of Bunjca. So I've spoken to him very correctly, he insults me here, it's false, he mentions that I'm a representative of some corporations which is absolutely untrue and I'm asking you not to speak in that way, by actually reducing the persuasion of your performance. And the study you mentioned was a fake study and was withdrawn from the magazine in which it was published. Therefore, do not speak falsely.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43157	Thank you very much. And let's move on to the second club of representatives Mr. Josip Križanić, club of HDZ representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43158	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have heard many things today, that we are all absolutely for the whole of Croatia to be GMO free. Personally, I'm a proponent of the same thing, but I'm still going to be a little metricated, unlike my predecessors. So before us is the proposal for a law in amendments to the GMO Act, which is in line with the new acquis of the EU and sets out the legal, official and inspection aspect of the business with GMOs. The GMO was also discussed in previous meetings by the Assembly within the framework of the home working body of the Health Committee, and the Committee on Agriculture, the Environment Protection Committee, for reasons of the impact of the provisions of this GMO law on prescribed competences. Before the debate on the draft law, I would refer to the opinion that, in the framework of the political dialogue in June 2015, the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture referred to the European Commission on the possibility of Member States restricting or prohibiting the use of GMOs for food and feed in their territory. The opinion was expressed that the proposal for a regulation which was then required to lay down clearer measures of exemption from the use of GMOs and food for animals, but also to leave the right for Member States to decide on exemption from use without specific conditions. In its reply, the Commission referred the applicant to the provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU in particular Article 15. Freedom of entrepreneurship and Article 41 Right to good administration. It was then about the use of GMO food and food for animals and today we are discussing amendments to the law on GMOs. Generally speaking, we are talking about comprehensive treatment of GMOs. Furthermore, the transposition of the key provisions of Directive 2015/412 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards Member States' opportunities to restrict or prohibit cultivation. So today we're talking about it, to GMOs in their own country. This proposal regulates the conduct, limited use or deliberate introduction into the environment of GMOs, the placing of GMOs and products containing GMOs and/or those consisting of or originating from GMOs on the market, handling, transport and packaging of GMOs, waste management of the resulting use of GMOs, liability for damage caused by the illicit use of GMOs are prescribed by the authorities responsible for implementing the provisions of the laws on how to report to the central and co-ordinated bodies and the European Commission, methods and techniques of official controls and infringement provisions. Directive 412/2015 of the European Parliament and of the Council has enabled Member States to be more flexible with the potential for GMO cultivation unless this affects the risk assessment procedure provided for in the EU GMO approval system. 17.9.2015. The Republic of Croatia has sent 9 exemption letters in accordance with that Directive requiring an appropriate geographical area for 9 GMOs of plant cultures. 03.10.2015. 19 Member States submitted a request with the Republic of Croatia for the restriction or prohibition of cultivation of GMOs in their national areas. In early March 2016, the official EU list published the European Commission's implementing decision on one authorised GMO intended for EU corn farming... 810, which includes an exemption from the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to stress that the Republic of Croatia as a Member State of the EU has taken over the rights and obligations that we need to respect if we want to make a significant and full member of the EU and avoid possible infringements of European law while at the same time protecting the interests that the Republic of Croatia represents on the subject of GMOs. This does not also apply to the adoption of the key provisions of the directive set out above in the draft law. I would like to remind here that certain Croatian units of regional regional self-government which have declared themselves free of GMOs by the decisions of their bodies confirms the direction of the Republic of Croatia as a GMO free state. The proposal for a law provides for the adoption of a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture which will provide for the restriction or prohibition of GMO cultivation in part or whole of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Following the above, in the procedure in which the Republic of Croatia will submit a request to the European Commission for exemption from GMO cultivation, sufficient space has been left for determining the reasons for which the Republic of Croatia may be called in connection with that request. So, no doubt we're against GMO cultivation. I speak against GMO cultivation throughout the Republic of Croatia according to the attitude of all 21 counties in the Republic of Croatia. Regardless of this, the adoption of this law is causing with the right of huge public interest but also certain reasonable doubts about the possibility of preventing the impact of globalisation, particularly of the single European market, on safeguarding state sovereignty in relation to the introduction of GMOs into the Republic of Croatia, in the form of seeds and bans on the cultivation of the same. We need to be very energetic here, we need to be determined because the thought itself would be able to do some test field, and even under controlled conditions, it could cause consequences if the GMO seed gets out of control. Croatia is a small country and therefore alone as regards the introduction of any and the smallest GMO seed, even for attempts in the strictest conditions of cultivation, strictly against. Therefore, take all measures to protect against the sowing of GMO seeds as well as measures to severely punish the offender. On the other hand, according to the above, the Republic of Croatia is a member of the single European market. It has therefore assumed both rights and obligations, so it is impossible to prohibit the import of meat from EU-fed GMOs. There's no import here, but that's what it's called. No import and no control. It is not correct or economically permissible to ban our farmers from GMOs' food for animals that their colleagues in the EU use uninterruptedly, and which is so much cheaper. With such a ban, our cattleman, along with all other benefites, used by EU farmers, would be under additional non-competitive conditions on the single European market. For example, I'm asking a question to all of you, dear colleagues. Where does the GMO soy go from that ship that you, a colleague of Bunjac, mentioned, land at the port of Koper, from Brazil which is GMO? It's going to the EU market, it's not coming back to South America. For the food of animals whose meat will, among other things, be freed from control at the shelves of our trade chains. This is why it is extremely important, by example to encourage other EU members in all possible ways of GMO free production. Furthermore, further make it clear that the labelling and declarations of food and agricultural products are to be made available to GMOs or GMOs free and strictly control the implementation of those products. In that case, the choice is on the consumer. In the end, once again, very tightly do not grow GMOs, or even for experiments and in the strictest controlled laboratory conditions. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43159	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. Mr. Bunjac, you've already picked up before and then, I've already recorded you. The first is Mr. Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43160	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Križanić, at the Committee on Agriculture in the debate on this law, referred to the question whether we have in the Republic of Croatia crops or GMO production plantations. We received an answer that the Ministry of Agriculture has not yet come up with a 2016 report on whether, in the meantime, as vice-president of the board, you received a reply from the ministry, was this analysis made, whether crops and crops with GMO origin were established in the Republic of Croatia or not? Is that information hidden from the public and why, and from who? I don't think it should be hidden, that it has to be published, and I also have to replicate on your claim that our cattlemen would have cheaper production if they used and used in the food production of GMOs, specifically with a large share of soybeans, or soybeans. Do you have any information on how many soybeans are imported into Croatia? And that's why she's cheaped the food. Does our cattlemen have cheaper production or continue to fail or do they still have expensive livestock food from these corporations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43161	Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43163	Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43164	I'm sorry, I'm not a diesel. But my colleague asked me a question, so it's correct for me to answer him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43165	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43166	So, as the Committee on Agriculture, we've all made it clear that we're all a free country for GMOs as far as breeding is concerned, all of us. We didn't get an answer until today on the board whether we have GMOs in Croatia or not. I don't know about that. As vice president of the board, I'm sure I'll stand for not having it, that's not what we do. I made that very clear in my debate. As far as production is concerned, livestock production is responsible for the import into Croatia of soybeans from Brazil, or not imported, from vessels from Copra and that such soybeans are 30% cheaper than GMOs free soybeans. Therefore, 30% is cheaper entry into livestock, so only livestock food is likely to burn by ten percent. I did not deal with the exact analysis of how much there is a percentage, but this is responsible for the fact that 30% cheaper imports into Croatia, i.e. imports of GMO soy from Copra and that Croatian peasants with such GMO feed their animals. Honor the exceptions. There are also those who don't feed, who feed on Croatian soy and who is GMO free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43167	Thank you, too. She's a colleague of Dear Roscic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43168	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Križanić, you have made it clear here what we are talking about here today is that in Croatia it is forbidden to grow GMO food. On the other hand, you were honest with the citizens and said that our shelves already contain foods, or meat that has been grown, meaning GMOs with food. It is also important to point out here that you simply presented a number of reasons why it is impossible to control and ban, but it is important to label. It means that both meat and any food that uses GMOs in its process to clearly indicate, label, control and also inform citizens when they take some food that is GMOs free and which is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43169	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43170	I thank you colleagues for this question. We can't forbid anything. Food coming from the EU is freely crossing Croatia's borders, so it's free, it's a single market, inter trade, there's no ban. Even food coming from third countries where I think of meat from South America is fed by GMOs or GMO corn or GMO products. Such meat comes to the Croatian state market in trade chains. If we don't have a quality declaration on the grocery, and I strongly advocate that such declarations are introduced not only to be introduced, they have, they've been introduced but there's not enough control over the declarations. It is extremely important to control the declarations and then every customer will have a choice. Either they will buy a GMO free which is declared and then as such must be or will decide on a GMO grocery that does not mean, doctors have said here just before me that nowhere before I have encountered any article has come across that someone is talking about that GMO food in any health aspect of the pathogen, that I do not say it affects all those diseases that a colleague of Bunjac spoke before and frightened the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43171	Third replica, Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43172	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanić. I also congratulate you on your honesty. You're one of the few HDZ representatives who basically said everything that's true. Because you've actually just confirmed everything I've been saying and I'm glad we agree on that part. So you said as vice president of the Agriculture Committee you couldn't get any information about GMOs, that you had to wait a year. So how long would I have to wait as an opposition representative then until the end of the world? The second thing you said about the GMO government deciding the regulations, that's what I said. So it's not the Parliament who decides, it's the government's decision, and the government is making regulations based on the opinion of those committees under the authority of the Ministry of Culture who have no slight ties to agriculture. You also said that you are against GMO crops, but that you are not against imports because Croatia cannot ban anything. Oh, yeah! We can't forbid anything. If they send us, if they tell us that people feed we can't even ban it, because here we are in such a position that we simply can't do anything to anyone. It's a popular song now, isn't it? No one can do anything. Then you said that cattle food comes from Brazil and via the port of Kopar to enter Croatia and that people eat it. I'd like to ask you what your opinion of the Zika virus is and what you think of the causes, for example, of the horrors that have mass-produced in Brazil. Does this have anything to do with Brazil being the world's leading producer of GMOs, or is it perhaps the same conspiracy theory as this representative Jovanovic says? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43173	Thank you, too. In the end, Mr. Angel's Uncle. Here you go. And the answer to the replica, excuse me, Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43174	Thank you for your questions. The government is adopting a regulation under the laws passed by this House, this Parliament. Therefore, the government itself cannot make regulations unless we give them a mandate. When you talk about food last time you said and today you're talking about it, you should, that you should. You think, do you really think that the Croatian state could survive two months, one month without imports? You really think so? If you're so brave, I don't know what data you're having, but I know you spoke very well about the enormous import of food. Therefore, we cannot prevent this moment from importing food, because the Croatian nation will be hungry within a month. That's what we've done. That's the situation for the last 25 years. It is a fact, therefore, that we import food from the EU, enter, do not import, it has no control, we cannot ban it. There's no way to ban her. None. And the food that comes from overseas countries, the sooner I told you, has some sort of slow-moving control. However, she freely comes into our shopping chains, to you and to me on the table. On the other hand, you asked me about Brazil and GMOs. Well, I just said, I'm not a supporter of GMOs, I've never been, I'm just talking very clearly about the facts and the living life that we live. We can be idealists, but life isn't like that, and I haven't found it, I've come to know about all these horrors that you've been talking about. No scientific article is unquestionably speaking and has any evidence of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43175	Thank you, too. And now, in the end, it's really Angel's Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43176	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Križanić, in your debate, you pointed out that it is certain that our country is against the cultivation of GMOs. You also stated that we are part of a single European market and that it is literally impossible to prohibit any meat from European countries that has been farmed with cattle, you have even cited an example of GMO soybeans, ending up on our shelves. Of course, I agree that any such meat should be especially marked with a declaration. However, there are additional opportunities, to protect ourselves from meat and similar processing from European countries, which is the Public Procurement Act, to allow all our institutions, which are required to call for supplies, meaning, the tender, to use short supply chains. And that means that I can state in the contest that from the hour of slaughter or harvesting, within a few hours must end up on the desk of the client. So this is another option in which to avoid such food from European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43177	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43178	I thank my colleague, Uncle, for this question. Yes, the Public Procurement Act foresees such a possibility, short chains, are a very important thing, which we have now installed in this last Public Procurement Act. I like to say it's a traditional sale. This means that our kindergartens, our schools, our army, our police, don't necessarily have to be used by that classic model of public procurement and that no one can object to it afterwards would be ideally possible for our farmer, our peasant from the area... Countys either sell their products in the area of their county, in their kindergartens, schools or institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our children would get fresh food, they should be pursued, they should be promoted. It should also be promoted to eat domestic Croatian products, safe. It is extremely important to say, it is a very small possibility, i.e. a much greater possibility of contamination, if they can call it, GMOs, products from overseas countries, where GMOs are much more embedded in animals, in animal food, and there is a law on unfair commercial practice, which will further contribute to this, to improving this topic Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43179	Thank you, too, we have exhausted the replicas, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, so this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the GMO Act is one serious topic, a topic that must really be approached with arguments, no politicizing, no offense, no different opinion, because as I said at the beginning, it's not a black white picture. So you, after this Regulation was adopted, I tried to read various documents, you immediately had a completely black white picture, divided. So part of the people felt that this regulation introduced even stricter rules for GMOs. The other thought the rules were loose, and in fact, the truth is back in the middle, both of them, why each other? Because according to this new directive, a spectrum of reasons on which a Member State will be able to prohibit GMO cultivation on its territory has spread. Therefore, countries that do not want GMOs, with this directive, have received even stronger weapons that GMOs will not even be. On the other hand, countries that have previously had GMOs, which want to expand production, which only with cultivation want to start, in fact, this directive allows them to do so and that no one can stop them. What should be crucial in both countries is scientifically justified by the data and respect of the public opinion in that country. I think that's exactly what we've got for them. I asked on the board and today here at the beginning of this session, is respecting this directive changing for Croatia? Does Croatia really have to change all its decisions now and listen to some GMO lobby? I got the answer that's not true. So, it is clear that Croatia remains in its entire area, GMOs grow a free country and no one can change that and I think that for the sake of the public it is important to say it. So I'm not going to repeat what this regulation is about, but it's the most important message. Therefore, Croatia has decided to be GMOs for free countries and no one can impose a different view. Anything else to say, unfortunately it's not true and misinformation to the public. Of course, the implementation should now be cautious and not let anything slip contrary to what we heard here today from the secretary of state and from all those who represented the committees of this topic. What I particularly want to stress is that every man has the right to choose and it is therefore important that the food that is imported into Croatia, but in accordance with the regulations, to know whether or not GMOs are free and that our food is clearly declared, and at this point, no colleagues and colleagues are declared, it is an important problem for me, that Croatian citizens who want GMOs can buy free food that is GMOs free. And that is what should be dealt with urgently and secured through implementing acts. And he would really ask when we speak in public, when he listens to the public, that we do not read unverified information about how individual food endangers human health if these data are not scientifically founded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43181	Thank you very much. We only have one replica, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43182	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jovanovic. How do you comment on former Health Minister Andrija Hebrang's statement that Croatia cannot publish GMOs and producers in Croatia because it would endanger their profits? So that's the official statement made by the Minister of Health. And how do you comment on our representative Križanić's statement to the Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture that he can't for a year but how little less, almost a year, the Assembly is getting information on how much livestock food has been imported into Croatia and how much of this GMO food is used, and he is a member of the ruling majority? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43183	Mr. Josip Križanić injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43184	Thank you. Article 238 of my colleague, Bunjac, does not amount to untrueness, I did not expect that from you. There's no reason to confront an opinion then tell me what you disagree with. You said that I hadn't gotten the information as vice president of the board for a year, I didn't say that and that's not true, but I said that since last session, Mr. Vlaovic asked me if we got the information from last session to today, and I said I didn't. And we had the last session two, three days ago. So it's not about a year, it's about two or three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43185	Thank you, too. Answer to the replica Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43186	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, my colleague Bunjac, here I invite you to come along and formulate this parliamentary issue and send it to the authorities and see if we can get an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43187	Thank you very much. They were all very short. Mr. Davor Vlaović Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43188	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate. I welcome you on behalf of the HSS Club and, in our name, we immediately say that HSS and I are personally against the introduction of GMOs into the Republic of Croatia and as regards production, transport, use and processing. Most counties, or 20 counties, have decided that they are against GMO production in their territory. An initiative has been launched by the Republic of Croatia to strengthen its position to free Croatia from GMOs and initiatives have been launched on this side, together with Slovenia, Italy, Austria, through the Alpe-Adria Group. I don't know if I'd like to have the secretary of state and professional services give me an answer in which phase we are in, but the fact is that this law and this directive allow EU members to regulate GMOs in their territory or to prohibit, allow, and in what formats it allows. Croatia has made it clear through the view of the counties and other bodies that it is against GMOs in its area and this directive and this law should be a tool for the Republic of Croatia to strengthen its position. The dilemma presented here is believed to have introduced Article 7 in which it is said that the body interested in GMOs will submit a request to the competent ministries to allow them to be questioned etc., etc. We think that if we have made a decision that we are against GMOs in the Republic of Croatia then we don't need this either, that we should delete this article and simply say we are against GMOs in Croatia. And if a state body needs to examine whether there is a GMO in a sample then it should be clearly written and told which state body, which is a reference laboratory, and not to leave here at a small door the possibility for some scientific institutions to be examined or for some other under the cover of tests and expert analyses to introduce GMOs into the Republic of Croatia. In the world it's one monster, America, South America over 90, 95% soy, corn, oil tails have been genetically modified and now different studies are being done, research and are extremely strong these chemical lobbies that do not allow the relationship of such food to be genetically modified with an increase in cancer, asthma, cardiovascular problems, allergies. But the fact that America has an increased percentage of these diseases and that many link it exactly to the use of GMOs. For these reasons, we are against the introduction of GMOs into Croatia. Second, the agronomic profession and these chemical companies wanted to impose a view that genetic modification would result in higher yields in soy, corn, oily tails compared to sugar tails on conventional cultivation. Research done in the meantime shows that this is not so that these contributions are equal in both conventional production and GMOs. It has been said that the use of pesticides will be reduced, not true, there are analyses in both France and in some other countries and in America who have worked, professional and scientific journals dealing with agriculture and food production where they say that they have not increased the production and use of pesticides, in either case, it is al pairs again. So there is no scientific basis or professional justification that we need to introduce GMO cultured varieties to increase fertility, reduce pesticide use in Croatia. Besides a million and 600 thousand hectares in Croatia, we currently use only 800 thousand acres of oracica and about 500 thousand hectares of pasture. We have a terrible potential here to raise production and what's been happening lately is that we're just growing ecological, ecological surfaces and the number of family farms and companies that have applied for organic production. And that is exactly the chance of Croatia and the comparative advantage in food production. But what we're missing is at this point it's to protect that domestic production. There are several ways, first of all, to stimulate the production of domestic varieties, we have the BC institute, we have the Osijek Institute and some other houses dealing with the production of seeds, wheat, soybeans, corn. Why not give them institutional support and financial support to raise the level of production. Secondly, we can increase the awareness of our agricultural producers to use domestic seeds and stimulate them to the same. To strengthen the advisory service that we have transformed into administrators, to strengthen the Croatian Agricultural Agency's services to stimulate exactly and through the discussion and preparation of projects for our economies to use the domestic shadows that are here proven through a series of attempts to give birth to the same species as these genetically modified hybrids. Are we doing this? No, I don't. Are we more seriously encouraging ecological agriculture in Croatia? No, I don't. We also condemn those who, of course, took advantage of organic farming under the parole of ecologically, so the pastures raised incentives and did nothing on them. And it's good to introduce order and know who the manufacturer is and who's not the manufacturer. And we just like Croatia have a chance here. Inspectorate supervision, so I asked my colleague Križanić if we had, did we get the information, whether it exists in Croatia now or now with genetically modified seed, variety or plantation. We haven't got it yet, it's not good that we don't have it, we have to urgently ask the ministry to present it because the fact that there are insinuations because of our borders, because of the border that is with BiH, that our agricultural producers are going to buy seed goods in neighbouring countries and no one can blame them. But it must be controlled and they must also be conscious that they do not know what they are buying and that these GMOs are not quality marked as well as their colleague Križanić said. We already have GMO food in Croatia, it is not a secret 1630 tonnes of soy last year imported and this year will be introduced. However, there is potential in Croatia for us to produce enough soybeans for as much livestock as there is left in Croatia. And it's not because we're importing soy shotgun that's 30% cheaper and GMOs, it's costing meat to our consumers and it's not even marked to be fed to GMOs. We cheat on our consumers and it must be marked. We need to introduce the designation of GMOs, we need to mark food that has no GMOs as we made milk with Croatian farms and so on. This state and the Ministry of Agriculture must introduce and help our producers to increase the competitiveness of our agricultural producers. Yes, of course, and the Law on unfair commercial practice, that and urgently through public procurement, through the Short Chains of Supply Act, reduce the delivery deadlines of goods and thus fresh goods must reach our hospitals, kindergartens, schools, which already appears through EU projects. It means fruit and vegetables and milk in schools and kindergartens. But why not meat, why not others produce it that way? We can protect our domestic agricultural production. These are the reasons why not GMOs in Croatia. Marking, inspection, tightening more control. It's impossible for one or two controls a year at big houses to be enough so they don't tie up and don't bring GMOs to our backyard at our little door. And, of course, more clearly define this legal part that no one can deal with the production, transport, processing of GMOs in Croatia. And here's a regulation that products that have more than 0.9% of GMO origin must be marked, are they marked and why exactly 0.9, who decided that? It's a compromise between these companies and state bodies. Why wasn't it 1, 1, 1.5 or 0.5. I don't think that's scientific either, but here's the deal that's going to be 0.9 and that 0.9 isn't even marked. And it should be in our regulations more clearly defined who controls that marking, how many letters must be, and not to be invisible, so that that group of people who are vegans who don't eat meat essentially eat soy tofu that is GMO. And they don't know they're using anything with animal origin. Here are the reasons why the HSS at this point in first reading will not be for this law. We ask that it be completed, to define more precisely this Article 5 of the proposed law, that it cannot even be examined to enter GMOs in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43189	We have two replicas. First Mr. Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vlaović, you said we had a dilemma about whether GMO food is growing in the Republic of Croatia, that we didn't get the data and we didn't get to this day. Now I've got them on the table and I'll read them to you. However, again I want to say very clearly and loudly myself and the HDZ Club is very strong against GMO cultivation in Croatia. Amen. And I don't want to discuss it with anyone anymore. So here's the deal. The Ministry of Health, the Department of Sanitary Inspection, I am talking about the first half of 2017 since 3.7.2017. caused by 126, so the Department of Sanitary Inspection, I am talking about the Ministry of Health. The presence of GMOs has not been established in a food sample of 126 food samples by analysing those samples. Keep going. We're talking about the Ministry of Agriculture, agricultural culture, corn 20, soy 8, sugar tail 5, sunflower 3. It is 36 random samples taken, 36 at a level like this, a total of 37 samples of the desired mass in the Croatian fields. None of the samples detected the presence of GMOs. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43191	Replica, answer to the replica Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43192	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Križanić, thank you for getting this information and I welcome, of course, the position of the HDZ Club that it is against genetically modified organisms in Croatia, means both in production and in transport and in transport and in processing. It is good that we do not have in Croatia right now, that we do not have any crops or crops in Croatia following this inspection. However, this number of inspections is far too small in view of problems in the border belt. I was just asking for this because of the Croatian public, not to misinformed the Croatian public because individuals began to say that we had some crops and plantations that were GMOs, which treated by mistake with total herbicides with their soybeans, and she remained and they suspected that GMOs. Now we've heard officially that it's not and I'm glad it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43193	Thank you very much. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43194	... So I'm not going to say that my friend Vlaovic told a lie, but he said an incorrect quote of mine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm still talking, if we're talking about this current law that HDZ's stance against GMO cultivation is what we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43195	Thank you very much. The second replica, Mr. Angel's Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43196	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague of Vlaović, you have stated that there is a need to encourage domestic production, domestic varieties and from plant production to meat. I couldn't agree more. Many of the laws that have been passed here lately go in favour of that finding. Among other things, the Public Procurement Act. Last week we passed the National Security Act, where it is also strictly stated. Well, among other things, here's one piece of information that we've come up with now in preparation for the local elections. In the area of Varazdin County all five to seven percent need for fish of their own production is produced, five to seven percent. Now imagine how rich the Varazdin County area is with water. Of course here I agree, so with your thesis, we should encourage domestic production as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43197	Mr. Vlaovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43198	Thank you, fellow Striker, thank you, Vice President, for the opportunity to respond. The potential in Croatia exists. I said that out of a million and 600 thousand acres, we use 800 thousand acres for hurricanes and about 500 thousand acres for pastures. So there's potential. How to Promote Domestic Production? I said what models they were. Of course, it still needs to be discussed with the profession and the field, but the fact that genetically modified organisms have not brought food production or pesticides to an increase anywhere in the world. So we agree in that part. But here I will take the opportunity to invite the Ministry of Health and Agriculture to contact until the second reading of the Croatian county. Because when we made those decisions that we were GMO County free, we didn't have much guidance or knowledge, so we did it ourselves. As a result, 10 counties decided to ban the use of genetically modified seeds, ban the production of GMO products and ban the placing on the market, 9 counties ban the use of GMO seeds and two counties ban the use of seeds and ban the production of food. This should be even and invite the counties to adapt these decisions in accordance with the new directives and this law to the new legal framework and thus have a uniform attitude of Croatia towards this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43199	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the clubs. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it seems to me that the debate of some clubs is like we're in 2005. So, the Law on genetically modified organisms was passed back in 2005 in the Republic of Croatia. Afterwards, the 2009, 2013 and 2014 amendments were related to the harmonisation of the EU acquis. If you have read what it says in the directive, it is only pointed out by Professor Jovanovic. Therefore, the European Directive implements this European Directive allows Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in their territory. I am sorry for Mr Vlaovic's failure to take a little look at the initiative of the European Parliament, Marijana Petir, who spoke about everything that exists in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, about the Alpe Adria region as a GMO free region. I think it would be much more constructive for your debate. I understand that you are in opposition, and as such you are always looking for hair in the egg, to be against a certain legal proposal. But these amendments to the law allow Croatia to be a GMO free country. A lot of talk was about potential health risks. Therefore, the use of genetic engineering in medicine and pharmacies has been generally accepted and human and recombinant insulin is produced for many years, a hepatitis B vaccine is produced, then a blood clot factor. There are no obstacles, however, the fact is that in the production of purpose, the use of genetic engineering has caused major public and professional reactions, for the sake of potential environmental and human health hazards. In order to assess the safety of genetically modified and other new intentions, the World Health Organization has developed a special approach, based on evidence of equivalence to a significant extent. Why? Because research is not allowed, clinical trials on people who are related to GMOs are therefore used means data related to indirect studies. The risk assessment of GMOs is carried out from several aspects, i.e. direct effects on health, i.e. toxicity, allergenic, specific components that are thought to have food or toxic properties. So, food effects related to genetic modification, I could now do a lot of different research, but I'll just mention, so the results that were carried out at the Norwegian Institute for Ecology of Genes, which pointed to potential health hazards of intentional and health vaccines. Thus, it was found that in the Philippines, BT corn at the time of the polarization caused disease in people who lived near the field of that corn. Likewise, Monsant's genetically modified soybean, after imports to the UK, has increased the trend of allergy to soybeans by 50%. However, there is, therefore, great concern that GMO grains contribute to an increase in allergies and immunological sensitivity in the population, however, the conclusions, the current conclusions on potential hazards, which are partly based on animal experiments, say that we cannot yet determine at this point any potential dangers to human health. So, direct association of GMOs with harmfulness to human health. So, I understand that this is also an interesting topic for the media, and that this will be well conveyed and should be spoken to, all information should be offered, but not information based on any inscriptions in the yellow press, yet someone needs to see scientifically justified facts and these scientifically justified facts used in the reasoned discussion of the adoption of this law. So, I think these amendments to the law are useful and that Croatia can continue to be a GMO free country and you can be sure, if you vote, if you have already decided after the first reading, but if you change your mind after the second reading, you can sleep peacefully because nothing dramatic will happen in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43201	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr. Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43202	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Ivana, I suggest that you listen to me more precisely in the future, because I did not say that I am against the law, but I said that the law must be more precise and must not leave the possibility of doubting whether GMO food can be introduced in Croatia for questioning, whether it is an experiment or a clinical trial in the laboratory, and this also leaves the possibility of Article 3 and Article 5 and Article 7. I asked that it be deleted or more precise, and Mr Petri spoke to the HSS and the Croatian Peasant Party, together with the Green and Ecological Associations, launched an initiative to pass that law on GMOs in Croatia. And she spoke to the HSS in the European Parliament and I don't know what happened in March that the representatives of the Republic of Croatia were restrained by Monsant's request that two new varieties be allowed to grow in the EU. That is what we fear, so that Croatia will not be abstentioned again and that such an undetermined law will not be the basis for the introduction of GMOs into Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43203	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43204	I think it's good to talk about it, but look at this very introduction, where the GMO Act is speaking, there is actually, let's say, a concrete intentional introduction of GMOs into the environment. It's been in the law since 2005, so there's nothing to change about it. The 2015 Directorate-General only allows me to make it even more explicit, as 19 EU Member States seem, limited, or banned the use of GMOs, so that Croatia remains in that category and that is what counterpart Križanić said, so absolutely no cultivation and the HDZ Representatives' Club is not for cultivation, and I don't think there is anyone in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43205	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr Branimir Bunjac. You've raised, but you have a word as an individual debate. Here's Mr Branimir Bunjac, you have an individual debate, then, there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43206	So, thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament. I'd like to say some more things about what's been said today and, of course, above all about this law itself. We heard, regrettable things, indeed regrettable from the ranks of HDZ deputies who said that Croatia would be hungry without importing food. She'd be hungry. And indeed, when we drive to Slavonia, and here people haven't been hungry for 1400 years, where we see empty fields, empty houses. In Osijek, 1,000 people eat in public kitchens. Isn't that sad? Well, this Slavonia could feed all of Croatia and three other surrounding countries. And now we depend on the import of food. So where did those cows, the pigs, the sheep chickens, the goats, those fields, the wheat. Who's to blame? What policy? Whose? And now those HDZ representatives say, no, we're for stimulating production. So what are you going to do with this incentivize production? With this you encourage production in Croatia? That's a measure, introducing GMOs through Copra, so you can be competitive? You'll be competitive with that. Well, who do you laugh at with such claims? So are you even listening to yourself? Croatian domestic production is protected in quite other ways. Croatia has everything, but absolutely all capacities, to feed not 4, but 8 million people. This law certainly won't contribute. Not at all. This law is a servant, as you yourself have admitted in the interest of, therefore, foreign corporations and the EU, and you will only introduce it because you are afraid. You are afraid for your chair, is that, 76 Croatian patriots, are in great fear that they will not lose the salary that comes in time and pleasant benefits. Even Serbia has declarations of GMO food. Oh how proud that word sounds, so do they. And we don't. So what are we waiting for? Here we wait until Mr. Križanić gets an answer like that, in about 50 years, we'll just get stamps while all the food is GMO. Says Agent One, prove to me that GMO's harmful. So what do I have to prove? You're bringing him in. You prove it, gentlemen. You are the ones who pass the law in the Croatian Parliament, so please give your references, that it is good and that it is healthy. I'll be happy to read those articles that say this law is okay and there's no evidence that it's hurt anyone. Do you know, that in Russia, which is a power, of course, unlike us, the introduction of GMOs by law is a terrorist act, for which you can get up to 20 years in prison, because it encourages mass murder... Thank you very much for coming into my word, but please report for the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of course, that Russia, that's the same to you all that they're doing it sucks, they're making the same people who aren't as learned as you and your important secretaries, but they banned it, solved it. It's not just forbidden to sow GMO crops. Any experiments with GMOs, any import of food, and make sure they have future and already have far less health problems, than we, and their agriculture, will certainly not fail, nor will the Russians be hungry. Hungary burned all GMO fields. All GMOs, our neighbors, here we are in an hour to get to them. They burned it. Why they burned it. They also didn't read these very good articles of yours about well-being for farmers and health for people. Here you go tonight, I believe you'll have time after this debate, you'll need a little relaxation, the Bitter Seeds movie wasn't me filming it, it was filmed by very serious journalists, researchers. Look at the benefits Monsanto brought to India, where 300,000 had to be killed, killed to save that evil. You trade and do business with such people and say that they have scientific evidence. With the killers? I don't understand. If you think they're scientists, that they're good people, I repeat again, if you're really uninformed, then you're really bad people. There's no middle. Take your pick. And always that but, yes, that we're all against, but this, but that, you decide to or against. Take a look at this article. 27. You allow the establishment of a laboratory to monitor GMOs but you give them permission in just 2 years, that only 2 years, every 2 years, they have to renew their license. Why? Why such a short deadline? Is it perhaps because, if they were to accidentally give this information to the public, that they might be denied permission? Why is this deadline so short, can you explain it to me? Please. For the end, I want to say this. I see that with most clubs, reason prevails and that they will vote against this law in the first reading, I hope that they will vote in both the second and the final, just as we MPs of the Living Wall and the SNAGA will be against, but I would like to make it clear to you, if this law is passed, that we will send it to the assessment of the constitutionality, because it is counter-constitutional. The directive, none from the EU, cannot be transposed if all 20 counties have said that they are neither for cultivation nor for imports of human food, nor for imports of livestock food, nor for laboratories, nor for experiments, nor for anything you will fail. The Croatian people are against it and we will do whatever it takes to ensure that this law does not pass. And you're welcome to bring the second and third and fifth readings as many amendments as you want, but I repeat once again, you're not gonna make it. The moment we submit a proposal for an assessment of constitutionality, at that time we will ban a complete ban on foods containing GMOs in human and animal nutrition, banning any GMO seeds in the environment and prohibiting the implementation of any experiments related to GMOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43207	Thank you, too. One is a replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43208	Comrade Bunjac, you quoted just before one representative who said, can Croatia be without imports. Well, of course it's all made so he can't do it without importing it. We will not only mention Slavonia, I will mention the Cetina region, Sinjsko polje, Imotsko polje, Vrgoračka polje, small fields but which are huge through which rivers pass through the Sinj Polje river Cetina, clean, clear, pie, but there is no irrigation system, targeted no irrigation system. And I guess now they're gonna build a irrigation system, but the concession bill has been passed, so maybe Monsanto gets that concession, it's probably possible he's the best bidder. So we have empty fields, we have water, we have all the conditions that we have good and healthy food, we produce. The guy when I go down my house, the guy you can't see anywhere cows, no sheep, no goats, means the targeted system made us not have enough food and to import food. So import lobbys in the ministries, listeners who just prescribe directives. What our colleague said is we're fighting GMOs, so we're coming in and we're being held back for two of these new GMO-modified products that were to be introduced, so we're not clear, we're not consistent, we don't have some principle of clarity or people familiar with everything that's going on right now. And Croatia alone with Slavonia products could have enough food. And not only that, it is surprising that the Croatian company Podravka, where Croatia is owned mostly to import from Hungary re-promatter, i.e. these fewer produce carrots, peppers... it's more than organized crime against villages, peasants. Because if we have a poor village, we have a poor population, we have a poor city, and that's why people move out. Planned and targeted everything is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43209	Thank you, too. The answer to Mr. Bunjac's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43210	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, that you have guessed exactly at the core of the matter, and the core of the matter is that Croatian village and agriculture are deliberately suppressed. So here we are today reading that you can buy a house in Baranja cheaper than a used car. Who brought about such a condition? Well, those people who used to live in Baranja, well, Baranja was the concept of wealth. And what do we have today? Today we have a monopoly of foreign companies like Dukat but it's not Dukat, but it's actually French Lactalis who simply destroyed Croatian milkmen almost to the ground, that they have to sell milk for some kind of change that doesn't allow them to survive and then sell cows. I repeat once again, we have the DZS, look at the number of cattle, cattle, poultry in Croatia, you have one steep-headed drop that does not stop, the same breed of agricultural products. Here someone mentioned that Croatia is more than half of its country, half of its farmland is not being processed. Who's in the interest of who? Of course, here's who you said it was in the interest of, so it's in Monsanto's interest, they're interested in it, Lactalis, Nestle, the bosses need it. And what is this government doing to save Slavonia? He's passing a law on GMOs, and instead of dealing with real problems. From Slavonia every day the buses leave, and they tell us that because you don't really know the facts, you don't know science, you have no idea, so we'll teach you after 1,500 years of agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43211	Thank you, too. Don't sit down, come here. You've got the last five minutes on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43212	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the end of this debate in the first reading, I would like to remind once again that this law is completely harmful and that the entire Croatian public is against it. This law is malicious, this law works against our country. When the concession law was, too, my colleague Sincic and I were the only ones who voted against and then they spoke, and yet they are opposed to themselves don't know what they're talking about, so that people at the end of the day when it was already too late to figure out what it was about. They realized in the end, in the end people rebelled, but it was too late the law was passed. We've been extradited to foreign bankers, our shores and foreign corporations. Let's please keep this in the loop. Here I repeat, you have the film "Bitter Seeds", look at this film, it's very interesting, it'll certainly keep your attention. Now listen as Agent Jovanovic says is both sides and both sides, and let's think about what is being offered here, do we need such laws, this transposition of the directive, does this really contribute to the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, does this contribute to the health of Croatian people, does this contribute to our sovereignty, to the salvation of Slavonia, or is this a law that is in the service of a narrow click that smiles openly in our face like the gentleman from Monsanto in charge of Southeast Europe who says you do whatever you want, we will take over 35% of Croatia because we have strong political ties? Your interview is publicly available. Are we gonna let that happen? Is it more important for Croatia to change some records, I don't know how to deal with names like this, such as for Croatia, or is it more important to have food that has fed us all the time since we moved here 1400 years ago and which can feed us and for the next 100 thousand years we just need to have a good master over our country to preserve both flora and fauna and micro-organisms and all that this country provides us with an immeasurable wealth, one great beauty, the possibility of living well long and healthy. Please inform everyone, let the entire Croatian public be informed until the second reading at least we think in fact that the public has already brought its own words that it is actually more of a matter of those who, they bureaucrats who are headlessly bringing these directives here that they should, first of all, first of all, raise awareness of the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43213	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43214	Comrade Bunjac, I agree with you that good management and sustainable development of our resources must have enough food and we can do what we are 1400 years, which has kept us, can say the following and for a long, long time. Of course it's sad, I mentioned Podravka a little while ago, so here's Vegeta's product is all imported, even the air is drained when it's vacuuming. So nothing is absolutely Croatian and the state is the owner and means company Podravka. That says it all, says the fact that it's not someone's interest to tell Podravka it takes so many peppers, pomadors, or it'll be good to be our GMO modified products, to be, say, tomatoes or pomidores in us, it'll be like melon, watermel. Maybe Monsanto will work it out a lot easier and it'll be healthy, it'll be acceptable. Of course, it has not been managed well so far, it has not been managed by strategic resources, it has not been meant for a sustainable reason but only for our agricultural land and the rest of what we have served as a means of exploiting the field for some powerful people and it has forgotten both Slavonia and Podravina and Dalmatia Zagora and Gorski Kotar, and where you come from, everything is forgotten and therefore the young go away and the resources and potentials can be used because we have enough agricultural land to be, and for export. So, here are the messages to Podravka, we know that the new manager is headed, that it is unfortunate that in Vegeta, a recognizable product, there is not a single product in Croatia, agricultural products in Croatia. That is enough message as far as we think of Croatian producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43215	Would you like to answer? No, I don't. And finally, Mr. Zeljko Plazonić, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a few words after all. I thank all the participants in the debate because much of the debate was absolutely correct and concrete and concerned the essence of this agenda point. I also thank those who have tried to degrade, insult and transfer the subject matter to other concepts and objects and content that have nothing to do with this agenda and this law. Since I have plenty of time and I see that the situation has been quite exciting and exciting during this discussion, then I will say that since March 2015, when the new EU Directive came into force, 412/215 of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the other 27 EU Member States, in order to protect national territory from possible cultivation of GMOs, it has been binding to comply with the provisions of the new EU legislation and to require all new procedures for the approval of GMOs, plant material intended for cultivation, cultivation, as well as for 9 previously submitted applications for approval and placing on the market of GMOs of plant reproductive material, it is required to apply according to the prescribed procedure in the directive in question to exempt Croatian territory from possible cultivation of GMOs on its territory according to the imperative reasons set out in that and the hundred Directive. I think I've made myself quite clear and it's clear why we're passing this law. For the first time at EU level, the Directive provides for the possibility for EU Member States to make a decision on a subsidized basis at national level to restrict GMO cultivation in part of EU implementing decisions to indicate the Member States to which that cultivation is disabled. As a result, the Government has proposed that provisions be introduced in the proposed legislation in question to define the way in which Croatia's territory is exempt from possible cultivation of GMOs at national level and an act that will prescribe the procedure for the exemption of Croatian territory from possible GMO cultivation. A provision defining the central authority of the state administration to implement on behalf of the Republic of Croatia the whole process of exempting the entire territory from possible cultivation of GMOs, cultivation for each species or type of genetically modified plant, and a provision by which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a provision prohibiting and exempting Croatian territory from possible cultivation of GMOs. At the same time, the provisions laid down by the inspection bodies in charge of carrying out official controls in the area of GMOs, with an emphasis on those inspection bodies responsible for carrying out official controls throughout imports, the introduction of reproductive plant material and primary production itself, and the infringement provisions defining the infringement provisions relating to the description of the infringement of that topic and the protection measures against possible unwanted contamination of the environment with GMOs, as well as provisions defining the mandatory and enforcement of the co-existence measures in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. It is currently Directive 2001/2018. Regulation 1829/2003. a comprehensive legal framework for the approval of genetically modified organisms which is fully applicable to GMOs to be used for breeding across the Union as seed or other plant reproductive materials. Once GMOs have been authorised for breeding purposes in accordance with the legal frameworks of the Union, Member States shall not be authorised to prohibit, restrict or restrict their free movement on their national territory. In order to limit or prohibit the cultivation of GMOs, certain Member States have in the past applied safeguard clauses, both the Republic of Croatia or emergency measures pursuant to Article 23. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Regulations that would eventually fall under the European Court of Justice. That's the answer to our abstention vote, because otherwise they would vote against themselves. Allegedly, on the ineffectiveness of the decision-making process in connection with the approval of GMOs in the EU in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, publication and entry into force of Directive 2015/412, and the implementation of the same in the national legislation of EU Member States was given for the first time the possibility of decision-making at national level on the principle of subsidiarity in the form of prohibitions and restrictions on GMOs in their own territory by excluding the whole or part of the territory of Member States from possible cultivation of GMOs in their own territory. So it can be as any Member State wants or will have its territory completely excluded from GMOs or will only have parts. Looking at certain Croatian counties and Croatian population in connection with GMOs and in order to protect domestic agricultural production with the desire to remain a country that prohibits GMOs from growing in the Republic of Croatia. We need to install in the current legislation the latest EU legislation provisions that will allow us to protect our Croatian territory legally from possible cultivation of GMOs. Accordingly, it is necessary to adopt this draft law. So we have to adopt this law just to get through legal procedure and we can protect our territory from GMOs. That's the point of everything and that's the point of this law. And I believe that many benevolent people who want to hear this will really hear and respect it. And in the end, can I finish? I can. I am pleased that everyone who debated here today is practically at the same point of view, the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia, and my personal view that we are absolutely against the cultivation of genetically modified forms on our territory just to achieve it. As a member of the EU, we must respect certain European legal procedures. As for colleagues of Bulja and those 0.9%, or you asked 0.9, that's because it's a possibility when a laboratory can diagnose GMO forms in a given sample. Under 0.9 he can't, and over 0.9 he can. But that's a minimum of 0.9%. That's one thing. The second thing, in 2017, to obtain incentives from the Ministry of Agriculture for sowing and cultivation of non-GMO soybean hrvatska ratars had to provide evidence that the seeds that will shine on GMOs were on non-GMO so that a total of 481 samples of soybeans were analysed at the beginning of 2017. Therefore, there was an analysis to get the incentive. And the number of samples analysed was the total feed for seeds and feed for animals in 2016 was 396, and we have the data exactly by seeds, green mass, food and food for animals. Therefore, this analysis is being carried out, this control is being carried out. It is known precisely, but the position of all those involved, all ministries, the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we want Croatia to be a GMO free country. But I'm saying and I repeat that we'd be able to implement this, we need certain legal procedures, and one of these is the adoption of these additions and amendments to this law. So we're all in the same position I'd say starting position. We all want the same thing just plainly to interpret these wishes to everyone in a specific way. But in any case, I thank all those who were absolutely constructive in this discussion and I hope that they will continue to be together with all of us who have the same goals and tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43217	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Two last replicas of the evening. First Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43218	Dear Secretary, this topic is too serious, and when we talk here about European directives or how you say verbally to our necks or how we Parliamentarians know how to talk about these topics, but the fact that Croatia is very few and all agreements, all arbitration is mostly lost, i.e. He's losing everything. That's why we're in mine where I come from in the Cetina region saying who the snake is biting and the lizard's afraid of. So all these directives that we get on the table every day, in this case we get around GMOs around modified organisms, I doubt it's already on our agricultural surfaces. Can you guarantee... Now a seed sown on our agricultural land? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that's not the case, but I feel and I know that this seed has certainly been dragged away because it is a seed of evil, a seed that destroys our culture, our tradition of farming, and which is intended to master 100% of the seed in the world. And he will succeed if we are a soft policy, if we are obedient to a variety of directives, but the fact is that, when two attempts to vote the European Commission, two Monsanto products, that Croatia has been abstentioned. That's a fact, I can tell you what they're called here. Therefore, I believe that this is a serious topic, a topic in which the profession should be included, surely that so far the profession has done its work, highly educated people, i.e. those who should know all of us, many of us here would not be sitting here in this Parliament, but things would go their own way and not in this bad way as we have been bored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43219	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Secretary of State Plazonic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43220	Well, I'm glad you're from the Cetina region, because I'm from there too, so we're kind of as scared of snakes and we're afraid of getting bit by them. I'm not afraid of snakes, and I'm not afraid of biting them, but in these words and these attitudes I've made, I'm going to very insist because that's my basis, I'd say, in the framework of my activities in the Ministry of Health. Could we as an individual fight abuse in some segments of this country, I don't know, but I admit I can't. The abuses are always possible, it can always happen that they will grow in one way or another, that they will try, that's possible, but we as a state, as a ministry, as a government must have our own position, which is clear and which is communicable with our entire citizenship, which is that we are against GMOs and point. And if someone's gonna abuse it, I don't know. Therefore, there will be other structures of this country of other inspection services, including those that are not inspectional but some a little stronger and stronger, and they will determine that. But we as a ministry and agriculture, and health care and government are against GMO plantings in our fields that are largely, largely abandoned, and I think if someone wants to eat healthy food, then they have to work, it's the only problem, that we have to work, we need to plant, we need to dig, we need to fertilize, we need to water, so we're all going to live healthy. If you ask me, that's what I do in my garden, in my house.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43221	And really at the end of the day, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43222	So, dear secretary, you have said that you are against breeding, or your promoter, unfortunately, in Croatia is growing GMOs, this is why Monstat's corn, MON 810, MON 863 and 725 is not prohibited in Croatia, and in most countries Europe is therefore prohibited. And this one, so you're against farming, but you're not against imports. So you are not against imports, it is very important that you have now told the Croatian public that your government and you personally support mass imports of GMOs, and also scientific experiments that study GMOs. Personally to me, you say you have a garden, and I, thank God, best to eat this import junk, but how do I know if I'm eating, GMO flour from Brazil or from Osijek? I don't see the difference, I don't really care, I don't go to Osijek, I don't get there so often, so I don't know, I won't be near those fields, but again if I eat, it comes to me the same. Now you say, no, you're not going to eat GMO meat from Požega, you're going to eat from Rio de Janeiro and it's like a big plus. GMO food should be completely banned, completely. There's no GMO food. Like Russia, period. We're not going to eat that, we're going to eat it domestically, we're going to move on to organic farming in time, and you're going to see what good it's going to be. And that we will have greater exports, and that the Ministry of Health will have far less costs, and that the village will not be destroyed, and that the farmers will be satisfied. That's your answer, not your law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43223	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43224	Here, I'm very glad you mentioned this Monsanto corn form, which you claim isn't prohibited and we haven't responded. Secondly, first of all, I didn't say in a single sentence that I was for the free import of GMO products of plant origin into the Republic of Croatia. It's a different topic, other laws, it has nothing to do with this momentary conversation that we're talking about. If you ask me personally, I'm against importing those GMOs of any product, any soy or anything else. As regards this corn, I have to read because I cannot remember all of this in early March 2016 in the official EU list, Commission Implementing Decision 2016/321 on the adaptation of the geographical area of authorisation for the cultivation of GMO corn Z maize L Monstanto 810 is published in addition to that Decision, which prohibits the cultivation of GMO corn in the seventh place. In addition to the Commission's decision, the Republic of Croatia is listed as a Member State where the sole authorised GMO of maize intended for cultivation in the EU is prohibited. Therefore, we have already reacted and banned the import of that seed into the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, we love each other in medicine, and you have seen this from a colleague of Jovanovic, to serve informational views and informational decisions. Well, before we say anything, first we take a good look at it and first we get good information, and then we just say it in public. It's our usually typical medical scientific attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43225	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met, which means most likely Friday. Tomorrow at 9.30 we will continue with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, first reading, that is Law No. 146. Good night. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-04-0.u43226	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 152. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 108 for 10 abstentions and 10 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, honourable parliamentary MPs, MPs. We continue with the session, first item: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 146 But before that, I see my hands in the air. He's a colleague of Panenic's first.
