ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56065	I would like to request a break from the chair on behalf of the MOST club of independent lists on the current political situation in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56066	You got it. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56067	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the external trade deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56068	You got it. If that's all, then we have a break until 9:00 and 45 minutes. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Representatives Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56070	Thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Do we have a vision like we imagine Croatia in 10 or 20 years? Perhaps such Croatia is somewhat different from man to man and his dreams, but I believe that the principles as we imagine that better Croatia, that different Croatia, are actually the same. I think that each of us will see it as strong, socially conscious, that we will see it effective, fair, transparent and forward-looking. Now imagine such Croatia and try to compare the image of today's Croatia and such Croatia. And does today's Croatia look like such an old man? When you fantasize about such Croatia, and I believe you have a plan to achieve such a goal, do we have a common plan for better Croatia, do we happen to have a development strategy for sectors common in Croatia? Today you have a protest outside the Ministry of Protection against TE Peru and this protest was supported by 60 top scientists and experts. Has anyone asked these experts and scientists anything before they let such a building into the market? I will not even talk about foreign policy, there is a more banal thing missing in positioning as a strategy for preserving the Croatian people in BiH, which, in foreign policy, is the most political most important thing, the most important item for the future. When you fantasize about such a Croatia, do you see it empty and or full of life? Is Croatia full of life familiar with the slogan? What people who leave Croatia, mostly Slavonians or Croats from BiH who are also moving, could say on this slogan today. After all, what is most important when you imagine such Croatia is being brought here by young or old? Alvin Toffler once wrote a hidden message that communicates to most young people from the society in which they are found is that they are not needed, that society or state itself will advance until they take over management at some distant time point in the future as an older one. But the fact is that it doesn't go so lightly and by itself, because the rest of us need all the energy, intelligence, imagination and talent that young people can give to reduce our problems. The attempt by society to solve its own desperate problems without full participation, even very young people, is impeccable. If after the whole analysis we define that we don't have a future, do we actually have freedom? Some have traded so far, even with the future, in order to have temporary security and personal benefit. Franklin once said "Those who can give up the foundation of freedom to temporarily gain protection and security deserve neither freedom nor security". And so besides these, I choose young people and professions, I choose the future, not temporary, and I support all such initiatives and youth and professions that will shake this society. Like this initiative today, "Young for BiH" does not mean that they are always absolutely right, there are things that can be changed and done, but they make the change that this society needs, that this society and its action be cleaner, to make it clearer. They're the only ones who can guarantee our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56071	Second debate of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed counterpart, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56072	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Our government has been boasting about some kind of thin growth in recent months, but at the same time it does not want to say that all that growth has been annulled by other parameters. In particular, something slightly increased our exports, but at the same time it increased imports and so we actually have an even worse situation, an even greater deficit than we had in our previous years. For example, this year, food imports increased by as much as a billion kuna or by about 10% and currently stands at 11.5 billion kuna. Croatia's negative food-export balance amounts to as much as 1 billion euros. While we are here in the Parliament for days discussing non-essential things like some eu regulations, the directive and boasting of quasi patriots, at the same time crossing tens of thousands of speedboats across the border, watch out for tens of thousands of speedboats that bring food to us of very questionable quality, which is just another indicator of the terrible results of this government's work, which in this particular case paints a picture of how national interests are betrayed. We import all kinds of things, and basically what we have and which we could produce enough tomatoes, red onions, green salad, cucumbers, peas, peppers, grapes, apples, pears, honey, there's nothing. Importing animal hair, importing moss, importing branches, importing even leaves. Is it really necessary for Croatia to import leaves? On the other hand, the orchards stand defenseless, the milkers shut down the OPGs, people even throw their fruits, or weave them because they can't get a single kuna per kilo. I can get 60, 70 lipes, and it's just not worth it. The Italians are taking the fish out of our sea, the little fish we have left, and we're taking out to import the third grade fish after that. So let's say we take the Croatian tuna out and then we import some tuna much weaker quality and much cheaper. There's a lot going on outside. Here comes our cheese for 16 kunas. Tell me how it's possible to get cheese for 16 kunas if it needs one kilo of cheese 10 liters of milk. Here comes a chicken of 12, 13 kuna, much cheaper than vegetables, a kilo of chicken is cheaper than a kilo of lemon or orange. Instead of exploiting the potentials that we have, first of all in Slavonia and Baranja, then in Lica, Bania, Dalmatia, we open the mere cuisines in Osijek, in the White monastery and in many other cities that were once a symbol of food production and if you want wealth. Instead of worrying about the quality and health of individuals, their commissions are important. In addition, the result of this situation is the sanctions of Russia that we imposed, which are completely harmful to the Republic of Croatia as well as to many EU members who can no longer sell food to Russia where they used to sell, and then that food under the force of a woman is sold somewhere, and then where it will be sold to Croatia, and in Croatia they will sell the worst goods on warehouses and there is no one else to sell it. To counter these unwanted consequences and adverse decisions, it would be important for the government to finally take some concrete steps, and that is, above all, reducing VAT to food to 5% to 8% as it is in neighbouring countries, so that our people do not go across the border to shopping. It is necessary to systematically work on the construction of warehouses, refrigerators and plastics, to organise a state purchase of agricultural products where possible, then demining Croatia within the deadline and we have seen that the deadline was 2009, now it is due 2019, at the end of the day will be due because the interesting lobbys again have to rob the budget. It is also very important to declare an economic belt on the Adriatic, prohibit the import of GMOs and systematically break up food purchasers' monopolies and especially import lobbys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56073	So we've exhausted today's debate after a break, so we're moving on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56074	Here, Agent Pernar wants a break, here you go. You can do it now. Is it your theme?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56075	The esteemed chairman of the break is on the subject of journalist Hrvoje Bajl from Zadar, who was sued by Renata Peroš from the Zadar Museum and asked him for, I don't know, more than 2,000 kn and I'd like to talk about it after the break. So I'm looking for a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56076	Can you do it now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56077	No, I'm looking for a 10-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56078	Okay. Then we'll continue in 10 minutes, at 16.40 hours. Thank you. It's 4:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56079	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16,40 HOURS]] According to which key he was employed there to overexplain it, it is clear that those educated for the job could not get that job and waiter David Ricov did. The question is, is there a problem with him being a waiter? No, I don't. The problem is not that, the problem is that the Zadar Museum is led by Renate Peroš, in an unusual, at least non-transparent way of hiring people. However, the story of David Ricov does not end there, he was reported to live on Ugljan, in the address of Brodarica 3. Why does it matter? It is important because David Ricov of his employer, meaning the Zadar Museum, was compensated for travel expenses from Coal even though he did not live there. In other words, he stole the state institution. But not only did he steal it, but at the same time he was reported to live on Ugljan, he actually lived in the city apartment of Zadar. What was that about? The point is that Mary Ivanov, former Rickov, means his mother got from the city of Zadar to use an apartment with a rent of 162 kuna and 65 limes. In other words, his mother got an apartment from the city, but she didn't use it because she obviously didn't need it. But the city of Zadar did not break the contract with her, she left it to her son David Ricov, who continued to use it for that miserable amount and lived in a city apartment in Zadar for 162 kuna. At the same time, he was taking from Coal a fee for the cost of transport, which he was not entitled to and exploited both the museum and the city. Why? Because David Ricov is not a social case that would need a city apartment or in any way be in debt to the city of Zadar or Croatia or anyone else. What I can tell you is that... The only public performance known to him is the one that was looked at by 50,000 people, a performance in which he shoots and throws food, and that is one disgusting spectacle or nakaradan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about the spine, and now imagine, on the one hand, there are really socially endangered families in Zadar who may not have a job well, etc., and on the other hand, David Ricov's arrests that are being thrown away by food and who are riding on travel expenses, who live in a city apartment for miserable money. And that person who's protecting David Ricov, that's Renata Perosh, who's the head of the Zadar Museum there. When the journalist Hrvoje Bajlo revealed actually this whole crime that is happening there, from the nepotism that is let's say nepotism is the thing that someone tends to someone who is close to him, but this is about one crazy nepotism because David Ricov is a waiter, so he has no criteria by which he might be employed in that museum unless of course he works if the museum is a cafe, restaurant or whatever. And sued Hrvoje Bajl, Renata Peroš for 220,000 kuna along with the museum, and I think it's a shame, that this is a coup against freedom of speech and that he actually wants to silence Hrvoje Bajl and this way I am giving him absolute support in the fight against corrupt individuals and corrupt justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u56080	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63912	So we've exhausted today's debate after a break, so we're moving on to the agenda. First, as I said: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on construction products, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 198. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the esteemed Željko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63913	... Mr. President. [[Specially enabled.]] The proposed amendments and additions to the Construction Products Act bring our country into line with EU legislation and introduces additional improvements seen in the application of the existing law. The applicable law on construction products is governed by two areas of construction products. The harmonised area is the area of trade in construction products for which harmonised rules are laid down by Council Regulation 305/2011. and the non-compliant area of construction products is the area of trade in construction products for which there are no harmonised rules, but every EU Member State at national level prescribes its own rules on trade in construction products. In view of the fact that two amendments to the regulation occurred during 2014, the home regulation governing the area of trade in construction products 305>/2011. There's been an approach to making and changing this law. The adoption and proposal intends to provide for the following. Therefore, the first implementation of the amendment to the regulation for a harmonised area of construction products, then the non-compliant area of construction products, in the part of the law, which is regulated in the same way as for trade in construction products from a harmonised area, is harmonised with the amendments to that Regulation. The process of notifying the notified bodies to the European Commission will then be accelerated in such a way that the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning will carry out an application for the enforcement of the solution adopted by the notified body for the implementation of certain actions carried out during the production of the construction product, not as so far as it is entitled to do so. Furthermore, the period of validity of the solution adopted by the notified or approved bodies in such a way as to extend the solutions to the current law, the construction products had a period of validity of up to 6 years and these amendments to the laws of the period of validity of the solution shall be extended until the expiry of the request. The process of carrying out the third party’s tasks is simplified in such a way that the approved body no longer has to repeat the examination of the construction product carried out during the preparation of the Croatian Technical Assessment. This will provide economic operators with simpler and faster trade procedures for construction products. For the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional resources and we propose to our Croatian Parliament to accept and adopt these reasons necessary for amending and supplementing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63914	Thank you, we don't have a replica, so I'd like to just ask the committee's rapporteur if she might take the floor? If not, then we move on to the debate, the first is the club of HDZ representatives and respected counterpart Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63915	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal for the Construction Products Act. I would only briefly mention that when we talk about construction products that the construction product is actually a product or assembly that has been produced and placed on the market to be permanently installed in a building or parts of it and whose properties have an impact on the property of the building. According to the Construction Products Act adopted in 2013 and amended in 2014, two areas of construction products were defined, a harmonised and non-compliant area, which was subject to different rules under the existing law. With this draft law, we are in practice harmonising both the conduct and the part relating to the non-compliant area of construction products for which Member States themselves prescribe their installation, trade, etc., and those that are harmonised, whose rules apply to the whole of Europe. Since this is the second reading, if we had given our position in the first reading, I would have just said a few things that are still here, I would have taken advantage of the opportunity to have Mr. Deputy Minister there, so I would suggest that when we talk about the activity of the building, I also mentioned the House Loan Subsidisation Act that we have brought for 2017 and which law is practically foreseen only in 2017, I use the opportunity, I am... as the ministry also started in 2018 because it showed the extremely high interest of many young people in the Republic of Croatia in order to resolve its housing issue in this way, as according to the ministry and according to the APN's record in that law, over 2,000 apartments were resolved in a very short time, which means that an exceptional interest was expressed in the first row of young Croatian citizens, it would be good for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the resolution ministry to go with the law in order to continue in 2018 with the very implementation of the Law on subsidisation of residential loans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the sale of the facility not only solves the sale of dwellings under the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, it also helps the construction sector and, as we can see, there is a chronic lack of workers in the construction sector. These days, the government has made a decision that allows me to think of about 10,000, nearly 11,000 work permits for the work of foreigners right in construction, and I believe that with this one system of building apartments, by encouraging construction on the one hand, on the other hand, demographic measures and by helping young people come faster to their apartments, we will also enable them to solve one of the most important issues of their lives. I think that one system can very much help the whole construction sector, but this is another question, as far as the law goes, the HDZ club will certainly support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63916	Thank you. The second is the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU, a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63917	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with the assistant. The club of representatives of GLAS and HSU will support the amendments and additions of the Construction Products Act and allow a few words on the subject. So in this House, really some time with a little bit more elan, another time with a little less elan, discussing different topics and different topics get different attention. When it comes to this kind of technical law, it somehow goes under the radar and here, regardless of which side of this assembly, left, right or center, about when you see that screen, then it greens out because we know that it is a law that we are actually regulating a particular problem related to the EU and a particular problem related to Croatia and we are harmonising a particular area. However, this law is an excellent example of what it looks like and what it looked like to comply with EU legislation and an excellent example to see that EU legislation also has certain problems. This in the context of this because when it comes to elections in Croatia, then those elections for the EU Parliament get the least of the attention, goes under the radar, and it is extremely important that colleagues representing the Croatian interests in the EU Parliament really be the best team that Croatia can propose, but what is important is that both our Parliament and our executive power continuously participates in working with Europarliamentarians for a simple reason because when something comes to the vote there, everything is over. What exactly am I talking about? I am talking about that the first amendment was to comply with EU legislation when Croatia entered the EU and we did it a lot, I would say strictly from certain concerns and EU directives we were sort of literally interpreting, literally translating from fear that we were wrong. In 2014 and the EU made certain changes, certain changes related to regulations for a simple reason. In particular, when it comes to any product and construction product, legislation should not be seen as being carved into stone and not changing. The world is changing, industry is changing, technology is changing, and construction products are changing. And as far as I know, certain regulations and certain changes are still defined. Croatia has decided on the next model. You have a coordinated area. This is the area where you use and, in fact, EU legislation, everything is in line with these options. For the simple reason they are products, which are products throughout the EU. You have a non-harmonised area and we've decided and I think it's a good thing that we decided to define it as harmonised, for the simple reason, that all the topics, all the dilemmas, all the questionnaires, that you have above your head, are thus smaller and simpler. What you have in real life is the next case. Not long ago, it was recently a construction product, where a company that works in the Croatian area went to the competition and in the competition it received that this product will be edited by a company registered in Croatia. However, the contract she concluded concluded with a company from one of our neighbouring countries, which decided to introduce the product from Turkey. The product entered Croatia, a company registered in Croatia, was supposed to install it, looked at it, and said I am sorry, I will not do it for a simple reason, which this product does not have an appropriate certificate in the EU area. Of course all the passions got mixed up and, of course, it started to be called phones. However, these were clear and consistent, and this product will pass the certification of the relevant authorities in charge of this in Croatia and if it is certified to meet EU standards, this product will be installed. And that's the meaning of this law and that's the sense of regulation. And that's the point of actually making sure that those products that are built in are products that are worth in the EU as a whole. However, you always have a number of problems here and there, these problems need to be come up with in the best, inappropriate way, and that seems to be the case. I am sure that in one year, two, this law will again experience, some changes and additions, for the simple reason, which are also the EU directives, changing. Equally, one good-looking story, and it's always convenient to tell that story, because then together maybe we all understand the whole problem better. This has also been related to a product that has been imported from EU countries. But as we have two climate zones, one is continental, the other is Mediterranean. What's true in the Mediterranean is not valid in the continental part, because in the Mediterranean there are certain winds and there's no snow, at least until recently there wasn't this weekend as far as I know it was snowing in Pula. But the joke aside, but in the continental part of Croatia there are different conditions. So, Croatia has yet to be specific, not to talk about earthquake zones and I as an architect, when I look at dogs being built somewhere in the north of Norway and Finland, then it all looks great and I always wondered why it can't do that in Croatia. It can't be because of certain earthquake zones. So Croatia has its specifics. This law is a good law. He regulated the best ways to problem construction products. It's a good thing we've liberalized some of it, because we like to be strict. It's when you take any law and when you see anything, we love you to be strict, we like to be even in one part, I'd say exclusive. But then the thing happens to you is that when you're like that, you don't apply it, and then you have some high-ranking officials, they say from the pay phones, so somebody doesn't really apply. I think it's incomparably better, that we have more specific provisions, that we have a little more liberal provisions, that we give opportunity to our, our, our owners and all those in the building area to breathe. I'm always talking about the scope of construction for the simple reason, which is the area for which I've been educated and in which I work my whole life in one way or another, and that's why I care about that area. As my colleague Bačić, when he spoke of this law, went one step further and expanded the discussion a little, I will allow myself to expand a little. So construction is an area that first feels recession. Equally, construction is an area that first senses that one state has exited the recession or is leaving the recession. At the moment when the entire area of construction was no longer in the downfall, it was around zero there were indicators, that certain things in Croatia were still moving. However, construction is an excellent picture of the situation we have in Croatia. Sometimes when I was a young engineer, really, the construction sites were running, the good ones I wouldn't say masters, let's just say with medium professional equipment, people who were full of experience in that power, and equally if I went back to history, our construction sector was very respectable compared to Germany, where absolutely, especially our masters were perfectly accepted. And not to say, it was in North Africa or Russia. Now we have a new situation. We have a situation, that again, our builders, especially the army and carpenters, are getting a job outside or leaving Croatia. But we have another case, that we base construction workers don't. We're importing, not additional knowledge, so, armymen, carpenters, roofers, stoners, we're importing basic labor, auxiliary, auxiliary builders, auxiliary labor, and we don't have it. And when I see that it moves and re-connected to energy efficiency, so it will go, someone can slow down, someone can think a little bit, one way or the other, it will go for the simple reason that the whole of the EU and all the countries recognize that it is the potential of development. Not only in the sense that houses look nice, but what's much more important is that energy efficiency is less CO2, that people pay less for energy, that less energy is used and that domestic labour is employed. When the first energy efficiency projects went, there was not a single Croatian company that was willing to apply at all for these projects. Now they're up to something, and as far as I know, they're really applying something more. However, a key question arises as to who will work. We won't have the workforce to do it, and that's a big problem, and we need to deal with that problem. We're going to have regulations, we're going to have strategies, we're going to have action plans, we're going to have good projects, we're going to have good competitions, we're going to be able to withdraw EU funding from the EU. It's always a matter of percentage whether in this or that percentage, but the key question is who's going to do it. I'll finish the discussion with this. There are relatively few of us because the subject is not so receptive that we can discuss some other things here. But this law regardless, it's one technical law correctly made. It is shown that the EU is working, it is shown that Croatia is doing it, it is shown that at the beginning you are very careful and you do not dare to go a little more liberally than it is. At the moment you have the law in place, when you see you can do it, you have to experience it with some other countries. But I did use this time to ask us all a question. We will have everything from legislation to projects, to application from countries, or from EU funds. It's a question of who's going to work. It's a simple question. This year, 4 children were enrolled in all construction schools throughout Croatia for laying ceramic tiles. The question is who's going to do it in the future and that's the question that we have to ask you in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63918	Thank you. We move on to the next SDP representative club and respected colleague Vedran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63919	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to go a little bit further away from the topic of debate here just so I don't want to replicate it, but I'm going to supplement myself, and I'm going to rely on what my colleague Mrak-Taritash said. We should also be honest with ourselves that it means during the Socialist Republic of Croatia when Croatia was one of the strongest if not the strongest republic regarding the construction sector. I don't have to list hydropower, industrial engineering, technique, etc. Most of the labour force was not from Croatia, but from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and not to count further. So that's not the problem since yesterday. Of course, by seeking greater education, these interests become unpopular, and at this very moment I simply see the only solution that the government has unfortunately proposed to ensure quotas for the labour force to be imported. As regards the Construction Products Act, it regulates the technical characteristics, assessment of conformity and proof of the usability of construction products as conditions for their placing on the market, distribution, use to the extent necessary to meet the essential requirements for the construction of certain specific regulations. Furthermore, the law regulates the implementation of administrative and other procedures, as well as the rights and obligations of the public administration body, legal and natural persons. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction Products is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. In particular, Regulation No 764/2008 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 lays down procedures relating to the application of certain national, technical provisions on products legally placed on the market in another Member State by Regulation No 765/2008 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008. It is decided to establish the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance in relation to the placing on the market of products in these Regulations. The previous ones that have defined the same topic are also removed. Regulation No 305/2011 lays down the conditions for the placing on the market of construction products and amendments to the Annexes of that Regulation and to the Commission's EU Regulation of February 2014 settles the question of the assessment and verification of the properties of construction products and of the template for drawing up a declaration in the property of construction products. As it is essentially a matter of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and of not requiring specific costs to implement the same law, the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63920	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one's a respected colleague of Bacic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63921	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Babic, you mentioned the strength of the construction sector in Croatia during the former state, and you also mentioned where the labour force was coming from in construction. I would say that construction until the start of the crisis in the Republic of Croatia was an extremely large sector because every ten employees in Croatia came from construction. There were about 140 people there say at the best time in 2008, 150,000 construction workers, so that by the end of 2015, or by the time I got out of the crisis somewhere around 50,000 employees went missing, the construction sector went away. We know that most importantly, the largest Croatian construction companies were practically on their knees, and many ended up in bankruptcy. Since here for a while this construction sector is slowly recovering, we will easily get to the equipment, and we will easily get to all that is needed to restore construction, but the biggest problem remains the labour problem. And that's where I agree with you. There is a lack of quality labour force, a lack of qualified labour force, so this decision the government made a few days ago that allows about 10,000 work permits to speak well about the state of labour in Croatia. Is it underpaid, whether people who were qualified in construction went outside of Croatia, the fact is that we are lacking labour in Croatia today and need to be taken as soon as possible by systematic measures, I call on the ministry, the systematic measures to enable quality labour to be found in the Republic of Croatia through education We also heard the information that [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] I'm going to finish how few young people enrolled in high school because it's obviously not very interesting working in construction. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague BAčić.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63922	Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63923	Comrade Bacic, I agree absolutely with everything you've replicated. It is definitely necessary to connect both the market and the education of future students and simply perhaps even work on popularising these I would say some basic occupations of the secondary school itself, craftsmanship and in this respect go on. In the first place I thought that we had good basics about knowledge, it was in the first place our building, architectural, geodetic college, and we have when we look through history and some achievements that were the concepts both in Europe and in the world, the Krski bridge, the biggest wooden dome, we have a good base, the problems were before we didn't have a lot of workers and it was a finding, but the fact is that... the big construction works from 30 years ago today and even at this time when construction was growing up it wasn't easy. It doesn't mean anything at all, it's just a finding, but here's the point of introducing labour as well as Western countries importing so unfortunately we have to or fortunately, we have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63924	Second replica, dear fellow Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63925	Thank you very much. Well, you may have opened up your colleague, Mrak-Taritash, one crucial question. And I may say something that may seem blasphemous to some, but in many discussions about schooling in Croatia, you simply haven't heard anywhere that at this time, and that is definitely when you talk to any economicist by various professions so many and so many people are missing. Has anyone made any plan for us over the next five or ten years to enter certain professional professions so that Croatia can grow economically tomorrow because if you have no one to lean on, then you can't even work because there is no one to work on. Also another very important thing, formerly large construction giants in the Republic of Croatia had also open facilities that were involved in the production of construction materials. I'm just going to take an example of the Industrial Construction that had one phenomenal iso carpentry, which may have been one of the best in Europe, today that drive unfortunately doesn't exist. But it was known that the market was going 12cm, installing into apartments that Industries did a few thousand a year, and when they put it all in jutura, you could sell what was for the market and you covered this. And not to say that these plants have opened in areas that are unfortunately empty today in Croatia because natural raw materials are used to produce certain construction materials that you can't find 100m from Ban Jelačić Square but are located elsewhere. So it's a very layered story and I'm going to end up with, unfortunately, an expansion in the road construction in low-building destroyed the high-rise construction. You in Croatia today may not have one or two companies that are able to take a job and make 500 apartments at once. And that is our truth, and we must finally speak of it first and foremost of all in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63926	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63927	My colleague, I also agree with you. You said the essence at the beginning of your replica. The fact is that we are a small country and should be dynamic, adapt to trends both in Croatia and in Europe and the world. Unfortunately, we're not, it's the obligation in the first place right now on your back because you run the country or your option, but we're here to help with smart suggestions and certainly to start reforming education. It is definitely the cornerstone of the development of this society and the resolution of all the problems we are now facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63928	We don't have any more replicas, so we're going finally on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Zeljko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63929	Honorable MPs, MPs. I thank you for today's debate and for seeing and expressing your satisfaction with this law. As it was in the first reading, it proved that there were no additional changes between the two readings, and I would point out once again that with these amendments other than what Europe is changing in its regulations, we have improved our legislation in the part in which we are not dependent on Europe. So we accelerated procedures, shortened some procedures and simplified the application of our products to the EU. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63930	Thank you, too. I hereby conclude the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on construction products, second reading, P.Z. No. 198, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction Products, please vote. I also find that this law has received the support of all MPs, therefore, has been adopted unanimously, with 122 votes. And that means the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction Products has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63933	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. You have a new Strategic Investment Projects Act ahead of you. At first, allow an explanation for the new law. The scope of the changes introduced only by this amendment would not in itself require a new law but since the law has already been amended twice, then the total volume of amendments to the original law on 25 October required the adoption of a new law. The law in front of you is a law which, as well as the original law adopted in 2013 essentially prescribes one accelerated, more rapid procedure and support of state bodies to investors during the process of preparing an investment project. The existence of this law is an expression of the indisputable fact that the normal system, a system established in both the institutional framework and the legislative framework, which regulates all those procedures that the investor needs to carry out to prepare the project, is a system whose functioning and effectiveness are not satisfied. To say in, I could say in a transitional period until the institutional and legislative system reaches the level of effectiveness we want to overcome this problem then we have a law like this before us. A law that foresees procedures in its essence and foresees the support of various state administrations to investors in large investment projects during the preparation of their project. This law introduces several newspapers into the existing legislative solution that we believe will further improve and strengthen this legislative framework for investors, make it simpler and make it more attractive for what we really want for private investment. In fact, in the current application of the law to the list of strategic investment projects, 29 of them have been included since the adoption of the law in 2013 and 17 of the projects have been declared strategic by the Government. These 17 projects, which were declared strategic in 2017, were declared strategic 11 and 14 on the list itself. I think these data also show that in both the previous period and the application and this legislative framework were slow. We made an effort during this year to speed up this application. But what remains as one conclusion, as a clear picture, is that the largest number of projects included on the list or declared strategic are actually state projects, projects funded by states from different sources and very few private investment projects. I believe, therefore, that these changes that are proposed here will help make this process more attractive for private investors and achieve its goal, which is to speed up the preparation of private investors' projects or improve Croatia's attractiveness as an investment destination. Therefore, what is proposed as a newspaper by this law and what is a newspaper in relation to existing provisions is to reduce the value of projects that can apply for and run for both a list of strategic projects and just a declaration of strategic projects. The value is reduced from the current 150 to 75 million kuna, or in the island area from 20 to 10 million kuna. The amount and the manner in which the investor submits evidence that he has secured sources of financing is also redefined. So far, the investor has been obliged to prove either in the form of a bank guarantee, whether in the form of an armed deposit, that it has pre-secured and reserved funds of 10% of the total value of the project. Issuing a secure deposit or a bank guarantee is a cost and we believe that it was one of the biggest reasons why this was not attractive to private investors. Therefore, this obligation is now redefined in a way that, if the investor is to be obliged to provide the bank's confirmation, he has secured financial assets at a specific account of at least 5% of the project's value or is required to provide a letter of intent to prove the bank's willingness to finance the project or prove that the project itself has already been prepared and realised the funds corresponding to 5% of the project's value. Thus far, regardless of how much the investor has invested in the preparation of the project, for example. the purchase of land or other costs already incurred has not been recognised as evidence of the seriousness of the investment. These changes are also proposed to redefine the way state properties are available. The current and current law allowed the Republic of Croatia, for the purpose of implementing a strategic investment project, to agree with the investor directly on the use of land or sell land directly to the investor by means of a direct contract. This prompted the current law whether some investors only appeared for its application and only to come to the possibility of buying from the country directly by means of a contract, from the state buying some building land. Therefore, in order to remove this uncertainty and to eliminate such fear, it is proposed that a different way of making available to real estate for the implementation of a private strategic investment project in such a way that, if the investor asks the Government to sell the state property or state land necessary for the implementation of the strategic project, then, in the case of that state land, less than 50% of the total area necessary for the implementation of the investment, it is possible to conclude a direct contract but that contract must be concluded at market value, according to the assessment of the court and the sea, I repeat, to make less than 50% of the scope necessary for the implementation of the project. If the investor has a need to use and ask the state to sell him more than 50% of the total volume, then such state land can be sold, or only available through a public tender. Which means that by adopting these amendments and supplementing them, it would no longer be possible for the implementation of the project of the entire building land to be obtained by using a direct contract than by direct contract could be discussed and could be provided for the availability and use of less than 50% of the total area needed for the implementation of the project. We believe that such a solution is effective and encouraging enough to implement projects and remove one part of the issue and one part of the concerns that have arisen in implementing existing provisions and one uncertainty whether the investor is applying only and solely for the sake of the possibility to implement a direct contract or its investment intentions are much more serious. Furthermore, this law proposes that the existing obligation to sign an agreement between investors and the Ministry of Economy which was reached after the government had decided to declare the project strategic, that the obligation to sign the agreement and regulate mutual obligations between investors and the ministry would be made and implemented before the government makes a decision and between the moment the Commission proposes that the project be declared strategic and the moment when the Government makes the decision, which means that such an agreement would be an integral part of the government's decision to declare a particular project strategic. And finally, the last major change that I would like to mention is that the list of strategic projects includes the projects included in the European list of projects of common interest, i.e. PCI projects in the field of energy. Namely, this obligation to include energy projects included in the European list of projects of common interest will also automatically be included in our list of strategic investment projects stemming from regulations that regulate the European list of projects of common interest and thus will ensure that the infrastructure that is monitored and necessary for the implementation of projects included in the list of projects of common European interest also gets appropriate strategic treatment in Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63934	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. We've got three replicas, first of all, a respected colleague of the Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63935	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, here's the interesting thing you've said about this whole law at the very end of your presentation, and in this bill, it's at the very beginning. So specifically on page 4, and I really must admit that practically beyond this page 4 this law is not even worth reading further for a simple reason because it is just amazing that what the European funds finance to automatism is declared by the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. I really don't understand how anything can, which comes from the outside to be automated, declared a Croatian national interest? This is really not clear to me because, among other things, not only are all Croatian laws being violated, but the Constitution is being violated at the same time by the Archduke Convention and national security is being threatened. So I simply don't understand how it is possible for Croatia or this Parliament or government, anyone else, to have no insurance instrument from the projects that the EU is sending us. So Eu can literally send us whatever he wants and we can't discuss it, we can't refuse it, we can't analyze it, we can't check it, we can control it. So the only way to resist the potentially harmful decisions that will come from this law is to reject this law. So this law must not be passed at least not in this form. So my main grudge is going towards how is it possible that something that has been prescribed by the EU becomes an obligation in Croatia automatically? I don't think it's on the defense of national sovereignty, or that it's more like leading colonialism to a small door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63936	Thank you. Answer to the line, Your Honors Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63937	Thank you very much. Well, this is possible because Croatia has become a member of the EU after long negotiations and its own decision and it is also possible because the inclusion of projects on the list of common interests is taking place on the initiative of the Member State. Therefore, in order for a project to be included in a list of projects of common interest, it must be proposed by a Member State and must have the support of another Member State. That means for now, 2 are for example. Croatian projects included in that list, it is a LNG terminal and recently updated from the November list, a gas pipeline network that connects this LNG terminal to the rest of Europe. By including, of course, Member States have an interest in proposing the inclusion of projects on this list, because projects on this list then also run for funding from funds not only provided through European funds, but also exist at EU level, and make up, of course, additional funding available for the financing of projects on our territory, as has been done, as has been obtained in 1/3 of the total investment costs for LNG terminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63938	Second replica, dear fellow Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63939	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President of the Government, therefore, you said that in 2013, the first Strategic Investment Act came in, however, honestly looking at the past 4 years, there has been no significant strategic investment. Also, you said, one very important thing, which is that the biggest strategic investment, is practically about investors who are tied to the state, whether in majority or minority ownership. So I remember that somewhere in 2013, we raised the price of electricity by 25% to increase the investment potential of HEP. Unfortunately, in the most interesting sector, nothing happened at this point for investment. And now I'm asking a normal question. With all the changes you've listed, which should make life easier for potential investors. With what happens in Croatia every day, as soon as someone tries to invest something, someone pulls a hand brake. What is actually happening in Croatia is why private and foreign investors are bypassing us first. Even in areas that are interesting, I primarily think about tourism, energy, and other sectors. The more that in certain areas, there is, I say, an industrial polluted space, so there have been huge industrial plants there since the weekends, today these spaces are empty. And it's very interesting that no private investor will stick to one such area and practically come to invest there. I think that's the way to think and think, because what's been going on for the past four years, this government just can't afford such a luxury. That the next 4 years, if the state doesn't invest, practically no private investor will come. If the state investment is good, it will, in a certain way, attract one large private investor, and then automatically generate a series of other smaller and better investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63940	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63941	Thank you very much. Well clearly, one of the important issues that we are dealing with is why private investors, whether domestic or foreign, are not deciding to invest and launch and significant projects and projects of greater value to the extent that we would like to do so and, in fact, to the extent that we are assessing, to offer these investment opportunities in Croatia. It is certain that we can say, and there are probably a few answers and we could divide into several groups and probably not exhaust them, but what I would like to highlight, and what from several examples of investment projects, where investors have given up, and unfortunately demand and certain damage from the Republic of Croatia, in international arbitration courts, is actually the consistency or more accurate lack of consistency in the application of our own legislative framework. Unfortunately, a number of investors or a number of investors, who, abroad, have a recognizable name, gave up after a longer period of time, an attempt to invest in Croatia. And for reasons why changes to the rules, even changes to the interpretation of laws, appeared to them and showed them as an insurmountable investment obstacle. So in some of these cases, it's not just, it's not even about changing the rules, it's about changing the way, how the same regulations were interpreted by different state institutions over time. That's not good. And that is something that this government wants to avoid by insisting on both the stability of the environment and the proper and consistent application of the legal rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63942	Please, let's just stick to the weather. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63943	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored Deputy Prime Minister. So, I support the adoption of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, for the reason that its adoption does not derivate the specific laws that are on... the way they touch a particular strategic investment project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when it comes to the Law on concessions, and when it comes to the Law on Maritime Good, the Law on Environmental Protection, the Act on Nature Protection, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. It's the only thing this law requires in all these shelters is to get rid of it faster, by emergency procedure. It is particularly important what I agree with, which is that the law must be consistent with spatial planning documents, which are brought by units of local self-government. And the strategic investment project cannot be beyond what is defined by business planning documentation. In that sense, Art. 28. in a specific way, facilitates the strategic investment project faster realization. So here, since this is the Law that is in the second reading, it would be good to see how and in what way possible doubts that are even discussed with the public interest are presented, and in the section relating to the space-planned lower order documents that do not need to be dealt with in order to speed up the realisation of a particular strategic investment project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63944	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63945	As I pointed out in the opening statement, at least I personally experience this law and as a law which essentially covers one period in which we are still not satisfied with the effectiveness and effectiveness of the functioning of the entire institutional and legislative framework and the way it is applied in the national administration. We simply address a slowness that is not acceptable, we address sometimes inefficient administrative procedures. What the investor has received from this law so far, will also receive in the future, will receive an operational group consisting of precisely identified names and last names of persons who are then obliged to provide the investor with support and advice and explanation and explanation and sometimes knocking on the door of individual institutions, to obtain the necessary permits in fact in a manner and in accordance with the overall and other regulations that regulate it. Therefore, it is not an idea, as you have rightly noted, that this law delegates existing laws, that the existing provisions or in any other way favours any investor. The idea of this law is to create a mechanism that will actually improve the efficiency of the work of institutions, in a certain way encourage institutions and gradually lead them to the point that in the same way as this law does in its usual and everyday subversive manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63946	The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the representatives of the board like to give an explanation? If not, then we'll move on to the debate. The first came from a club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists and respected counterpart Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63947	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I also welcome Madam Deputy Prime Minister with an associate. I, of course, welcome all my colleagues and fellow MPs. So, the Strategic Investment Act. The task of this law is clear, therefore, to facilitate the implementation of investments, especially those considered, so that the strategic ones do not remove the obstacles that exist on the road, so from ideas and ideas to the realization of projects, of course, what is holding the economy back. And it is in the interest of each country to eliminate such obstacles, or to reduce them naturally not in a way that compromises the procedure or to skip some important steps. In itself, it is clear that it should be supported, but I would draw attention to an important thing that I am afraid sometimes to get out of sight, which is to talk about strategic projects. So strategic projects and the word itself says that they should be very strong in line with national interests. And in fact, it is nice and it is, of course, in the law that these criteria are necessary for the project to be able to carry such an epithet of strategy, i.e. in a procedural sense, it could be assigned such treatment. So, we're talking about hiring more people, so we're talking about employment. To contribute to development, to improve the conditions and standards for the production of certain products, to introduce new technologies, to have an epithet and to raise the safety and quality of life of citizens and to protect the environment. Then, to contribute to sustainable development and the protection of space and the environment, it is again cited, and to raise the competitiveness of the economy, i.e. strengthening the economy in a broader sense. So these are all important criteria and it would be very important to be sure that when a particular project is found on the list of strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia, it is undoubtedly carrying some of these important properties. At the end of that article, the criteria are finally cited again, in fact, the conditions for granting formal conditions. They concern compliance with spatial-planning documentation. They also concern the size of the investment, because obviously size is also important. So, the sum of money is about the possibility of co-financing from the European, from EU projects. And, of course, they mention assisted areas. I would now turn away, given that I was also a minister and was involved in the work of the commission that was considering these strategic projects. I must admit that, in particular, by looking at the list of projects that were previously classified on this list, I was consterned with the quality of these projects. And the most common thing to notice is that the only thing that really matters is the size of an investment. So that certain major tourist procedures that may be possible by hiring a larger number of people in the course of the season. But it's about three months, and the rest of the months are very low, so it's very hard to find which of the other conditions is satisfied here. I am not saying that such projects should not, however, be allowed, to be easily named strategically for such individual procedures in the area that are most often contrary to sustainable environmental and space management as indicated here. Let's say, I suggest that those who make those decisions think a little bit about it. Also on the list could be found, for example, county or regional waste management centres. Look, apart from maybe the new technology that is actually saying nothing special because such a concept collapses a number of other important criteria of sustainable development, employment opportunities, contradictions or conflict with other more important goals that the Republic of Croatia has put before it, so I couldn't possibly find an explanation for such a single procedure. Therefore, I believe that the Government has the intention of dealing with the very criteria that it will take into account the more quality of these properties that are necessary to make something truly strategic for the Republic of Croatia. I think that given the situation in which the Republic of Croatia finds that one important criterion should certainly have an impact on demographics because our situation today in 2017 is in the end such that it may be the first strategic interest or any project concerned, of course, these are investments, and there are measures, but the very investments that would have a positive impact on the tendency of young people to stay, on the tendency of young people to base families here. So here's why I won't last any longer because I think it's time for all of us to be precious. Here I am ending up with this observation and I suggest, please, the responsible to deal with the criteria more strongly when defining strategic projects in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63948	Thank you. We're going to a second debate, a club of GLASs and HSU representatives respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63949	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected vice president with an associate. Let me start off with one sentence. We very rarely have a chance when it comes to some law that we have a minister or minister, so every time I have the need to stress the satisfaction when the law personally resolutes the minister or minister, for the simple reason that I read two messages. One message is that this House is appreciated, and another message is that it is an extremely important law and that it wants to stand itself to show that it is behind this law. When it comes to the Strategic Investments Act, it's good to go in two readings, and there's always a first reading that should open up some topics and some dilemmas, the fact is that in this high home, respected colleagues and colleagues, somehow different and some laws get a little more attention, and some less. I appreciate that this is an extremely important law, the GLAS and HSU club will support it in its first reading, and if there are any more changes between the two readings, it will be more good. What we need to know is that history is the teacher of life. This isn't the first time we have one law like this, so if we all remember it well together when we were preparing the World Handball Championship, then we had a special law regarding building a hall, is that it was the only way we could respect the deadline. Equally in 2013, we went to bring in a Strategic Investments Act, then the public was quite sensitized, it was said that they wanted to kidnap water, forests, natural resources on their feet were all up and it was not so. However, you should always look at a little of what other countries are doing. Other countries have really different experiences. At that law in 2013, which had a different fate and finally came to the Parliament not the proposal that was meant to go with, but it was another story and some other anecdotes, then myself who I worked in one part went to see what other countries were doing, so it would be good for us to know that other countries also have problems, that other countries are trying to solve their problems in different ways. So believe it or not, Switzerland, which we are all convinced is a well-organised state, that there is no problem, that there was one part that was demographically going the problem, is economically lower than other parts of Switzerland, and the Swiss at the time had one provision that foreign investments, so foreign investment cannot be in Switzerland. What did Switzerland do? It has passed a special law only for that part under certain criteria as to how it can be invested, because that is how they wanted to be encouraged and invested. Then Slovenia, Slovenia also had a special law for a particular part, we dare not at all come to say that for some part of Croatia we have a special law, Hungary too. Now we come to a country called Croatia. No matter how many years I've worked on different jobs, and it's always been about some investments because the investors came and they wanted to know what was in the spatial plan. And now what I could say to my experiences is this, investors who absolutely respect all the procedures in their countries, do not think they respect something when they cross the border, regardless of what we are in the EU, they immediately start some other game rules. And it's not their fault, it's our fault. It's our fault for the simple reason that no one can say with certainty that one law that's worth this year will be worth another year. We often change particularly tax-related laws, and that is where we really have to bear the blame for us and the absolute investors who are coming. They even want some kind of hodogram. But the worst thing that can happen to you is that when an investor comes in and we can say it in such a sport dictionary that he thinks he's playing basketball and you're finally telling him that he was playing handball or vice versa, that's something that can't happen. And now we come up with a key question of what we really want in Croatia. What kind of strategic projects do we want? How do we want to define them? Do we want to define them at the level of the state, at the level of the region, at the level of the county, at the level of one municipality and of the city? For one municipality is a strategic project to build a water network. For one city is a strategic project to build one, one production zone. For countries that are strategic projects and which are the key 3, 4, 5 areas for which this country has decided to be important, to develop and to invest further? Is that energy? So let's agree on some three areas, whether it's energy, whether it's drug production and whether it's tourism and then define which are three projects and what are strategic projects. I am equally in this commission which the Deputy Prime Minister mentioned participated. And you get a little bit of strength when you see project content, when you see project documentation, when you see a series of things because there are, I'd say three important topics to discuss. The law says the procedure, this law says a list of strategic projects will be defined, this law says all other regulations will be respected. And this law says that certain things will go according to emergency procedures, i.e. that in the ministries as central authorities of the state administration there will be people who will be in charge of monitoring certain projects and that is the case now. I'm sure it may be necessary to define really strategic projects by some other, by territorial things in general by the messages they carry. But now that I've started talking about it, my idea was the problems we have. And this law will show what problems we have. Unfortunately, he won't give a solution either. The first problem we have, and this is the minister's opening statement, said the problem with land and the problem absolutely several times with this pay phone, and I also said, the problem of the unsettled land books, the problem of the unsettled catastra, the problem that the state doesn't know what it's dealing with. And then the problem is when some investor comes to you and you decide to go into a direct contract how to go, why go, because in the end no one dares. After the experience we've had, who people have been through and after the court proceedings they've had, absolutely don't dare. Another problem is your legislative framework. We're really very much inclined to define laws and then forget that you, some of those laws at all,... So we're really ready to define more and when we get to the local level, even more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the third problem is the problem in your head. The first problem we're going to solve is we're going to say 2018 or how long it is, I think even though it's wanted to be done faster. Another problem with the legislative framework, we're going to do a little bit of trouble here, but we're going to solve it, but the third problem is the problem in the head. I, as often as I know how to say working life, have worked both with the state administration and with the public sector and with regard to spatial planning and with the development of space. What we need to change is two facts. The first fact is that we all try to work together how to solve the problem and how the problem doesn't get complicated. I don't know if they're the character of this climate or somewhere else, but you often meet that when you get somewhere, then you hear six reasons why something can't, so it can't do this. So then when you solve those six reasons, then it becomes 7 and 8 and it's enough to hear one reason how something can and how something should work. And there's a saying that we often use, you can't pay as little targets as I can do, which is absolutely wrong. And the third problem is when a man works in the private sector, then he absolutely knows who his employer is, knows who his boss is, knows who he works for. And that boss who knows exactly how much an individual pays. When he works in the public sector, he acts like it's not. That's what the public sector is all about. Someone who runs one ministry is his employer are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all those who work are employers and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, by their work, fill the budget and from them, all of us get our salary together. And that's something we need to change in our head. And whenever there's any investor, and there's no big, small, or other investors. An investor is someone who wants to build his family house because his biggest strategic project for his life is his family home. This investor didn't come here so now that he's complicated and that someone can't go anywhere but he needs to get the absolute best possible hodogram, he has to get the best possible recipe to do something and he has to actually get rid of it as quickly as possible. If that were the case, then you wouldn't need this Strategic Project Act. Because what does he essentially say? The Strategic Projects Act says we will prescribe strategic projects, we will respect all other regulations, we will only work urgently and quickly. That's what this law essentially says. So we have to have a law to say, my people have to work faster. I really mean in the situation we're in, there's no one who's gonna change something overnight. I always support every law that's a step forward and should be a step forward. I support every energy and initiative in this country that wants something better because it is the task of all of us to really do something better in this country and not to raise everyone and wait for who will last turn off the light because it is a situation that no one wants. The methodology we could use was two. We could use the methodology to prescribe a strategic project from project to project and to decide on it by Parliament. There are these cases, too, to prescribe, that there is a strategic project of the Republic of Croatia which is irrigation, for example, Slavonia. And that there is a special law, that this law is passed by the Parliament and that all procedures are defined by that law except for those procedures that have become your EU directives, but you could have prescribed it all. Maybe that'll be a solution at some point. Slovenia did so for the area of a part that was demographically and abandoned to them. That's what Switzerland did when I mentioned it. We didn't decide to do it, we decided to do it this way. And we've decided on the way our finances are. It seems to me that it would be very convenient for us to sort of define what are strategic projects of interest to the country related to the message we are sending but we must not forget that, that we have decided both with our Constitution and with everything else that actually development goes from below, goes from units of local self-government and they also have the right to have their strategic projects and have the right to prescribe what is extremely important to them. As I was saying at the outset, and as I repeat several times, every step is a good step, every improvement is a good improvement. There is namely that key moment and this key moment is people who will work faster and more responsibly but that no law will change but we need to change and think about the way that maybe it's really time for us all to stand behind certain strategic projects at the state level and for us to have special laws because these are countries that have found themselves in certain problems that have recognised that they are in trouble, they have passed specific laws. And I stood up for a model like that, and there wasn't enough preparedness. Maybe she's ready now, so maybe that's the future. I hope this law will come soon and into another reading. This law is an improvement compared to the existing law that was established so it changed twice, of course the changes were more than a certain percentage, so we came with a new law. I must say that this one proposal that I have now managed to find in my historical layer that we were doing there in 2013 in a very narrow number of people had some 32 articles and I still think it was a good proposal but he was a little, little step up and certainly a heated debate would have been won in this House. But I believe that if we want to take one step forward we're going to have to work in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63950	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, on several occasions you mentioned that other countries had passed laws on certain areas that regulated legal, legal issues in these areas. So I would remind you that Croatia also passed laws that were limited to certain areas in Croatia such as the Island Act, the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, the Law on Supported Areas. So it was, and they're still in effect, some of these laws. Therefore, at certain times, we too, in order to go to certain places in Croatia with certain measures, there are tax policies, any incentives, subsidies, etc., and so on, adopt specific laws that were only applicable to certain areas. In the second part, I agree with you when you say that this law is, in fact, the recognition of the state that we are slow, that we have an inefficient administration and that we would say on a scale doing business where, in that place that belongs to us. And so this law is not a capitulation, but this law is trying to make up for the fact that we still have to prescribe procedures in certain laws that will speed up investor law in all projects not only in strategic investment projects. And if we need it in such laws, that's where I agree with you. But even when we pass those laws, there must be three more important things to me that you mentioned in part, and it's a built-up cadastre and a land book. This is an assumption for me of all investments in Croatia. Another thing that applies to space-based planning documents, and then we wouldn't need certain exceptions that this law has prescribed. And the third thing is a stable tax policy. And that's three basic preconditions for investing in one country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63952	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. Answer, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63953	Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, there are a lot of things we agree with other than the ones we disagree with. So I'm in my presentation, absolutely agreeing with you about the Island Act and everything, but I've been thinking about concrete projects, and I've been talking about concrete projects. That is why I was opening up and talking about a law that was passed in connection with the construction of a hall in the world championship, or the whole process that was related to it. Let's just say I might explain a little bit. Maybe we're ready for a law that speaks of brownfield investments or maybe repurposes of unspective military space into something else. And to prescribe certain procedures because that would make life easier. The thing is, we bring this law to make life easier for ourselves and for investors. Investors really coming to Croatia start acting like they've come where they can. Our job is not to tell investors everything can but to define what it can, how it can and under what conditions. But what I really do, it's always the key and it's always all human. As Minister Dalic, or Vice President, came here today and presented this law, there is not much to be done, so she won't have to sit down much, but she could and... thus show that she cares about it, that she cares about it, that she cares about it going. It's just as important to you people who do your job. There's someone who cares about the job, who thinks of the investor as someone, if that investment goes, the budget will be full, I'll get more pay, and unfortunately there are those who think that investor came to ask them to bother them. What is our job is to have a lot more of those who know, this investor who comes to Croatia will fill the budget and I will get the conditions that I have a higher salary, very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63954	Thank you, too. We're moving on with the clubs, Mr. Darko Horvat in front of the HDZ rep club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63955	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, it's nice here to listen to the discussion and debate of those who understand matter and trust me, colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, too bad you're not part of this coalition potential because I'm sure at least some of these proposals would certainly be on the table today and would be part of this legal framework. I agree with you and define the three key problems you've said, but one fourth I'm going to apostrophe and I'd love to get into this rhetoric, so there aren't three but there are four. And that's the problem of making decisions here in Croatia, so with everything you've mentioned, the problem of making decisions actually slows down investment and in those situations where I would say it's documented and all clean. I also agree with the story that, finally, this legislative proposal defines a methodology that decides to declare a specific investment strategically. And in that one small segment, I disagree, so here today we are not talking about strategic investment of municipalities and cities, the legal framework is clear and the bill is called the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm going to do a little digression, so I have a daily contact with one strategic investment going on in the Republic of Croatia, in the area of the Međimurje County, an investment that has been estimated at around 200m euros somewhere, an investment that the European Commission has already given through... around 20m euros in support, an investment that two strategic partners of both of them have found at an additional EUR 20m, and at this point, the energy approval process is to be carried out in order to obtain a building permit. I hope that the project Geothermal Power Plant in the city area Prelog and investment worth more than 200 million euros, at the latest by the end of the second month, will receive a building permit and get all the conditions and conditions for work. However, everything would be nice and ideal, although the project has been being prepared for almost six years, but after resolving the property legal relationship, following a re-examination of an abandoned INA drilling system, after concessions and all that was needed, we have come into a situation where and with all the conditions of joining the energy facility in question to the electricity system, the investor at this time to confirm his feasibility of the project does not have a certain amount of premium and does not know at which price the Croatian operator will buy the produced kilowatt electricity hour. So I agree again with one sentence in which we are building a mosaic, and then I would tell us certain cubes of this mosaic, knowing and knowing the system may turn out a little uncontrollable, and I hope that during this year, according to the Law on Renewable Sources, we will get all the necessary sublegal acts, get a defined premium system, get a methodology for calculating that fixed part of the prime minister and that variable part of the premium so that we can then get all those potent projects on which at least a dozen times there have been words from this speaker, and they have been linked to investments in the energy sector with a clear picture and a clear view of investors when they move into the investment. What is important to note, therefore, is not only because this is a new legislative framework because the existing amount of more than 30% has changed, so it was necessary to modify almost the whole law and make a new one, so this is a legal framework that is very happy and skillfully attached to a law that we discussed here in the Parliament the other day, which is the Law on Investment Encouragement. So with this legal framework, we build on the Investment Encouragement Act with the aim of bringing this investment environment to us in real and realistic terms not in the preparation of six years, but in the preparation of a year or two, it brings new fresh capital to the Republic of Croatia and, I would say, the same conditions for both domestic and foreign investors. This law therefore reduces and significantly accelerates the process of coming up with the total necessary documentation and the realisation of the project itself should be reduced to a minimum possible time period. What makes this legal framework a hope, so no one can come to the Republic of Croatia and improvise strategic investment, but for this strategic project before the government declares it a strategic must show at least a partially secured financial structure. And it's a good thing that the authority over the implementation of this law has, I would say, one body of the public administration, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, because either by adopting this law, it's going to be a key filter in defining projects that we're going to call strategic. So, once again, I will apostrophe that this legal framework does not derivate the existing Croatian legislation to anything. So none of the projects today will be able to meet the criteria, become a strategic investment of the Republic of Croatia if it is not included in spatial-planned documentation, although it is not part of spatial plans and units of local and regional self-government, as well as spatial planning strategies of the Republic of Croatia. So, the key changes that the Deputy Prime Minister has already made here I will repeat once again, the fact that every investor, was a private person, was an OPG, a unit of local and regional self-government, a public enterprise, in majority or 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia, so any investment to be declared a strategic one will have to have a certain source of funding in its background, or the investor will be able to prove that approximately 5% of the estimated value of the investment, invested more that investment and that it could be declared a strategic one. What I am particularly pleased about is that nothing in this legal framework has been left to the case. Therefore, from the moment the commission is formed and the people who will follow the preparation of the investment until the signing of the agreement, or contractual obligation, and finally and penalisation if one of the investors usurped both the time and the obligation of civil servants and officials and that they were engaged in its investment which has essentially no real basis for happening. And what makes me particularly happy, so regardless of what I did in the opening work, I note that this law is a framework governing the strategic investments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, I welcome the reduction in the level of investment that we consider to be strategic on the islands of the Republic of Croatia because the strategic definition is one of the strategic specifics of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to create all the necessary preconditions and that life on the Croatian islands is not only continued but in any possible way and advanced. So, any investor who tries to compromise what is in this legislative framework, what will be imposed on him as a liability, will pay a certain contractual penalty of 0.1% of the total estimated value of the investment, and I think that is one way, evidence of the seriousness of anyone who wants to launch investment in the space of the Republic of Croatia in this way. Another great ignorance that was said here today in this assembly, and I hope that my colleague, Bunjcu, the vice president, clearly answered and learned what she was actually reporting for the debate, was to be read in the law itself. So, no one imposes infrastructure, in particular other projects that must be built, but the Republic of Croatia by making a decision and stressing its wish for this joint, I would say the financial framework within the European Commission, with a desire to find certain projects on the common list and become a common interest in not only the Republic of Croatia but in the overall work of the EU, so all countries or at least the works of the countries that... region in the area surrounding the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it will not be possible for the European Commission to impose any strategic project but for the Republic of Croatia to build some projects not only for the purposes of the Republic of Croatia but also for regions with such projects to seek a co-financing methodology in the common European cash register and what is particularly dear to me, so that LNG terminal and all associated transport infrastructures will be built, in order to distribute that gas from the LNG terminal locality, or to transport to the area not only of the Republic of Croatia, but also our environments are all grateful projects, for which certain subsidies and co-financing will not only give them, but, by now, the European Commission at a limited amount, and I hope that this legislative framework will encourage the story and that this year we will not only start to implement these two strategic projects, shared by the European Commission in the area of the region, but will, during this year, get a green light from the European Commission's budget in which will not only finance to the EU's money from the EU's budget, which is not only the EU's money to the EU. The HDZ Representatives Club supports this intention, I am sorry that this debate does not include those great critics who use this parliamentary pay phone to encourage precisely those topics that somehow collapse and this fog are breaking down in certain debates. So there were very, very few of us here when we debated the Investment Encouragement Act. Today, there are even fewer of us here when we are discussing the Law on Strategic Projects of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But I'm sure when some strange topics will come that this Assembly Hall too will be so full and rhetoric is much stronger than today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63956	Thank you, too. That doesn't mean there's no replica. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63957	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start at the end. So, the fact that when we talk about the laws of some, and this is an important law that actually gives one step not too big, but small forward. There are relatively few of us, and on some of the things that will be, I'm guessing tomorrow at least two, three. But so much for that. That first part I'll forget you said. They offer it for someone else and at some other time. But I'd like something to do with the decisions. Indeed, decisions are very difficult to make. I always like to tell a story, you know, when you're as old as I am and you go through all sorts of things, then you see things, and then you have a series of stories. There's one, say, investment on one of our islands. It's a tourist zone, it's about the investor building an urban planning plan, solving property-legal relations, obtaining a location permit and never going to obtain a building permit. I kind of think that when we write laws, we write laws for someone. Not some imaginary investors, but some real investors. And let's just say it might be good, even though it's not popular, and it would be called heresis, maybe a couple of investors who have invested a lot in Croatia and gone. What was that reason why they left, what tortured them? Is that perhaps a way in which we can get some better quality laws in the future? It's the hardest decision to make. You have to stop behind the decision, win often and by the kidneys behind some things. But if you know what you want, then you need to spend it consistently, and it's even more important where someone runs their stock like it's in the staff, so he's run away for four years, so the next one who runs for four years tries to pick up where he left off, not every time he starts out, because every time we start out, it's been quite expensive for us in the last 20 and a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63958	You, too. Mr. Horvat's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63959	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I have to admit, it's a very high percentage of consent in what you said compared to what I'm thinking. So, you today if you look at the space of the Republic of Croatia, if we are aware of the fact that perhaps by some I would say micro things we distinguish us, so East Slavonia, north of Croatia, Lika and Gorski Kotar and Dalmatia. I also agree on the three problems listed which are wound cancer in all of these areas that we're talking about. But what I'm sure is the philosophy of attracting investment and investors in northern and northwest Croatia is different. So, in these cities and in the municipalities, it's an important sentence you've said. So, first you need to know what you want. When you know what you want, you're looking for it. And I have long advocated for a long time that neither any investment in the space of the Republic of Croatia is desirable nor any such investment opens a quality job. So, with the fact that north and northwest Croatia has a relatively well-developed economic and entrepreneurial sector still the county where I live from has a net salary at the very beginning of the Republic of Croatia. So both local self-government and the central state did not co-ordinate investments well, and it also accepted those investments that opened up a large number of non-quality jobs, and that is why we have a basic reason why the net salary is the same as it is. Finally, I will repeat again, I agree with almost everything you have said and I say that with this synergy and opposition and the rulings I am sure that with a little more numbers and all these proposals coming would certainly be part of the legislative framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63960	Thank you. Mr. Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63961	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, 10, 12 years ago, only about 30, 40% of local self-government units had spatial plans. So when they got rid of those spatial plans, there was an uplifting of economic zones that are staring, unfortunately, half-empty today. However, what bothers me, which we talked about the other day and when we talked about the Law on Regional Development, which is the unequal development of Croatia. Let's say in Banovina or in Lica one drive or some investment that opens 50 jobs is more than a strategic investment, a super strategic investment for that area. That is, for example, in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka. It's practically some kind of benign investment. So we simply need to appreciate and assess where we care. And what companies owned by the state should do, and I think the Deputy Prime Minister has said one key sentence, which is that unfortunately of these strategic projects, the largest part of the waste on the investment of companies that are mostly state-owned, while private investment has little. The risk to the state of private investment is practically nothing. You come with your capital, you work, you do, if you don't let God happen the failure of the state with that practically has nothing. While the risk of investment made by state-owned companies is something quite different. And what I think we must finally give an answer to the question of whether the Rijeka – Zagreb – Botovo strategic investment for the Republic of Croatia. If it is, let's see how to finance it and how it's done. I repeat, four years ago, we raised the price of electricity to Croatian citizens by 25% that it would be a cornerstone for investment and energy. Unfortunately, no investment has occurred, and Croatian citizens, meanwhile, have lost one eight, nine billion kuna. So that's the question we have to answer where that 8.9 billion kuna is. And in energy today, that 8.9 billion kuna can be made terribly by road. So... Facts we can't escape from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63962	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63963	Comrade Shucker, I agree fully with you. So, in these past years, we've only been back 12 years because you've apostropheed them, not because it's crucial in this whole story, but in those 12 years, and you and I are part of, I would dare tell these real stories, which is waiting for us in the space of the local self-government units that we come from. Well then, in some of the institutions of the state government, here today in the national Parliament. So, I'm on my own and I've had the opportunity to witness the situation where the government by decision, declares a certain investment strategic, and then a unit of local self-government, or a local chief who does this local self-government water, such an investment represent. Well, now, I'm sure we'll still be working on this bill and in it, we'll be crystallinely clear to withdraw the information between what's going on and the information that local self-government has over what kind of task and public enterprises, and also to local self-government units as a message of choice is being sent by the Government. When these confusions disappear, then we will know clearly what is the role of public enterprises, which is the role of public administration, which is the role of the central state and at that moment, which I am pleased, a legal proposal for any such strategic investment, determines the civil servants who will deal with this business. So it will no longer be solved by the investor himself, but by the commission, which will lead the very strategic investment, from the moment the government declares it strategic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63964	Let's move on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63965	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also welcome the Deputy Prime Minister with the escort and respected colleagues and fellow MPs. And respected citizens who follow us in our work. We have before us a proposal of the Law on Strategic Investments in Croatia. And here, I'll remind you just before it's said. That it was 2013. Such a law has already been discussed here and what we, anyone who is serious here in Parliament, rely on some results, such initiatives, such laws. And we see, as it is said here, that it has been a little useful. A smart man will always draw the conclusion that in the economy, and we economists know that business is not done by law. The laws serve as a framework for doing things. So we had this framework in 2013. The results are thin and we see that something else is wrong. So it's not the key to lawmaking, it's either good or better, okay, but it's not the key. Well, I want to remind you here, since the end of the war in '95. To date, foreign investors in Croatia have invested about 32 billion euros. With these investments from 2008 to now, significantly land, they are the smallest compared to countries, Central and Southeast Europe. But what are the results of these foreign investments, of which both this government and previous governments expect miracles. So we have you see, we haven't reached, still GDP, just before Croatia's declaration, an independent state. We have a huge number of unemployed. The same number as that. who left Croatia. So we must leave the illusion that foreign investments are a magical solution to Croatia's situation. But for whom is this magical solution? Well, for those who have no vision and those who have no concrete solutions. They'll do anything, not to say, that a little bit, that I'm not joking about that account, that they're willing to welcome at the border, instead of customs and border police, to offer coffee and water. A little bit, so funny about this, the party We Change Croatia, will support everything that is useful for the development of the Croatian economy. However, as a university professor of economics, finance, I tried to find here a strong standoff in this law, on which I could say, here it will begin, really something is happening in this country. But... So I didn't sign up for this debate just to criticize, because that's not how I learned to talk, I'm talking about arguments or I'm offering some solutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is said in the bill, that it will define what strategic investment projects are and that the aim is to improve the investment climate. And what's an improvement in the investment climate? It is true that there are certain disagreements, or different solutions at local and national level regarding certain problems, and this should continue to be addressed. However, when it is said here that it wants to be excluded, as far as energy is concerned, the energy sector and investment monitoring centre, which is therefore obviously doing a project check. And that projects so far need to be revised by the government and that it, that is, the Ministry of Economy, and from now on, the Ministry of Economy will be doing these jobs, then we cannot conclude anything but that it is the cumulation of power and that the investor, for instance foreign or domestic, will have to come to the government and that it will be able to solve everything. That's pretty much the way it is. Furthermore, it is said that the investor should not have as pre-secured funding sources at 10% but should be 5% and 5% previously invested, etc. A particularly problematic part of the law, an article that says projects financed by EU funds are therefore automatically becoming and coming to the list of strategic projects. And please, who guarantees you that the strategic interest of Italian is, now I'm speaking by heart, meaning Belgian, German, French investor in Croatia should also be of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia? Who's to guarantee you that? So what are the European funds for, who first approves them? First of all, Croatia does not approve of them. It has to be clear to you and to all of us. So here we are serious people, not to prevent anything from developing but to point out, to praise what's good but we say people this isn't good. So if we are not able to assess ourselves, which is our strategic goal, interest and what is the project for us strategically, then we simply need to be seriously concerned. Another example of how the concentration of power within the government goes, the Ministry of Economy is the proposal in the law that the government has the property owned by the Republic of Croatia necessary for the implementation of the strategic project. So that's the same story, right? It can be good sometimes, but it's too much concentration and it's unnecessary. But let's ask the fundamental question of what it is that attracts foreign and domestic investors. I, as an economist, know and repeat that laws do not resolve or encourage, do not address the economic situation, they do not therefore develop investment projects or raise GDP. They are a frame. This law will certainly not boost the meaning of these significant investments. Why? So here I remind you again in 2013 so similar laws have been passed before, no strategic investments. And in particular there's no greenfield investment, so those that start with the icy, which is just being built. Of this 32 billion euros I said the foreigners invested since '95. So to this day, it's a list, it's brownfield investments, so what's already been done, it's banks, it's pharmaceutical companies, it's tourism companies. There's a little something made here and there, and please don't fool us with big stories about big foreign investments anymore. So what can be said in the end is what are the key problems that detimise both foreign and domestic investments, so let's say what is key. So who from abroad will invest in Croatia when court disputes last so long, when desperate is the judiciary, when it's practical, when we have such an unstimulative tax system for the employer, for who's the investor who comes here? Who will come here and take expensive loans in Croatian banks operating in Croatia? Who will come here when the culture of non-payment is developed, 90, 100, 300 days, when you pay? It is an ambience, it is just some factors that detimise foreign but also domestic investment in Croatia. That's what foreign investors and domestics want to hear. In this regard, I believe that this government has no solution to the key economic problems in Croatia and does not have an economic policy for GDP growth rates of 4.5% and more than that of Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary that show this. On the other hand, if we talk about strategic investment, we have some companies that are of strategic importance, they're in trouble. What is it with Djur Djakovic, who also produces military equipment, is it a strategic company in Croatia? It is for me. What about Petrokemia, the farming strategy? What about the port of Rijeka, strategically in every way? There's nothing about it. So if someone expects it to be enough for the government to say today we have concluded your strategic project for Croatia and does not change everything I said then we really have a government without a vision, a government that doesn't know what it wants but expects someone to come to strategic moves and projects to solve the problem we're in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63966	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. First Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63967	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I can sort of agree with the presentation of the esteemed professor. Lovrinovica, however, are three moments that I simply cannot agree with. The first is that by criticising the story and the authority that I have claimed from one and in 2013 the strange institutions that were then called the Centre for the Monitoring of Investments and Restructure of the Energy Sector, so from the intelligence that the centre has so far had, it accumulates responsibility and decision-making methodologies in the ministry. I just want to make it clear that this House voted about two weeks ago, abolished that institution, so this institution is no longer there, its intelligence must be and it has been relocated to the work of a ministry. The other thing I mentioned, which I said from the constituency, is that I am responsible and I will not hesitate that the Republic of Croatia has one of the best and most encouraging frameworks, investment frameworks in relation to the environment in which it is located. So let's not forget that about 3 weeks ago here in this Assembly Hall we discussed a law that allows every investor who is eligible for the Republic of Croatia to return the capital amount of investment at a level of 1 million and a half euros, not to pay a profit tax of 100% ten years if such an investment occurs and for each newly opened job in certain areas provides certain grants.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63968	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63969	Well, colleague Horvat, just one brief answer. The moment I see and when we all see that private investment in Croatia is growing then you won't need me to explain to me that something is one way or another, we'll all see the empirical fact that things are better. And since that's not the case, then we just can't say it's a good thing, so we're dealing with the laws in particular. I say, the judiciary is a problem, the problem of non-payment, this, which is why they're economic reasons. As long as we don't figure it out, there's no change and let's admit what we see, what it is, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63970	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63971	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your debate, you said that the law and the legislative framework could not strengthen the investment climate and restore the confidence of investors in the country and that its investment would be truly as strategic and as such accompanied by all institutions. Here's just one example that you're right, that we need the law, but the law needs to be implemented and everyone is equal in front of the law. I have been able and in previous years one project to try to push into the list of strategic projects for Brod-Posavina County and where, because of, I dare say, not the cooperation of the two state bodies of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture have failed, and often with our investors there is an objection to the general state in our country that there are often obstacles to the model Mr X or Mr 10%. This must not happen, and I think it is good for a state body such as the Ministry of Economy to be a roof body that will coordinate other state institutions, other ministries in terms of monitoring investment and helping investors in Croatia because it is of common interest to all of us. And of course we welcome the reduction of this threshold by investing up to 10 million kuna on the strategic list on islands, but this is my thinking, so here I'm asking you what you think about giving it to all the underdeveloped areas where we have demographic problems, where we have an emigration that projects already out of 10 million are strategical like Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And of course it does not happen as you mentioned Djuru Djakovic to fail the recapitalisation because there were different opinions in the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of State Property, so the assembly that needs to decide on the investor was delayed, and in the end no one mentions it anymore. I think we must all stand behind such investments in our companies as Djuro Djakovic and similar and allow them to be competitive on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63972	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63973	My colleague Vlaović and I, of course, agree again with the fact that we must have a regulated legal framework for everything and so on to encourage investment. However, I repeat, the effects of this have so far been very weak. What I particularly want to encourage this government has been in power for a year, have you seen maybe a list of some investment projects regarding energy, as regards the infrastructure of another? So you know how much trouble there was when the state property of the existing state-owned companies were supposed to rank which are strategic and which aren't so some were expelled, etc. But I liked what you asked for if the law already defines 75 million that strategic investment is so much capital investment, and in rural areas that are poorly populated that it is enough to invest 10 million to declare itself a strategic investment. Well, I suggest you don't write it at all. Why? Because on one island where 20 people live so there's 100,000 kuna strategic investment you know, hiring three people is strategic there. So look at Slavonia and Baranja that are half-empty, so there's the same thing when a man doesn't say if he invests a million kunas that's strategic. So it's strategical to help him in his troubles to start working, not as much as he invested in those parts. So we all go and think in a positive direction, but we don't need to push into the law what might tomorrow because if this one comes to the island to invest 3 million kunas where 10 people live he won't have strategic investment status or if he wants to invest 5 million in a village in Slavonia or Baranja or Banovina he won't have such a single let's say privileged status. So while it's time you need those things fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63974	Thank you very much. And finally, the last individual debate, Mr. Tomislav Jagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63975	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Dalic with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I'll try to have a brief discussion of a lot of things, if possible. Namely, this is a very important project and for the investment climate in the Republic of Croatia it is important that all those who want to invest have as clear a rule as possible and that they can do so in the easiest possible way. What the minister pointed out in the explanation that out of the 29 projects on the list, only 8 are private, and of which the government has declared strategic investment projects, only 3 are private of 17. So it's some kind of key light motif of this law, at least that's how I see it. Investments are important, what I find very important at this point when I look at this law, that is what it can indirectly cause, in fact, that any strategic investment can indirectly cause, and that is, above all, the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship because I think that should ultimately be our goal to all of us. So building a road is not a purpose to itself if it is not in the function of developing the economy of that region. What the same data shows is that small and medium-sized enterprises that carry innovation and introduce new technologies are much easier than large companies, because large companies, especially public enterprises, often perform with monopoly and have no need for such investments. And that is why, to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, investment is important and the reforms that need to be implemented are also important. I don't mean just reforming public administration, state or local self-government units, but I'm also thinking about reforming all segments, so here I'm going to mention two, three systems that are very important. These are the reforms of science, education and health reform. We'll put the peace system aside for now. Every reform requires investment or money and we are now in one vicious circle because one of us has a poorly developed entrepreneurship, especially when we talk about small and medium and on the other hand we have a bad investment climate and, of course, investment in science is small. According to all the averages of developed European countries, education invests relatively little in science, and we can see this especially through private sector investment in science and education. These investments are very small and developed countries show that they have investments in very successful education systems, that private sector investments are very large. In Article 3 of the Law, it was well defined as a strategic investment project in which it reads, that it is every private investment project, public investment project or public-private investment project in the field of economy, mining, energy, tourism, transport, infrastructure, electronic communications, postal services, environmental protection, municipal economy, agriculture, forestry, water economy, fisheries, health, culture, audio-visual activities, science, defence, justice, technology and education involving the construction of buildings and which, under this law, is declared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So here is a very well-numbered all those areas of human activity that we can apply to this law... And what my remark, which the Proposer would like to take in knowledge and perhaps adopt, if there is no second reading, I will go with the amendment, and if that amendment is accepted, I will vote in favour of this bill, that is, Article 7 which is attached to this in paragraph 2 speaks in meeting the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of this article, a private project may be declared strategic if it refers to and is now listed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Production and processing activities, development innovation activities, business support activities, high value added services activities, energy sector activities, infrastructure activities, activities in the agriculture, forestry and fisheries sectors, health activities, and here there is a 9th point missing, activities related to science and education. I think the investment of the private sector in this system is extremely important and I reiterate that this is being shown again by developed countries. And that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63976	Thank you, Mr. Sagar. Two replicas, first Mr. Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63977	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Sagar, the Strategic Investment Act, was probably years ago. We know that in Croatia there have been many failures in these 25 years of strategic investment, I will mention as the first railway where I am in the east of Croatia, where we travel for 4 hours, we have failed to make this railway to connect the East and the West, which is a very important thing. Here I am yesterday on the highway hundreds and hundreds of trucks driving cargo to the west. Imagine now trains that would drive to be far cheaper, far more useful and we would certainly have a greater interest if we had that and we didn't actually solve it. You mentioned small and medium entrepreneurship, I fully agree and especially about the agriculture that the government is now strategically considering and investing in Slavonia. It's very important because hundreds and hundreds of thousands of farms have closed down, and that would be a real strategy to get it back now, how these same farmers who closed down their farms to motivate them to reopen, to rebuild their jobs but to be safe. Unfortunately, here happened Agrokor, the only consumer who had our products on his shelves, thank God that he survived and passed this law and that it was being extended and that our people joined that system again. But how to solve agriculture and trust people because I live down there, I know what opportunities we have. We have big, that 1,000 workers hire but that same worker and that same small entrepreneur must have security. However, our courts and the judiciary are honest cancer of this country's wounds where court proceedings take more and more years and, of course, entrepreneurs can't agree on that, they're simply wasting their time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63978	Mr. Sagar, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63979	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mišić, you and I come from Slavonia, and then in our own way it is clear to us that agriculture is very important. What was here when the OPG debate was, we know that the OPGs that we should hope for in the future, become the bearer and development, rural development and development of agriculture, they are traditional economies and they find it difficult to accept innovation by nature. What I have proposed in the amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government to allow more units of local self-government to form a joint office, an administrative department to attract EU funds, I think it is extremely important if the units of local self-government are headed in this direction because farmers often do not have that support, there is support to apply to issuing funds that are accessible by the EU fund. And agriculture has to use those funds and what you mentioned in the dairy sector, that's true. People are going to build a farm. Someone made them these projects with one price of milk, one entry fee. In the end it turned out that the price of milk fell and they were actually unsustainable. What matters is that everyone, including the Ministry of Agriculture, takes care that every project is being monitored. It's not enough in that technical sense to give support, something to do, it's important to follow through various strategies. Here is now the development of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. And I think that the state and such legal proposals, and then by using all the resources here are 555 or six units of local self-government that are simply at the disposal of this country, and then it's called those people to the local sheriffs, and you can't really see the real benefit, especially in Slavonia for agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63980	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63981	Thank you, Vice President. I am glad that you mentioned in your debate the existing small craftsmen, entrepreneurs and businessmen because it is somehow flimsy and story among them that they are often on the sidelines and that they are mentioned in both the Parliament and through the legislative framework and there is still a lack of satisfaction and dissatisfaction that the Ministry of crafts and entrepreneurship is no longer there, but everything within the Ministry of Economy. Because it is nice to hear about the Law on Strategic Projects, about the project Slavonia where I welcome the natural investments in the port of Vukovar, the port of Osijek, the port of Slavonski Brod, the reconstruction of the railway line towards Vinkovci and Vukovar. And the key question is what and what goods these ports will overload and drive, which products will be driven by these Croatian railways if we do not encourage these very small investments in the economy that are already living in these areas and give them a chance and new ones. There was an announcement of a wood-processing plant in Vukovar and it makes sense because there is close and raw materials and of course there is that infrastructure in the future through the port and the railways, but then it is too long to talk, negotiate and the question is whether this investment will come about. Without such domestic investment, these support to small craftsmen and entrepreneurs have no new jobs in Slavonia. Then in vain these infrastructure projects and I think that in this context we should all work together and promote Croatia as attractive for investment, but also support small craftsmen and entrepreneurs and try to be some sort of correction on that market to allow them to be placed in their goods and products. And I think it can then restore trust in the state and bring the young back to Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63982	Mr. Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63983	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Vlaovic, so here I am, as well as Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Dalic, Minister of Economy, what is important is that this ministry can have a major impact on science and education. What I, as one of the objections to Mrs. Dalic, is, I don't mean to her personally, but when I look at her ministry, I don't know how many State Secretarys and Deputys there are already called. They're all economists, impossible not to have any engineering engineers, electrical engineering. And we see that in the world most of all patents, the most innovation goes from the field of technical science. So what's important is that the education system improves, and that's the only thing that can be done by encouraging really small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Because the Ministry of Economy can prescribe laws that will attract large investments, but that's my personal position. I think it's a mistake that these big investments will in themselves achieve economic growth. If a number of other things are not connected that will actually encourage these large investments, and it is certain that often the craftsmen and small and medium entrepreneurs find themselves in the wind, they have no one to turn to. I don't think it's a problem if the ministry's been lifted, but I think it's a problem if they don't have the key people they can contact. Here it is now, and I'm glad the President of the Republic has also warned the Ministry of Finance to stop that presy being carried out on people. And I think we should look that way because that's the way to the recovery of the economic picture of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63984	Thank you very much. Finally, the closing statement will be by Mrs Martina Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63985	Thank you very much. Well, I would like to thank you all for your contribution to the debate, for the suggestions that have been heard here, which we will, of course, consider and hope to refer the law to another reading within a very short time. What is quite clear is that this law represents in fact only one part of the overall puzzle of a more favourable and quality economic condition not only for investors, but also for those entrepreneurs who already work here. I also believe that other laws that are currently in the process, which here in the Parliament, which come from the Ministry of Economy, and I believe that their provisions and their messages will be clearly identified as part of this overall puzzle, i.e. as part of the government's overall policy aimed at the economy, strengthening growth and achieving sustainable and stable growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63986	Thank you, too. So I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote, that's the formula I have to say, we'll vote when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63987	We are going to propose the Law on Strategic and Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z.E. No. 223, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, firstly the proposal for a Law on Strategic and Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text, the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 107 votes in favour, 16 abstentions and 4 votes against the conclusion that it was transferred by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63988	Now the next item of the agenda needs the opinion of the parent committee. We'll wait for that opinion. And that's why I'm setting a break until 1400 hours. It's 12.10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63989	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS]] It is now up to us - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative cooperation in the field of tax, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 184. The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional interpretation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63990	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. We therefore have the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of taxes. This law was adopted in 2016 and entered into force on 1 January 2017. The law lays down provisions governing administrative cooperation in the field of taxation between the Republic of Croatia and EU Member States. Automatic exchange of information on financial accounts between the Republic of Croatia and other jurisdictions and implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of compliance with tax obligations at international level and the implementation of the FATCA. The law lays down provisions necessary to comply with a number of EU directives aimed at exchanging information among competent authorities and to prevent tax evasion. In line with the EU's global developments, in order to combat tax evasion, it has provided a legal framework to extend the automatic exchange of information to financial accounts in line with the developed global standard, etc. ... CRS. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] The Republic of Croatia, as a member of the EU, shall apply a global standard as from 1 January 2016, on the basis of Directive 107 of which the provisions comply with the Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of tax. This ensures the exchange of information on financial accounts between the Republic of Croatia and the Member States. In addition to European legislation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall apply the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the improvement of the fulfilment of tax obligations at international level and the implementation of the FATCA. The Republic of Croatia will receive information on the financial accounts of Croatian residents based on FATKA, i.e. on September 30th 2014, 15th and 16th. The Republic of Croatia strongly supported all international initiatives aimed at combating tax fraud and evasion in order to connect all countries of the world. As a member of the Global Forum, it is among the first countries to sign a multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. This was in October 2014. Today, the Republic of Croatia has 55 other countries in force with a multilateral agreement, and is applying the FATCA already mentioned with the US. As a result of the more effective fight against tax fraud and EU evasion, it adopted an extension of administrative cooperation in the field of tax in December 2016. This is Directive 2258 of 2016 in such a way as to provide for the possibility for tax authorities to access information on the prevention of money laundering held by parties carrying out a deep analysis of parties. Therefore, these amendments and additions are prescribed to comply with the said Directive 2258 of 6 December 2016, so last year. amending Directive 16/2011 as regards the access of tax authorities to information on the prevention of money laundering in order to ensure a legislative framework to further strengthen the fight against tax fraud. It allows for more effective monitoring of the procedures for depth analysis used by financial institutions in such a way as to enable tax authorities to access information on the prevention of money laundering held by entities under Directive 849 of 2015. The European Parliament and the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of financial systems for money laundering or terrorist financing and amending Regulation No 648 of 2012 Therefore, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of taxation provides for access to information from entities carrying out a deep analysis, i.e. financial institutions and all other bonds of application and implementation of a deep analysis, which relate to the measures of a party's depth analysis, the keeping of records of transactions, the information on the real owner and the real owners collected, processed, shall be kept in accordance with the regulations governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The tax administration shall be in accordance with the rules governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing directly available data contained in the register of real owners as well as data on the real ownership of legal entities and trust managers or with the trast of an equal entity of foreign law. Therefore, the basis of the EU and national rules adopted and the signed multilateral avoidance agreements, i.e. the possible tax evasion, is increasing. As more and more countries have been said to access agreements, while at the same time expanding the scope of information exchanged between Member States, i.e. competent authorities. These amendments and additions to the law are going in that direction. Since there was no objection by the MPs to the text of the bill's proposal during the first reading in the Croatian Parliament and that in this final proposal, the law only experienced less no-technical corrections, we propose to the Parliament to accept the vote of this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63991	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We only have 1 Club of Representatives and this is HDZ, the Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here today we already have another legislative proposal for which we parliamentary representatives and such a conclusion will go on behalf of the Committee on Finance should decide that there is no need when such technical compliance with EU directives, such proposals of the law go into two readings, regardless of what the Government must do to avoid obtaining criticism from Brussels. But I don't think that because of our interoperability and our interoperability and everything else, there's just no need for these technical laws to be held twice in the debate in the House. So one in the obvious of the law, however, looking at everything that hides the potential opportunities that the tax administration will also have tomorrow when this law is passed he is not quite as technical and it is not quite so simple to say because some of the provisions of this law give the tax administration the opportunity to obtain data that she could only dream of so far. So it's not just about amending the law to prevent the fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion. And what is very important is why in principle and when there was at all the exchange of such data not only between EU member states but countries around the world, which was launched, the forces of the alliance when they launched a general fight against terrorism and they were all aware that they simply had to get into all the pores and all the traces of money. Because if you don't get into it, there are a variety of funding opportunities. And you'll see when this new form of terrorism takes hold of how much financial laws have changed and how much has been changed, some walls have been torn down to get some financial data. So just remember one of our home stories about a certain money delivery from Croatia in the '90s that neither the CNB nor the financial inspectorate at the time could come up with information outside the Republic of Croatia and as you can see now not only the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering but also the Financial Inspectorate, and above all, the Tax Administration can practically come up with the smallest financial detail about who owns a particular company, who is the real owner, what is its situation on the jury account, where tax obligations arise, where that tax should be paid. So regardless of what this law has only 6, 7 articles, technical changes, it gives great opportunities to the tax administration to fight tax evasion. Finally, the introduction of the OIB into the Republic of Croatia also went towards one goal of obtaining an overall blood financial picture of the flow of money, the ownership relations of individual companies and, ultimately, where individuals have certain assets whether they have covered that money with legally earned money and whether the tax is paid to them. Therefore, Article 4 provides for access to information relating to deep analysis and the real owner clearly states that the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the tax administration may, for the purpose of effective monitoring of the process of depth analysis applied by the reporting financial institutions within the meaning of this law, access the mechanism to obtain data as I have already said yesterday that could not have been achieved at all. And also what is very important, groups of multinational companies that are Article 6 whose total consolidated income of the group in the previous tax year exceeds the amount of 750m euros or the amount in the second currency corresponding to that amount. I think, Mr. Secretary of State, that maybe this is where it should have been applied in value rather than that which corresponds to that amount because in finance it's a notion that might not be mentioned. Finally, Article 7 provides for criminal provisions. When you look at these criminal provisions are very low compared to what individuals try to conceal even though the basis of the provisions of this law hides them but the fine of 20 thousand kunas, from 2 to 20 thousand kunas, you have to admit are very small for individuals who, in some cases, probably want to hide and hide millions or tens of millions of kunas or tens of millions of euros. But it's probably according to our breaking laws and it's inappropriate to what basically happens when these data is hidden. So the HDZ Club will support this final bill. People who work at the Ministry of Finance and in the Tax Administration know best how much these provisions of the law will help them to prevent and evacuate tomorrow, that because someone has founded a company somewhere or in some way, to avoid a tax obligation in the Republic of Croatia and for one general, universal security is very important to see the flow of money and thus to minimise terrorist financing throughout the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63993	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63994	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative cooperation in the field of tax, second reading, P.Z. No. 184. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of tax, please vote. I set out unanimously, with 127 votes for the adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63995	We would now unite the following 3 points, these are: The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2014, 2015 and 2016. I hope we all agree to unite, not individually. I see no one's against it. Thank you. - Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2014; - The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2015; - The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2016; The holder is the Croatian Olympic Committee on the basis of Article 75 of the Sport Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Gender Equality, the government delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, the Honorable President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Mr. Zlatko Mateša.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs. A few introductory words to try to connect what is relevant to these three documents which are otherwise quite abundant, detailed and I think that all of what is most important to the functioning of the PDO can be read from. First of all, as far as the legal framework of the HOO is concerned, it is often not understood, there are often questions whether we are an agency, part of the state administration, no, we are an association. The work of HOO is based on all components. At the Olympic Charter. The alignment of our action with the Olympic Charter is controlled by the International Olympic Committee and, on the other hand, the Law on Sports and the Law on Associations is prescribed what the HoO does in those cases when it comes to Croatian sport. So what's he doing? In fact, HOO funds and transports all the performances of our athletes and athletes in international competitions, preparations and for the Olympic Games and equipment and everything that goes with it. It is a huge job to have a picture of what it actually means in one time period, for example in the following year, our athletes and athletes will perform at over 760 international competitions of world and European rank, which means that almost every day of the year next, two of our teams, or an individual or individuals will compete in an international competition. What unites the hoo? National alliances. We have 73 national alliances and 22 local sports communities. They're a component of the HoO, they're a congregation of HOOs and they're bringing in all of our documents. In addition to funding national sports alliances, we also finance so-called development programs that you can find in the materials you get. On average, there are about 300 athletes and athletes from the youngest who are only twelve years old to those who are Olympic candidates. For example, Tin Srpić spent eight years in our development programmes before becoming world champion, he entered the development programmes at the age of 12. The second component of development programs is trainers. On average, there are about 70 of them, and besides the football team menus that we don't finance, all the other coaches you know from sports life in Croatia are funded by HOO, all the national selections menus, all the coaches of our biggest sports stars, the biggest Croatian sports successes, their coaches, and often the wider context of their professional headquarters, is funded by the HOO. Why aren't we funding? We don't finance clubs. So our relationship is only with national alliances and that is how we transfer the funds that have been granted by the Ministry or today's Central State Sport Office, and we must in each item justify and show what they have been spent on. In addition, local sports communities are part of what HoO deals with, in cooperation with local sports communities we work together to improve sports infrastructure, we give certain equipment to the youngest selections, and here I think we have really good results, at least according to what people who run local sports communities say. This includes a whole series of programs that combine small children of kindergarten, school, preschool age, which have 10, 15 000 on an annual level, which participate in our programmes, which promote Olympic values. How is HOO financed? Two are basic sources. You see from the materials available to you, one refers to the funds collected from gambling, so any player who pays any amount whether in the lottery, whether the bookies, 5% of that payment goes to a special fund at the Ministry of Finance. This special fund is then shared by various users based on government decisions and usually our part, so to speak, we are not the only roof association, with us there are paralympics, deaf, academic sport and school sport. So our share is usually about 35 to 37%, depending on the year and the part that finances top sport in Croatia all 73 national alliances. The other component is our own income. You see yourself from the material, according to years, between 10 and 15 million kunas. Their source is marketing, our own, their source is the International Olympic Committee and the European Olympic Committee. These funds are not the subject of this debate because they are autonomously shared by the decisions of the HoO Assembly and do not enter the circle of public funds. As for what's always a magic word and a very important transparency, I have to say that we have one 6 degree control. So we have internal control, a commercial audit long before the law even introduced it as necessary. We have the Supervisory Board, we have the budgetary supervision of the Ministry of Finance, we have the State Audit and finally we have the Parliament, and we must say that, according to our knowledge, the Croatian Olympic Committee is in Europe, which reports to Parliament. We don't know about any other case like that. Therefore, we are trying to make this available, visible and transparent for all those who have an interest in seeing it. In these materials you have today, I won't talk much more about what's inside. ... A lot, a lot of data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will only say for 2016 that it was the most successful year in Croatian sports history. Of course, I mean Rio, ten medals won. To the fact that we are, by all standards, both our and our sides, foreign bodies such as English and American bodies, comparing either with GDP or with the number of inhabitants, among the 10 best in the world. I think there are very few activities in which Croatia is among the top 10 in the world. Well, that's what I wanted to say in the introduction, I'm sure you'll have some additional questions. We're here to answer that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63997	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63998	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear guests. You've made Mr. Matesha beautiful for us, shown this report through very pink glasses. However, if you ask the public, the public about Croatian sport does not have as good an opinion as you do. In fact, sports in Croatian society seem to be making very big recommendations, including social conflicts. I am particularly interested in this, you claim that the Croatian Olympic Committee is doing very well, which is why no strategic documents have been adopted, which should have been adopted long ago, such as the strategy on the development of Croatian sport, which is why the Croatian Olympic Committee has been in its statute since 2005. We know that the efforts started in 2000. in this direction and until today, this strategy has not been adopted. Obviously, this strategy does not want to be adopted, and it is obvious that someone is afraid of this strategy. So you'd like to tell us firsthand, how things are with that and if you could expect the adoption of that and a whole series of other documents, which are also late in their realization, what will they say more during their presentation on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u63999	President Zlatko Mateš's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64000	I've already forgotten this technology. Thank you very much for your question. It's a great question. And thank you so much for setting me up. And that's the part I should have said, and I forgot. First, there is a situation in our sport that makes recommendations and where we have very bad examples and where we have very great tensions. Unfortunately, it is more or less related to one sport and in some ways, it makes it difficult in some way to make it difficult for other Croatian sports players, where they are so little forgotten. It is especially good that you asked about the national sport program, i.e., for the strategy. We've been waiting for her for 11 years, Your Honor. It was a provision of the Sport Act, 11 years ago, that within 9 months, a national strategy must be adopted. He'll be right in front of you. We can say, thanks to the Central Sport Office and the people who really have now taken it kindly. As far as I know, you will get a national strategy for sports development very soon, you will be able to consider it and give your priorities. And also the new Sport Act. So, that right, you, that document was missing. It's not our document. We can participate in his work, work, but we have our strategy, adopted by the congregation, several years ago. But that's how it happened, that for reasons unknown to me, that provision of the Sport Act, never came to life.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64001	Thank you. Next replica, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64002	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Matesha, listening carefully to your report, in fact we always, so shyly like to talk about our successes. You mentioned a regulation on game allocations and lottery funds. I remember well in 2015. that especially apostrophe of that part in... A percentage amount, related to sports, knowing it's an Olympic year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that Olympic year, such a small country, out of 78 countries that have won medals, is in 17 places with 10 medals is an extremely great success and it should be constantly apostrophe, talk, emphasize, actually boast. I'm glad to hear that. I'm glad to hear that. I'm glad to hear about our athletes. And from Mr. Glasnović, all the way down to Branka Vlasic, the brothers Sinkovic, Perkovicka,... However, this report also mentions the Croatian Olympic Academy, with 31 programmes and 353 participants, and says in the report that for the first time there was no funding from the state budget for this academy, and that the students themselves had to pay for this academy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if the funds were provided in this year 2017 for this, but I should definitely thank you for 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64003	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Golden Matesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64004	Yes, Your Honor, we have a Croatian Sports Academy, whose purpose is to train mainly people who will conduct sports activities in smaller areas, at lower levels of competition, or to improve some of their skills through various student courses. The advantage is that it is included in the professional training and, of course, it is of great benefit. On the other hand, things change. There are other organisations on the market that are involved in this, and I prefer that because of this situation, in order not to violate some competition budget is no longer willing to finance Croatia's Olympic Academy as something special. But we're gonna do it and we're gonna, we're gonna make a commitment to self-finance those programs that are deficiting. We have excellent Chinese universities in both Split and Zagreb, but they have less than 30 sports somewhere in the programs, and we have over 73 alliances that have countless disciplines and that is kind of how to fill that hole to say so in education and of course we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64005	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Matesha, you mentioned a magic word of transparency. I will mention another magic word that has often been used in Croatia in recent years. It is tied to EU funds. The 2016 Report mentions five projects applied by the Croatian Olympic Committee according to the programmes. Therefore, ERASMUS + programme from 2014 to 2020. I am interested in whatever these funds are already listed as future plans, what plans for the Croatian Olympic Committee further have to do with the absorption of EU sports-related funds. The second question I am interested in is whether the official position of the Croatian Olympic Committee and your personal opinion on this, therefore the question of acquisition of Croatian citizenship by certain foreign athletes currently playing for Croatian clubs. What is your attitude regarding this problem? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64007	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Golden Mathesha.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64008	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This first part is terribly important. We now have the ninth and tenth in the course of programmes related to European funds, together with our partners, to tell them. We've reached a level of 20 million kuna in all these projects. Otherwise we help local communities define, we have created one book that defines only European projects at a local level related to sport. And from that title, we help local communities recognize what they can do, to which they can apply to help them. We'll keep doing that, but honestly, we don't have that kind of capacity. We are happy that we have a European office in Brussels that is very helpful, so we have a direct link or what we would say to the EU, we can use it. In this second part, it's as if you've been to the meetings of our council. We only give an opinion on citizenship and try to respect what the proposer wants. The promoter is always the National Union. They're conflicting opinions. Some people think it should not be done, some think it should be done if it is in the interest of Croatian sport. I mean personally when you asked me to observe it from case to case, it shouldn't be a general practice. But here's what's happening in the global world. Now we get out of Sweden, everybody thinks Sweden's dream. We got an excellent athlete in taekwondo who's probably gonna run for Tokyo. That's what's happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64009	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Mateo and his associates. You told us in your opening statement what the tasks of the Olympic Committee were, what you were doing, etc. There are some of us who know that, but you mentioned funding, so you said you were funding from two gambling sources, or public money and your own income. I just want to point out here that these funds that you get from public money, from gambling are more than 90% of your budget so that you should clearly say here, that people who don't know don't think that's half of it or that you have more of your own. So basically our debate here concerns more than 90% of your work let's say so. But on the financing and business and work of the Olympic Committee, I will say more in an individual debate later on. But it also rang to me as my colleague Cellic did one word that you said, which is transparency, and you said it in context that because of much control and everything you have is transparent. And you see this word was also mentioned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its opinion on your 2016 programming and financial report at a session of 7.12 and several days ago, and it was written this way: "Noting that the Croatian Olympic Committee should make additional organisational efforts in order to increase the transparency of its work and full compliance with applicable laws, sublegal acts and planning documents, and to coordinate planned activities and public needs in sport within the framework of the planned projection of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. It turns out that in the government they don't really think that you work prematurely, that you should work much more transparently and that you should give more effort to be more transparent and to work in accordance with the laws. Because if your work is not in accordance with the law, then you're de facto doing it against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64011	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Zlatko Matesha.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64012	Of course anyone can be even more transparent. Let's explain how things work. Now here comes a distinguished representative who knows it well. When you get a HOO some funds don't get them this bad, so we have to offer every time the programs, then the central state office can say and always say this can be financed, this not and for all that is financed you have to attach the proper documentation from which it is derived that it is financed. What's in this decision that you're talking about is the difference between the needs of the national alliances they've shown in making our budget that should be accepted by our assembly because we're an association and what the state is planning to finance. And that's what a special contract is about, Your Honor, and under that contract, we finance and spend only what's in that contract and we have to file for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64013	And the last replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64014	Thank you very much. If we were to watch the result of the Olympics in Rio, then we could say that the Olympic Committee did a great job, but that should be added to all the world's European championships in all categories because, as you yourself said, only the football team's menu is not funded by the HOO. And therefore, if we want to do well with Croatian sport, we must first of all adopt a strategy on sports development, but I think it is a key document, which is the law on financing sports in the Republic of Croatia. It is definitely a document that the Croatian sport lacks and will make a lot of order. And also these funds that come to the Olympic Committee when you take 100 and some more million kuna, and how many thousands and tens of thousands of athletes are practically related to it, then you'll see how small they are. However, we are, when the medal is won then we all love to jump, paint everything etc., but when we talk about sports then if we need it for the daily political needs then we talk very ugly, but even that football that is so ugly, so look, they've been present on the world stage for years at all the biggest competitions, going to the world championship will bring a few dozen million euros, will bring a few great transfers to our football players and that's the same result. Well, it didn't fall out of the sky, it's all the consequence of a certain... that works in one way or another. Now we all know how to complain to basketball players who are in such a situation, but the question arises whether a sports inspection should drive certain officials to regulate that certain Croatian clubs perform in some leagues that are not subject to the consent of national alliances under the Sport Act. So a thousand and one question, and I think HOO can serve everyone honors because what we did to Riu was never hoped for by anyone alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64015	Thank you very much. Well, then, I'd like to ask if a representative of the government would like to further explain his opinion. No, I don't. I'll open the hearing then. On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the first representative of Sasa Djujic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Matesha and his associates, I welcome you once again, colleagues and colleagues. Here is today after three years again we have opportunities in the Croatian Parliament to discuss the programming and financial report of HOO this time for 2014, 2015 and 2016. I think that should be emphasized, and I don't think it's good that now in the year that's already out in about twenty days we're discussing something that happened and what happened three, four, five years ago. It's not your fault, but it should be mentioned for some other things. It should also be noted at the beginning of this debate that the Croatian Parliament did not accept the last two reports on the work of the HOO it discussed, i.e. the Croatian Parliament did not accept the programming and financial report for 2012 and 2013. And as I see from the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that proposes not to accept or only to take note of the report for 2014 and 2015, this means that we will not accept them, because the ruling majority will vote on what the Government is proposing, but only to accept the report for 2016, this means that the de facto Croatian Parliament will not accept and will not positively assess reports on the work of the last four years in the continuity of the HOO. This is what some of us in this house talked about four years ago, and we warned about certain shortcomings in the work of the HOO, and the same things the Government states in its 2016 opinion and should say about it. So four years ago, there was a warning of certain gaps and certain shortcomings, and what happened? Nothing, it went on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. So what I want to mention is, I want to mention what the government has written in its opinion, as far as sports television is concerned. So sports television with today has 80 million kuna losses, has 4 credits in the amount of it all beautifully writes to you in the government's opinion means 52 million kuna, these are short-term commitments to banks and suppliers, and guarantees for these loans and guarantees for the business of Sports Television were given by HOO. And even the government in its opinion on your work states that if these guarantees were to be charged and these guarantees, I will read it, quote the Government, so that he doesn't say anything wrong. So the government has been warned after seeing the state of business of Sport Television and what debts there HOO has been warned how the program report of the company owned by the Croatian Olympic Committee, HO TV d.o.o. not containing the necessary financial data and additional data have been requested and subsequently provided. In this connection, the Croatian Olympic Committee states that the company HO TV d.o.o. to achieve a point of business coverage indicating a further obligation to monitor the implementation of the financial and operational restructuring plan. On the other hand, the government has been looking for you, warning you that, and it says the same thing up there, I think I can all quote that you with your guarantees are practically jeopardizing the functioning of the entire Croatian sport at national level. Because if there is a charge, the Croatian Olympic Committee as a guarantee will have to cover those debts. And these debts today are 80 million kunas, if we take your annual budget as about 100 million kuna, of which 90% is strictly dedicated and cannot be spent on Sports TV, then you would have to give almost all your resources to cover the loss of Sports TV and this practically endangers the functioning of the entire Croatian sport. Now, what's your answer to that? You are responding we will reach the point of coverage, we will work better, we will work positively and here we have accumulated losses from 2011 to 2016 amounting to 80 million. So 5 years of sports TV back shows basically not that there's no point of coverage but you go down to minuses from year to year. And as soon as you're mentioned Sports TV, you're saying we're funding it with our own resources and we're entitled to it. And the government has written to you that you never listed at any time what these are your own funds that you finance sports television, how much and how you'll calm it down. And your own funds are $3.4 million a year. Now, you'd have to use your own resources for 20 years to cover those losses. A series of these irregularities have also been observed. I'm not going to go into that detail right now, so sports TV. And that's, to be clear, one failed project that I don't know about after five years, which is why you're pushing it, and you're standing so tightly behind it, instead of saying it, I told you three years ago, okay, we tried, we didn't go, we didn't make it and we gave it up. In this way you are only jeopardizing Croatian sport and its future. For what? Because of stubbornness? I mean, I don't see why. Then you said four years ago with sports television doesn't work well because we're criticizing it from the SDP. Well, here's three years without a debate in Parliament, three years you haven't heard anyone mention you, and three years goes by again. How? Okay, I can't wait for you to explain that to me. [[I'll explain.]] You also mentioned in your opening presentation that the funds you receive from the Croatian lottery do not share as you wish, but in accordance with the programmes and let's say that I know that and that is so and that is really true. Now, on all these programs that you finance from public money, the Ministry of Sports has to give consent today, you said in your introduction. Now that we're talking about 2016 you've made a rebalance for funds without the consent of the ministry, according to the information that I have, you correct me if I'm not, if I'm wrong, even though by the law of 2015 you've been obliged, or you've changed the needs of sports in your congregation without first getting the consent of the ministry. You just gave it to the congregation, the assembly voted, and that's over. It's de facto illegal work. And that's what the government warns of in its opinion. So I'll read it again, so the government draws attention that you have to make additional efforts to make your work more transparent and in accordance with legal procedures. And you know what's even more absurd than all that work you've been doing and what it says? The most absurd thing is that the government tells you gentlemen, you don't manage public money well, you finance sports television that you shouldn't finance, you work non-transparently, you work against the provisions of certain laws, but we give you a positive opinion. Now it's a criticism to the government that the government can give a positive opinion on something that itself says is not in accordance with the laws. If the argument says, your obviousness that it says, here we'll be better in the future, my moms, I won't do it anymore. And then when we see that you guys are a roof association doing it that way and with all that work we have top sports results, there's a contribution of your big one that we don't lie to, so you should say it openly, but you can imagine how much better these results would be to say 80 million kuna of sports television invests in our athletes instead of in the wind. Then Sandra Perkovic wouldn't have to buy Sarah Kolak a spear so a woman could even go to the Olympics and get a medal but you could buy her that spear. But she won the medal there, then you take your first picture with her, and you work there to welcome her to Zagreb because then it's great and if she hadn't had a colleague who jumped in, she wouldn't have had a chance at all to get that medal. And he said a colleague there before me, the situation in Croatian sport is unfortunately today with excellent results catastrophic. And as much as some HDZ colleagues say we have great results, we have them, and we need to be proud of that, but the system doesn't work, sport is in crisis, sport is compromised. And especially here, and there are colleagues before me touched football, and I have to mention football. What happens in the Croatian Football Federation, in the HDZ branch, is a disaster. So today you have a better chance of becoming Pope than the president of the Croatian Football Federation. There are more candidates there than the Croatian Football Federation. And they bring their statutes and break their own statutes. So their statute states that the electoral assembly must be held at least three months before the maintenance, and then they call it a month before. And then it works out for you in a way that, I don't know, one of the candidates Dario Šimic comes to Sibenik to represent his programme and he's tortured, killing and representing him and then the programme of another candidate Davor Šuker presents fellow Kulusic, formerly longtime president of the HDZ Sibenik-Knin County and then the leaders come out and say, and here's the Schuker program is better, you know he'll give us 100,000 euros, so we'll give him support. See, that's a shame, these are messages sent to citizens and the Croatian public, and then you wonder why 70% of people are for changes in the HNS and against the HNS. It's interesting that these 70% of citizens think that this government is doing badly but that's because HNS is a HDZ subsidiary and that's what should be said here, Davor Shuker will be president again because they choose between themselves but they need to talk about it, they should be warned because football is not played for the sake of Davor Schuker, the football alliances of the county and the HNS, rather than for viewers who are more rescinded, they no longer want to come to the stadium, here. That's it, and then we add the business we're seeing here, financially as it is now these little athletes who are struggling and trying hard and have no equipment or means to do anything, see that you're wasting 80 million kuna on sports television and on such failed projects. What kind of motivation is that for them to work? How do they work? The SDP club will not support this report, as well as in previous years, because we feel that business is not good and we simply regret that you do not view these criticisms as a warning of some failures and try to fix the work, but you've been here for the last 3.4 years, you've had peace, you've had the wind, you've had air, so you haven't done anything. So we don't even believe you'll be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64017	Thank you. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Branimir Bunjc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64018	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Djujic, we have heard from Mr Mateša that the HOO is the only committee in the world to report to Parliament, but it also seems to be the only HOO in the world that owns its own television. In fact, I don't know, maybe you know in some case that some other Olympic board has their own television, and we see actually one picture of an economic model that exists in Croatia and which we could, of course, call the Agrokor model. So some kind of, let's say the organization, which has a certain political influence and social impact, goes into debt with some kind of projects very suspicious like this sports television that you said and then comes into a situation that 80% of the income already represents a debt. What happens if the mandate of the HoO goes beyond the total budget he has? And what will really happen one day when Croatian Sports TV is shut down, then who will pay those costs? If he's going to pay HOO, so he can just close the door, put the key in the lock. I hope Mr. Matesha in that case won't escape to London, like some other people who are involved in similar activities or will pay for it again for Croatian citizens, are we going to bring Lex HoO to this Assembly to bridge some dubiosis that will again be worth 12 or 15 months. So there are debts. The HOO does not have its own funds because if it had, it would not have raised a 3m-euro loan in May this year, and again it has raised its own guarantees. So, you're right, sports television is a rock around the neck of a HOO and it's just a question of when that rock will pull the whole board off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64019	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64020	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, you said this well in the end, and we, or I said four years ago that it was a stone around the neck of the HOO and the entire Croatian sport, and that then colleagues understood and shut down Sports TV, those losses could still be recovered, the future of sports would not be compromised. You mentioned an economic business model in Croatia called Agrokor. You know what the difference between Agrokor and this case is? Whatever the situation in Agrokor is, Agrokor was a private company, and these are public funds. Gentlemen in HOO are also working on a project of public funds that are strictly intended and intended for the development of Croatian sport and not for some kind of television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64021	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64022	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic, in your debate you mentioned a concept which unfortunately is in effect in Croatia, which is that HDZ has been advocating sports organizations since the 1990s, this most significant view of me here Anka Mrak-Taritash, who has been an official in such a time, but this Mrs. Anka is not so attractive, there is not so much sweetness, there is not as much sweetness as there is in the football alliance, in the basketball alliance, in the Olympic Committee, etc. So unfortunately, we're once hostages to such a situation, you see what we have in HNS, we don't have a choice, so there's a system set up on a model to pick you out the ones you chose. And so you can forever. So you have both a skirt and you're tailoring up how you're tailored and eventually these people are choosing you and it's so democratically set that unless you get the support of most of those you subsidize their activities, you can't even run. So it's a system that offers us HDZ and that's been holding sorely for all these 20 years. And even Prime Minister Plenkovic didn't do it, here he said publicly and so much about the authority of Mr Plenkovic who publicly said that it should be changed and the thumb downstairs showed him third-rate, not by human quality, but by party-ranked people in HDZ they said it doesn't matter what the president of HDZ says, we'll do how we've done so far and we'll choose the one we local HDZs want to choose. So, unfortunately, here it is, it is shown that Prime Minister Plenkovic cannot force his will, but that is why the entire system suffers Croatian sport and unfortunately we have to change it, but it has not changed for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64023	Thank you. The respected representative Sasa Djujic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you said HDZ has been playing Croatian sports since the early '90s. Except for what you said to your colleague, Dark Taritash, without so much passion. And I wouldn't say that. They're the ones with the money. Because where the money is, there's the HDZ. Because only in the Croatian Football Federation, you can volunteer for 55000 kn per month. I've never seen a volunteer with that kind of resources anywhere. And where to work, there, then there's a little space for such as colleague Dark Tarritash, they can work, and those where the money is there is us. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64025	Answer. The next replica is the respected representative Marijan Kustic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64026	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I've been listening to your debate very carefully, and I can agree in some parts and with you. Maybe you wouldn't have answered the line, if you hadn't, called it the Croatian Football Federation. And I'm one of the members there and I'm the first person to answer the word and I told the public that I'm for change in the Croatian Football Federation. I'm still gonna fight for sure to change things. One way or another. Now, this insertion, whether it was employed by HDZ people or something. So you deny yourself that's not true. That we're being transferred to politics getting involved in that part. Here, I'm pulling myself out of that candidacy, just so someone doesn't switch politics into it. I've frozen my statutes. And this is to say, whether it takes 90 days to call the election assembly, it's not true. I'd like you to read the statutes a little bit better that says that the assembly is convened 30 days ago. If an extraordinary assembly with the signatures of the county alliances or members of the assembly is asked by the president of the Football Federation, it must respond within 30 days, and the deadline is 90. It's all clear here. This is where the president of the Football Federation called the assembly and it's 30 days. Not that I'm defending him, I even publicly attacked him on that side. But, I mean, don't keep inserting HDZ to protect something or Prime Minister Plenkovic because that's not the case. And you must note that there are good things there. No one will say that Croatia's 14-competition team has been to 12 majors. This small team can be raised in Europe with these results. Because here we're looking, I don't know, at the Olympic Committee's budget is 130, 138 million kuna. The Football Federation is 210 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64027	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's the esteemed representative, Ivan Celich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would ask that we stick to the topic of the Croatian Olympic Committee's programme and financial report, although it is an attractive topic for the media and the topic is related to sport and the Croatian Football Federation. We can talk about it on another occasion. I'd pray, he's broken. 232, because we're not sticking to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64029	Yeah. In part, I agree with you. Of course football is part of the sport and falls in a broader sense, under the Olympic Committee, but certainly these things that have now been discussed have nothing to do with the Olympic Committee's report. Well, I don't think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'd like to pray that we all stick to the subject, within the limits of the subject. The answer of the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujq.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to replicate what my colleague told me, which is, the theme is football, so I'll stick to the theme of replica. Here, buddy, I congratulate you. You are one of the few HDZs with the diameter of Plenkovic, who said things are wrong in Croatian football. But like your colleagues don't plump him, 5, 9, so unfortunately you don't plump 5, 9 because they would listen to you. I'm glad you're one of the first to see that they need changes in the football league. And you can't tell me this has nothing to do with HDZ, when 11 of the 17 members of the Croatian Football Federation's executive board are HDZ, some have retired. Mr. Davor Shuker, if my memory is not deceived, was a representative at the City of Zagreb City Assembly, in front of which party? In front of HDZ. He wasn't independent, he wasn't, if he hadn't been to HDZ, he wouldn't have come to the City of Zagreb assembly. He can get some kind of medal there. So that's it, they're inside a factional struggle in HDZ. I'm sorry that you stayed in the minority this time, because if you had been listened to by your colleagues, and if there really had been changes and there had been a little winding up as the Prime Minister said, then perhaps the results of our team would have been better, which are just as fantastic. But we could be much better to keep those funds and work, focus on how it should be, how it should be focused. Because being a volunteer for $55,000, then a colleague, I believe you're against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64031	Thank you. Comrade Djujic, you have now answered. But I would ask all the following debaters, not to discuss the situation in Croatian football, however attractive it is for the media and as much as they are expected to be quoted by the media, but the topic is slightly different. It's a football part of the sport, it's a football part of the HOO, but he doesn't finance it. Therefore, financial relations, management relations, have nothing to do with this report. But the next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64032	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I will try to stick, within the framework of the topic and the president, distinguished counterparts Đujic and president, the Croatian Olympic Committee said that the efforts were also in the talks of the Ministry of Education, Science and through the Central Sport Office, to increase the funds intended to develop sports in the Republic. What I personally resent and the leaders of the WHO is why they do not engage more actively in the demand, in fact, sports development strategies in the Republic of Croatia, and I think that document since President Mesic tried to bring one such document in 2000 was not there or at least I have not seen it. Because you would see in what direction Croatian sport is going. And with all due respect, what we have is a report from the HOO, we actually see the tip of the ice santa. We see the most gifted athletes, teams, which are actually funded so that they can compete at a state competition like the Olympics at all. But we don't see that whole structure standing under those most successful ones, and we actually need to make significant efforts. If we have problems like you said in getting a spear for the most gifted, the best and only then the lowest. You were a football judge, you know for sure how sports work at local level. Everything falls on the back of the local, actually units of local self-government and often depends on how many units of local self-government have the means to finance this let's say parent sport, mass sports through the construction of sports halls, through the editing of football playgrounds, others. When I say football, we can't avoid the topic because in small municipalities, villages are mostly football as basic sports. We see here where girls or women of 68 athletes, 19, I think they're women who've been to the Olympics. Maybe that's why a smaller percentage of women's sex in mass sports. Here's what I just needed to comment on based on your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64033	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64034	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Žagar, is not a strategy for the development of sport in the domain of the Croatian Olympic Committee primarily. So they're not responsible for it, and here's what should really be mentioned. Mr. Matesha has repeatedly appealed that this should be adopted, even in the House he has told us in previous reports, that it does not turn out to be just a criticism. You need to say things that are positive. But we need the others louder, not only to expect from the Olympic Committee, but also from us representatives and from other public life actors and all those who touch with sport should expect to demand stronger and harder the strategy of developing sports and more resources for our athletes, and let's say there's one problem that opened right here Mr. Matesha for. We have one whole field of gambling that is not even covered legally, and these are these games on the online line of the bookies etc. So we should all work together to regulate these problems legally. But you need to talk about what's wrong. And that's why I'm a little critical here, because if we figure out some things that aren't good in time, then our future won't be compromised.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64035	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64036	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. My colleague, I've already been so... about this sport so it would be rude if I hadn't answered through a replica at least. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about the Croatian Olympic Report, then I'm sure there's a football theme, so I'll just mention football like that. However, we need to see the essence of the problem in Croatian sport. And I'm not gonna talk about any other sports, but I'm gonna talk about sailing. We have come from this Olympics proud, we are all very proud when our Olympics perform, so no matter where they are, and when they win gold and silver, they certainly do. But you know what your fact is? The fact is next. The guys in the couple who won... 970 Olympic medal Šima Fantela, Igor Marinić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If something had happened to them, that they had a cold, that they had a fever, that God forbid someone had a loop on their little toe there wasn't a spare crew. And that's a fact in Croatian sport. On the one hand, we have a top-notch sport and there's really all our eyes together, we can look forward to it, and on the other hand, there's the problem with the base. And there's a need to discuss it amongst other things. It should be discussed about in a way that the budget of local self-government units finance this basic sport and that something which professional sport is financed differently. So when some mayor or mayor comes to an investor that he's an investor, that he's obliged to invest in sports it's a normal thing and it's normal in some countries too much. What I am, I am in a certain way really in the conflict of interest when I talk about Croatian Olympic for the simple reason that I am too involved in it all together. But if I'm one of those why it's interesting because I was president of the Croatian Sailing Union where it's actually unusual to be a woman, and besides, I beat Hanžekovic, which was even more interesting. But I also resigned on the eve of the Olympics because it was the conclusion. I couldn't do it, even though it wasn't like that. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64037	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64038	I agree with you colleagues and these things should be spoken of here from, I come from the city, and you are often in this town of Novi Vinodolski, which has a young gifted sailboat. It is called Nenad Bulgaria's which unfortunately sails in Split that, because throughout the Primorje-Gorski County, there was no conditions for progress, for development to go on. And that's exactly what we need to talk about. You may need to legally regulate in the future that units have to separate a certain percentage for certain sports, but not the way it's going now, so here I have now a few days' budget, a debate on my city's budget. We're giving some million kunas for sport, but we're giving a million kunas for sport, and then we're going to be doing those competitions that are done the way they do, and then they're going to, I can tell you right now. Football will win football club 550,000, basketball 80, handball 50 and other 20, 10. And that's it, that's how it's planned. So the law requires that less than you say amateur or less sports that attract sponsors less attract funds more from local self-government units and state resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64039	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64040	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Today we have three reports from the Croatian Olympic Committee, and in fact this should be one of the most casual topics, because we are talking about something that is recognised as one of the best human activities and activities in general. We could say almost ideal. Namely, sport. Sport is good for health, for smooth physical development, for mass association, for promoting excellence, for caring for people with special needs and disability, and most importantly brings great profitability. Some say that today in the world sports is business number two, right behind oil and gas. There's a lot of money going around in sports. Among other things, sport helps preserve people's health in a way that can achieve significant savings in the segment. Let's just say three times a week in sports reduces 50% of the risk of cardiovascular disease, and also healthy people, people who are in good shape contribute much more to the economy than people who are not. Among other things, sport encourages the fight against addiction, violence, poverty, protects man's dignity and promotes peace of mind. The speciality of sports is that evaluations are applied to the same criteria worldwide, so comparison of achievements is very simple. According to the Olympic Charter, sport should be autonomous, but in order to achieve its mission, it would have to co-operate with the state. What sport must especially be guarded, and unfortunately for us as we see it and as we see it is not kept is therefore abuses, and these abuses are often recognised as corruption, money laundering, tax evasion, other forms of crime and the use of doping. Among other things, the International Olympic Committee prohibits the politics and commercial abuse of sports, but unfortunately in Croatia we have not only the politicisation of sports but we have the privatisation of sports, political privatisation and from one single party specifically HDZ and a very bad situation in sport, the poor state shows all the harmful nature of the influence of the party on all structures of society in general. We look only at the top of HOO people who came here to talk about Croatian sport we have here a living and healthy Croatian prime minister and HDZ from 1997 to 2000 who participated in conversion and privatisation, for which the State Review cited several examples from this time that privatisation was illegal, for example. We have the constructor case. Is that why anyone answered? No, and as a turned crime shouldn't be out of date. Let's see who's still in the... HOO's got some secret connection, who's there, e.g. Mr. Attorney Marijan Hanžekovic, president of the Croatian Sanjka Union, here's a man who likes to dream, if you didn't know he was doing it. He also happens to own Sports News, accidentally owns the Morning List and a whole series of EPH editions. What's his interest in working on the road and sledgehammer, or HOO, he probably knows that I'm Mr. Matesha. Why are these politicians and any new tycoons almost getting into the sport itself? Not because of some ideals, it's because of the ideals of people who literally play sports and themselves do their own business as their families do, but they go because as someone mentioned, because that's where the money is spinning. That's the main motive for getting politicians into sports. How is sports even funded? Sport is funded as we have heard in 1997 that a law on gambling and prize games has been passed which should provide 33% of the funding to HOO for all sports in the Republic of Croatia. The law was passed in 1997, Croatia's lottery was transferring money to the budget, but by 2004 the money did not end up on the HOO's account. For seven years the law has not been implemented, the Croatian dispute has been damaged by one 200 million kuna, to whom and why this money has gone, until today we have not learned. But suddenly in 2004 when the president becomes Mr. Matesha suddenly the law works, now it's all right, the money comes neatly no more problems, the political thing is solved, but at that point other problems begin to happen, which is that money starts to be spent on things that have nothing to do with sport. So we have a case to increase the number of employees, suddenly foreign associates are introduced, a rolling stock is purchased, and sports television is being run at the end of the line that we heard is in big dubiouss, and it's supposed to just be funded. Since 2012, sports funds have no longer been available from the budget, so that funding for sports from the budget from some 0.2% fell to 0.7 to 0.9, which means that sport lost more than 60% of the budgets it had previously received. This was particularly sensitive to the financing of investments in athletes, their scholarships and prizes. We've had cases this year, let's say the water polos were supposed to win for a gold medal for the world champion every 45 thousand kuna, and that Serbia in case it became the world champion of each water polo player was supposed to get 230 thousand kuna, so almost ten times more. The Hungarians were supposed to get 300 grand. So we gave the world champion a prize of 45 thousand kuna, which specifically means that the annual salary of a municipality chief or we can tell one mayor a little better was assigned to a whole water polo team that scored the best score in the world. So, we've financed the ultimate result as much as we're funding a year a little better ears in the state administration. We also had cases of athletes funding their families and not one. There are known cases that a single athlete is called a family project, among which the most famous current secretary of state, Janica Kostelic, that many others could not even buy equipment, that they could not buy the most basic things and let alone go to competitions. That one Sara Kolak had to train in Celje, that the spear had been bought by Sandra Perkovic, her colleague, that the same Sandra Perkovic had been financed in a way that one party had put her in the Parliament so she would receive the pay of a parliamentary representative. There have been cases that the world's best router, Josip Glasovic, has filed an application or at least asked to hire him in the city's cleanliness. We had cases of Jacob Fak collecting bottles and selling them to finance his competition, so the man was collecting bottles, the world champion. It is a sad picture of Croatia's sport, for which among other things the Croatian Olympic Committee is responsible. We have a situation with the basketball team, so remember the time Drazen Petrovic, remember the success of the Croatian team, today the Slovenians and Serbia are the third team of Serbia, we are their firing can. See what results Slovenia has in basketball. And what do we have? We have that Croatian representatives do not want to play for the Croatian team, imagine that shame. Who is responsible if not the Croatian Olympic Committee as a roof organization. I mentioned already that the Croatian Olympic Committee does not bring key documents or bring them with a huge backdrop such as the famous strategy on the development of Croatian sport. And that among other things, the Croatian Olympic Committee should encourage the construction of sports facilities and we see that sports facilities in Croatia are mostly missing and not even in schools, let alone for citizens. So we have a situation that in Europe 70% of citizens are engaged in physical activities and sports and in Croatia only 20 and 3.5 times less. Someone here mentioned, I think, Mr. Shucker, that one of the key laws that should be passed would be the Sport Fund Act, and that's where we agree that the '97 law is. the year remained in force sport today would have 300 million kunas at its disposal and not these hundredths that it has but in the meantime there has been a turnover in a way that the Law on Sports Games, Games on Happiness and Reward Games have fallen out of the prize games, so reward games are no longer the way to finance sports so that sport is lost along with the reduction of these budgets we have now heard of. Of course, we could say that and probably someone from HDZ will say that we will withdraw European funds, we have listened often during the government's and individual ministers' work, but we have seen that these funds do not come. Also, the Croatian Committee's marketing commission does not fulfil its mission because it is only 4 to 5 million kuna per year, which is far too small and embarrassing. It's a shame that in the 1990s, one man who was on that committee alone is pulling 10 to 12 million kunas and today four people fail to withdraw even 5. Also a major problem in the Croatian Olympic Committee is the participation of women, the woman is very little in particular in this Executive Board of HOO, and therefore should increase their quota, i.e. to set the quota by law. We also had problems that some athletes had terrible financial and life problems at the end of their careers because they couldn't move immediately to the labour market and HoO had no solution how to help these people, so many of them practically became homeless and hungry. It would also be good to discuss sports in general once a year in the Assembly, not as we now have a case to discuss the 2014 report and indeed ask the question of who and why, who is and why is afraid to discuss sports. I can't go to the end, regardless of what it does to some people's nerves, not to mention football because right now the vote for the new Croatian president is under way. He is an absolute example of HDZ's influence on sport because in this executive council of the Croatian Football Federation... 11 council members are HDZ members with a party card, meaning more than 50%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so that's one choice that comes down to the inside of a party account. So we have on one side a person who doesn't know how to organize the Battle of Stafford dogs, against a person who is a great worshiper of the character and works of Ante Pavelic, who as a volunteer receives 55 thousand salaries, I repeat as a volunteer, who buys councilors around Croatia and doesn't feel ashamed of it at all, who makes deals with individual employees such as election teams that are extremely composing, who hides his financial reports, who doesn't know where 14 million kuna went for football camp. And most of all, we can see clearly that even the HDZ prime minister, who is directly superior to these same council members, cannot, has no power to resolve the situation, which means that the Croatian Football Federation has become stronger than the Croatian government. It's the kind of situation you have in some American movies where certain illegal groups of society are controlled by politicians themselves. It should not mention that in football, we have other disastrous consequences such as violence, disorder, hooliganism, xenophobia, racism, chauvinistic expressions of feelings, match furniture. Let's just remember those seven goals in Maximir, and it just happened to be seven goals. That in Croatian football according to the testimonies of football workers themselves, there are drug addicts who have the ultimate leprosy dictionary, who physically attack judges, that many are convicted, that many are now awaiting trial, that they are some alleged Croats and defenders who sing the worst ones that exist, dance on those teats, those Serbian, those turbo folk, to swear as the worst riders that this is unimaginable at all, to sign slave agreements with players, even with children, even with cadets. So an unimaginable state for which Mr. Matesha has no solution, so how would he have it if he didn't have the Croatian Prime Minister himself? So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64041	Thank you. At the exhibition of colleagues Branimir Bunjac we have two replicas, the first replica is from colleagues Sas Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64042	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you were also talking about problems in the work of HOO, you were talking about transparency and funding. I will take this opportunity to replicate it to you, I hope Mr. Matesha will answer me later because we have repeatedly asked if we can get the information on how much they pay in HoO, especially from the secretary and beyond because according to the information I have, 39% of the budget goes to pay and to the material costs. Now, I may have the wrong information, but I'd like to know why I'm asking a question. Don't laugh, colleague Chop. It's a legitimate question that you haven't given an answer in five years. According to some information that has been swept through newspapers, you have paid or paid more than the Croatian President. Well, I'd laugh if I were you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64043	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64044	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Djujic, it's interesting your question of wages, but what I'm curious about is how in Croatian sport can employees who have been accused with a powerful indictment that a single club has damaged by 116 million kuna, that this same administration has damaged the state budget for 12 million kuna? How can hundreds of millions of kuna be drawn to some off-shore accounts via Switzerland, through Austria, etc., and Zagreb does not even have a fair stadium? So how is that possible? The capital of the state doesn't have a fair stadium and someone has 100 million kuna who is employed in the sport of some administration etc., on the offshore account. Yachts are bought and birthdays are celebrated with the President of the State. So, my people, what could be more embarrassing for something as honorable as the activity of sports? So we're reading about sports in textbooks, encyclopaedias, reading about ideals, some messages that sport should send, and what do we see on the other side? One world champion cannot buy a spear, another world champion collects bottles and sells, and someone steals hundreds of millions of kunas. Hundreds of millions from sports. So what we should literally do, we should do one saber operation like it was in Serbia and just start arresting it all in a row. It should take dozens of people to go to jail and just start over because this is pure crime, I don't know what to call it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64045	Thank you. The next replica is from my colleague, Felak Damir, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64046	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Matesha, colleagues and colleagues. So I couldn't replicate my colleague Bunjc, he seems to have read everything that could have been found on the yellow pages, black chronicles and anywhere to talk about Croatian sport. In Croatian sport, the situation is certainly not bright, but the results achieved by Croatian athletes are very, very good. Also, the vast majority of people working in Croatian sports start from small sports to football are honest and honest people who work hard, use their spare time, are separated from family to help train young people to do good. And why all look so black through the prism of a few individual cases? Here is the mountain, and I have to say the nonsense and the truth that I won't comment on at all, mention the HDZ, and then Marijan Hanžekovic, I don't know what the gentleman has to do with us, I believe that in that alliance, he certainly isn't making money in the Sanjka alliance, he's doing it to help. And there's a lot of people like that who do it out of a good soul and out of their faith and give their money to a sport to help with these funds that certainly aren't enough. I, too, advocated that more funding be allocated to sports in Croatia, I agree with you that it is a shame for the city of Zagreb and even for the Croatian state in which our infrastructure facilities are, in particular, football. So some kind of stadium in Zagreb, Maksimir or other location, but also the arrangement of the people and Split and some other stadiums. But this is all you've said here today in your address just doesn't fit the truth and I have to say it and I see you'd end up arresting. Well, look, there's a real system in this country that determines when and who will arrest someone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64047	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64048	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Felak, look, if you're reading yellow portals to prepare for parliamentary debates, that's obviously your problem. I prepared myself for this debate by talking with top experts, with professors of the Faculty of Kinesiology, with people even who are presidents of individual national alliances, preparing for a few days exclusively with literature, only with conversations, and if you allow yourself to engage in sports and take part in decision-making at national level. What you're saying is, it's true that there are bright examples actually of those people who achieve results, who are very modest in their demands and who ultimately contribute to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia in the field of sports. But you're not the one who has the right to give in to their successes, and you want to, of course, take it out on other people's feathers, but you're not the one who has the right to do it because you're in power and we see what you're doing. And this state of football, there are your councilmen, not the councilmen of the Living Wall or the council members of the SDP. So see how many of them are condemned, and see how many of them are currently being judged. And look what they did to their clubs and their county councils, and then turn to them and not to me. I'm just here to detect the condition, which is, therefore, obvious. I think polls show you that 90% of Croatian citizens are looking for changes in sports, especially football, 90%. And you're here to say, so the problem is my debate and of course you can't refrain from personal level, you're simply talking about something you haven't seen, which you simply imagined in your own head, and now you think that's the thing solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64049	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge is a debate between counterparts Marko Sladoliev and colleagues Bulja, half half. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, representatives of the HOO, we have before us a report of the HOO, for 2014, 2015, 2016. Finally, a report on which we will discuss, which this Assembly will, in all likelihood and in the view of the Government, probably take note of. Unfortunately, nothing will happen after that. We will discuss this, the report will be noted, and the problems will remain. But since we know that sport is an important part of Croatian national identity, it has great social significance for the Republic of Croatia, the Olympic Committee, in large part, affecting the development of sport. We think this debate is important and we want to take our stand. 3 Important issues, he would point out through this debate, the first is why there are no clear criteria for the allocation of funds that the Olympic Committee has legal obligation to introduce by means of findings of the audit of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Secondly, which is why sports alliances do not have full autonomy, but are allocated according to their own means, without even asking themselves in the programmes. And the third and perhaps most important question, what about sports television? Why the Sports Television in 2015 received 4.7 million kuna from the Olympic Committee. On the other hand the most trophy Croatian Olympic sport athletics, i.e. Croatian athletic alliance, 3.6 million kuna. In my opinion, HOO is a closed institution, in which the majority of cases do not have athletes or coaches, so check or secretary general... but delegates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Over the years, another 34 alliances of neo-Olympic sports have been introduced by the president in addition to 39 Olympic sports alliances. And there are also representatives of 21 county sports communities. If, at least, this system reminds you of the Croatian Football Federation, you have not made a mistake. The key question is through these reports, why no one was responsible for the bad, unfortunately sports TV project, which Croatian sport costs millions of kunas. The idea, Sports TV since 2011, has been to promote Croatian sport, especially in the media of less-represented sports and less attractive sports, and this idea is not even bad. However, sports TV has become a major financial weight for Croatian sports. As early as 2013, the first loans were due that sports television could not return. Debts piled up, and journalists and employees began to cut their wages drastically. Perhaps we should also point out the question why the HoO is the only national committee that has its national television in the world. As a unit of Olympic television in the world, we can freely conclude that sports television has failed. And instead of a sports promoter, it became a cost, which threatens the financing of Croatian sports. Whatever the Olympic Committee said, only three team sports in 2015 received more than sports television. It's skiing, water polo and handball. So the Olympic Committee puts this television in a very high 4th place, the payroll of a roof sports organization. When we add more than 13 million kunas, how much the Olympic Committee invested in the basic capital of Sports TV, it became clear how much this TV cost Croatian sport. And it all happens in moments, when, for example, Sinkovic brothers train the borrowed boat because the Olympic Committee couldn't provide them with its own, until they qualify for Rio and Damir Martin, in time for training equipment. From all that bridge of independent lists, they won't support these reports. And we believe that the government report, that the report is being taken into account, another handwashing and fleeing responsibility for Croatian sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64051	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, fellow parliamentary representatives, colleagues. Well, here, when we talk about sports, sport is what's most important, mainly about the health of the nation itself, our youth, the recreationals, and we expect to discuss this year-to-year, but we are only now discussing the 2014 report, but it is still about the Olympic Committee, about some body, which should systematically bring strategy, mainly for areas in which it should invest that it can be engaged in sport. Someone who has been at the top of an institution for 15 years, where even numerous infrastructure facilities, which have been built as numerous arenas and halls for handball sport, are essentially tombs of Croatian sport. It was all during your mandates, because we know that most of the Republic of Croatia, children do not have a literal opportunity, do not engage in sports, but have no contact with normal infrastructure, normal conditions. So many cities and municipalities, local self-governments have no conditions for children, they don't literally have a hall where we have parquet a basic means that children can deal with sports, where sports is not allowed to develop. I know, you'll be calling on local self-government. But the fact is where the water goes dark, where the tribune should be cleared. I don't know if you've ever honored yourself, but the usual of these parts of Lika, Gorski Kotar, Ravni Kotar, Dalmatinska Zagora, and now even Slavonia? You invested in something that you then tried to mention that investment in such a hall, such money still costs a billion kuna to the Croatian state. However, he had no courage to tell the great leader Sanader. But it was done to harm the children. It's similar to sports television. We mention sports television and indeed it raises questions about the work of the Olympic Committee itself. Yes, Mr. Matesha, while the Sinkovic brothers and others are buying their equipment, you invested in your project, in your promotion. Smile! We're MPs, and you're obliged to answer. After three years you came here to respond to this body the people have chosen. We're funny to you, that we're funny. And is it funny to parents who do not have the opportunity to provide two-thirds of Croatian children with sport because you have wrongly invested in money. Or are you infallible? Or all of this that fellow MPs have said is really wrong, but the fact that the terrain speaks differently. You... The top results, that we have the top results because you give by the criteria of how money suits you, you have the election, you do the same as in the Football Alliance by the Pharaoh system, you're irreplaceable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Simply of course you can laugh, of course you control even your television you've had to control through sports. But it's sad how long you've brought this sport. So is it possible that someone has 55,000 salaries, is it possible for you to assign money to athletics, for example, very little but it's a trophy sport. You're assigning it to your mind. You have no strategy, no promotion of any sport except that self-initiatively our athletes through their families, through the sacrifice of their and their families parents literally raise loans to allow their children to engage in sports. And when they get big results, who's painting first next to them? The president of the Olympic Committee. And it's under these lights you're too often, go out in the field, visit local self-government, talk to local self-government, and you'll see the state of sport. Your basic, one who deals with sports, is not only waiting for parents to invest in their children, raise loans, bring their family's existential problem, their family to enable their child to engage in sports. But when it results, of course, then it's painting at the airport, welcome, flowers, smiles, expensive limos. It's all blooming. But it's not true. The Croatian state must make it possible for every child, and in particular the Olympic Committee is the one who must be the loudest, the Olympic Committee the loudest. To enable it to be able to play sports, not through the top results of our athletes who are truly the greatest promoters of Croatia, where the Olympic Committee writes them off, again I repeat the Athletic Union is an example of our athletes and athletes who perform surprisingly top-notch results. I'd say in the end, the river's a colleague of Sladolev's. It's sad that you've invested in just promotion, in sports television while children who are developing and our athletes who need to go to the Olympic committees have bought their own equipment. They created themselves a pyro-media picture, you invested more in the PR for yourself than for athletes. And we see that sports television is a missed project, and we expect all the interviews of parliamentary representatives to be answered, not a smile. I know that the legal framework that has allowed you to have political elites is that you are immeasurable. I know it's all funny, but because of the kids, because of athletes, because of a very important branch, which is a sport that promotes Croatia in gratitude to our athletes, we Parliamentarians will insist that you speak the truth and the truth. And in the end, I will tell you once again where the water is clouded, from where the triba is cleared, and it is time to submit to the accounts for all the bad things you have done for Croatian sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64052	Thank you, Agent Miri Bulju. At the presentation of representative Marko Sladoliev, we have one replica, which is a replica from representative Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Sladolev, you asked the question in your debate, why did Sports Television receive 4 and a half million kuna in 2015? That's what this report says. You see, of these 4 and a half million 3 million 851,000 wastes on the payment of the debt from the basis of guarantees and costs based on credit obligations for the Croatian Olympic Committee which guarantees the business of Sports Television. And that's what we're warning here. It was just in 2015, I mean, it's just, it's huge money 3 million 800 grand. But in the future over the Olympic Committee, it's a sword to drop 80 million. And the longer they get stubborn and drag it, the bigger and bigger it gets. And if they push it any further, it'll be their entire budget. And that's what the government wrote in her opinion, that she's coming, and now I'm going to read to you that gentlemen are smiling a little bit more. Slowly, you've all gotten this, gentlemen, meaning this "from the above, it's a result of the fact that HOO TV's obligations are a potential obligation of HOO which, in the coming period, can pose a real problem with the overall financing of public needs in the sport of the state level implemented by the HOO due to the potential blocking of the accounts and the activation of the given guarantees". And it's written by the government in its 2016 opinion, signed by Andrej Plenkovic, you nod as much as you like, Mr. Chop. And most tragically, after what they wrote, they suggest we adopt a report. Here's enough talking about how much the government has even read what they've got.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64054	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Representative, I've even in the debate pointed out that this idea of sports television at the very beginning wasn't such a bad promotion of sports that weren't so attractive to promote, but when it was seen that it was going in the wrong direction, I think it should have stopped, and it just happened. So the debts piled up, the press didn't pay their wages, and it was supposed to stop and then we had a situation in 2015 where the most trophy Olympic sport, it's athletics, it's got less money than sports television. This information shocked me, and here is Mr. Witchic, who is the president of this Athletic Union, who is constantly pointing out, otherwise an alliance that draws a lot of money from European money and that, but here I am going to say honestly in some way it is being punished because he was an opponent to Mr. Matesha, and that is what needs to be said publicly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64056	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club is counterpart Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64057	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Hoo's esteemed Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Given the significant course of time of opinion, we are unable to discuss in detail the programming and financial report of the WHO for 2014 and 2015, and then we will only take note of these reports. But I would, by the way, mention one interesting thing here, so the first one was the programme report for 2015, and then the chairman of the Parliament Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Mrs Nada Turina-Đurić, wrote a letter then it was just the point of the programme and financial report of the WHO for 2014, which was probably some kind of procedural error and all of these turbulences within the new governments, the old governments, so there was a kind of problem. If we look at that Croatian Olympics and five-gold Olympics, three silver and two bronzes made the Olympic Games in Rio the most successful in the history of Croatian sport and in this light we look at the 2016 programme and financial report that is largely referred to and to that period, then we can be satisfied on this side. The report also states that in 2016, Croatian athletes won 204 medals at 582 major world and European competitions, which is a very impressive figure. The top results are evidence of the competitiveness of Croatian sports, as well as an effective model of monitoring and supporting the work of athletes and professions that monitors the development of athletes from the earliest age. In that Olympic year, the HOO celebrated 25 years of its work, of course, that opposition parliamentary representatives will at the moment when the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a positive opinion a little more critical attention to this report and it is necessary to see what opportunities further improvement of Croatian sport are made, but I think it is necessary again to maintain a level and not as counterpart Felak said at the level of the yellow press to comment on this report rather than to reason on how with existing financial resources to make Croatian sport more developed, recognizable and with better results. In 2016, for the first time since Croatian independence, an independent office has been formed, the Central State Sport Office, which is headed by the Croatian Olympics, the Alpine skier Janica Kostelic, from which we expect new proposals related to sports and also a new national strategy, or national sport programme, because on the pages of the Central State Sport Office, we can see how the production of eight-year periods has been planned since 2018-2026, and then we hope that there will be no more period of 11 dry years as Mr Mateša mentioned. For many years, Croatian sport has developed according to the concept of national promotion, and at local levels it has often been about promotions of cities, counties or wider regions. So in all this came up with an idea of the priority of several sports where football is logical in the first place. There are several models of sport financing, recently mentioned Hungarian model, Czech model, Danish model, I think you should think on both side of the State Sport Office and on the part of the HOO which would be the most optimal model in the Republic. And on the other hand, what my colleague Schuker said, I think it's very important to think about the adoption of a new law on sports financing in the Republic of Croatia because everyone who's involved in sports in the Republic knows that at this point it's hard to get a sponsor, even those people who might be funding who are in such a position as to have a negative atmosphere that has developed primarily around football, but who is also spilling over to all other sports this negative atmosphere, makes it very difficult to function both professional sports and all other amateur sports. The first plan raised issues, the development of maintenance of professional facilities, which was most often based on state and city budgets, which is often not the happiest solution. Because no matter what political option it was, these politicians, especially in pre-election times, can use sports clubs to win some political points. On the one hand, on the other hand, there was a growing debate, arguments in public, on mandatory sports programmes in the education system. So whether it's about schools, whether it's about universities, raising young athletes and professional staff, as well as sports infrastructure. As a representative of the City of Zagreb City Assembly, I will mention here, so I will look back on the situation in Zagreb. So, we've got some rave football stadiums in Maksimirska and Kranecevic. Tonight the Medveščak is playing with the Hungarians, probably Mr. Matesha will, if we can finish, at the game, because I often see him there. Today it was raining, the big question is that in certain parts of the House of Sports they will be sneezing. These are the problems facing Croatian sport and definitely should also be discussed about sports infrastructure. As should be explored, therefore, about sports from preschool, school to university level. And it's also contained in this HoO report. Sports activities are carried out by sports clubs and associations of different levels. Sports communities and HoO, of course, as a roof body for all of them is characteristic, that they do not have their own sports facilities, because they are mostly owned by municipalities, cities or counties. Sport is making certain membership revenues, which is primarily related to this developmental part. So kids of school age, donations, sponsorships. It's all insufficient for the sport we expect. And again, whenever it comes to more ambitious projects, they are directly or indirectly linked to political, or budget support. Although the Sport Act is prescribed that public needs are in sport in the state and that public needs in sport at local level, in practice there are still open issues, some competences, between the central state and local units. Or between roof sports associations and local sports communities. These problems, these problems should be solved through the national sport programme, which we expect next year and which should determine the obligations of the national authorities and bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, the HoO and other committees. HOO is legally regulated as the most non-governmental sports body, which is primarily for the purpose of solving, so all logistics, related to the performance of Croatian athletes on the Olympic Games. Although Mr Mateša mentioned, that HoO, too, cares for sports at local level, I am thinking that there is a HoO, perhaps more and more generally, should be given more public debate when it comes to general regulation of the position of sport in the country. They have already been mentioned, therefore, the priority tasks that the HoO has drawn for the period from 2015 to 2020. The problem of sports television has already been mentioned several times. I use most of my free time to track or practice sports. Follow-up, practice less. And I'm glad to see Grant in judo on sports television, which I can't see anywhere else, on any other commercial TV sports programs. But definitely the issue of sports television and debt issues, long-term loans that can pose a problem for the overall functioning of sport is something that responsible persons in the HoO should respond adequately and offer adequate solutions, that the entire system is at risk. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives' Club will accept the 2016 programming and financial report of the HOO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64058	Thanks for the presentation of colleagues, we have four replicas, the first replica is from colleagues Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Steel, you have now expressed the HDZ's position which is essentially the same as the Government's opinion and now I am interested in your personal opinion as well. In this report, in the Government's opinion, which she gave on the 2016, 2014 and 2015 programming report, I will not mention at all, there is not a single positive thing. So they cite the problem of sports television, sports TV debt, and that in the future there is the possibility of jeopardizing all problems, financing the entire sport in the Republic of Croatia. That they warned the Olympic Committee, that they had told them, not in the future they would start doing it differently. They then say that expenditure on programmes of previous years, implemented in the amount of 4 million kuna, from the state budget of 3 million and 300, which is 101% compared to the plan financed from the state budget and subsidized revenues from 2015. And that that programme group was not an integral part of the approved public needs programme in sport, which was implemented by the HoO in 2016 but only appears in the reports delivered, which means that they did not work in accordance with the laws. It is written in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is why the Government says that the HOO must plan and use funds in accordance with the principles of sound financial management in the future, especially in accordance with the principles of economic, efficiency and efficiency. That means they haven't worked that way before. The same thing, I will repeat again, the government again says that the Olympic Committee needs to make additional organisational efforts to increase the transparency of its work and fully comply with the laws, which means that they are not fully in line with the laws so far. And now the government after that says adopt that report and you've now said here the HDZ's position is that, we'll adopt that, and in this opinion, the government doesn't see a single positive thing. So give me your personal opinion on why you came here to adopt it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64060	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, you are a more experienced politician than I am, so you know well when big reports are written, it is usually an alibi report to explain how much work has been done and in fact a little work has been done. Also, when it comes to government reports and opinions, which the Government's opinion has several pages, it is more negativity, so here it is said briefly that positive shifts have been made in terms of programmes to meet the public needs of the HoO sport. Sports television stands out as a problem, definitely but it is not such a problem and such a problem, regardless of the significant financial means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would not accept the programming and financial report of this HOO. But what is personally most important to me in this programme report is 10 medals in Rio de Janeiro, which is a historic success, 5 gold, and I think that's certainly, with the merits of those athletes who have made the ultimate results, although it is the merit of both the HOO and on the other hand, I view this report positively.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64062	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Felak Damir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64063	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Matesha. Comrade Celic, tell me, I hear here that members of my party, HDZ, run all alliances, football alliances, uh, that alliance, so tell me clearly to explain to me and to the public, are members of other parties forbidden to participate in the work of any sports alliance of football, handball, basketball or any other? Because I believe that people would like to hear it, this is how it turns out that everything goes from some kind of HDZ central and that's how people are placed. And we know very well how alliances work, I think Mr. Matesha has stated that there are 72 national alliances from 23 sports communities, and if I'm not mistaken, people in the leadership of these alliances and sports communities are chosen in a maximum democratic way, it means that every one and the smallest club has a representative in some assembly and from there from that base moves forward choice to here, let's say the Olympic Committee or any national alliance. If that's not true, you correct me for the sake of public knowledge. We're talking about a report from the Olympic Committee and we're mixing up a lot of other things. Mr. Matesha said what the Olympic Committee cares about, I think we should talk first of all about over 200 medals that were won in the past at European and world championships, the Olympic Games and the World League, and I think that's a positive one. There are problems to be solved, and one of them is this famous sports television, certainly there are people who can say a lot more about it, but as you said yourself, it's nice to see some less attractive sport that can be seen on that Sports TV and otherwise we could never see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64064	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Felak, the fact is that many active HDZ members are active in sports alliances, but there is no mention of the correctness here, and yet many prominent members and HNS acted as president of the sports alliances Mrs. Morana Paliković Gruden, Mr. Radimir Cacic, Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash, Mr. Sreko Ferenčak, may be the reason why we have now agreed on the coalition. So I recommend at local level there are active SDPs who are presidents of football clubs and so, so maybe if they are also presidents at national level, the coalition between HDZ and SDP may also happen, nothing is impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64066	I thank you for your reply to the replica. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64067	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, you said the opposition is against only because it is an opposition and the government's opinion is positive for this report. It's just not true, I reject it. We are an opposition and, of course, it is in our interest that Croatian sports and Croatian athletes are successful and congratulating all athletes and all the alliances whose athletes won medals and had good results in the competitions. However, what we are against and what we are asking is, we have the right to question, how this public money is being spent and you yourself said that it is small, that it is difficult to reach sponsors and this is from national sources, from the budget that is being allocated to sport, we rightly have to ask where it is being spent and it is not right as you said that some have high wages, that they travel around the world, that they have great material costs and on the other hand it is squandering the hall, and where Croatian sport draws results from, and that is the parent clubs, individuals, volunteers who finance that sport where these Croatian stars come from, for them there is usually no money, and that is what you are aware of. Now that's what we're asking for to change in Croatian sport and don't defend indefensibly when it comes to Croatian football and HNS, the assembly that's been called up in a way that the election assembly has already passed even though it's only the 22nd because it can only be one candidate and he's already won. It may be in accordance with the law and the statue, but it's not moral. In particular, it is not moral for delegates to be in the election assembly of people for whom the indictments, criminal charges, and the rest are connected. They don't belong in sports and football. When we change that, then we will restore trust and those small clubs and these volunteers to be even more active, we will have even more successful athletes. That's our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64068	Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64069	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Vlaović, very briefly, I agree with you, absolutely related to Croatian football. When I commented on the opposition, I will refer to what my colleague Djujic asked, so it is logical that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, led by Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, the president of HDZ when it gives a positive opinion, is therefore the HDZ's position party in principle. But, of course, it should also be questioned on the side of the position and opposition, as rationally, more effectively, spend money on the development of Croatian sport, because we are all proud, for every success, either individually, or in a common sport. And we'll all be glad to see those successes as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64070	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure is from a colleague of Shucker's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64071	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Koelga Steel, I've come to the line to discuss this situation with you about sports television. The first thing that should be determined, that the biggest tragedy of sports television, was that it started in the crisis years of 2011 when there was no money for those far more exposed houses, etc. The second creates, her own intention, to engage in promotion, minor sports. Now one elemental question is being asked. How are you going to get your kids into sports halls, get them out of the cafe, get them off the computer, if you don't promote certain sports? Well, they don't just have children of affinity, for these few great sports. So these are simply facts that are there. Let's ask ourselves one question of life. What today, Croatian children, an average Croatian citizen can see on national television, on these two commercial televisions, and without this Sports TV, there would be virtually no sport. Because all the sports went on cable TV. And whoever doesn't have 300 a month, 400 kn, to pay cable TV, is simply vaccinated so he can't watch sports. And now, finally, to find a model, how to bring Sports TV back to life, it serves us for a political reckoning. She's nothing but a political match with Mr. Matesh and the head of the Olympic Committee. Sports television, as an instrument, and now I'm asking myself a question, after all these discussions over the past four, five years, if anyone's had their eye on that channel, if anyone wants to put their paws in there, so deal with something else because... Sports TV. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look after persistent attacks all these years, I've been forced to ask that question as something logical. Because instead of helping, to promote sports, a small sport, which is nowhere on TV, I keep wanting to destroy this and want to politically discredit the leaders who simply brought 10 medals last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64072	Thank you for the reply to the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64073	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Schuker, the fact that there is a problem with sports television about funding, I come from the town of handball, but I am very happy to follow hockey on ice, rugby, which are not exactly sports, which are monitored both in the Republic of Croatia and perhaps in some other countries, where they are national sports. I'll tell you again an example from the City of Zagreb. So, at this point, there are 300 kids waiting for the ice hockey school. You know why? Because there are no ice sheets. And now there is the question of the City of Zagreb, which has a budget of 7.5 billion kuna annually. The question of the National Sports Union and the assistance of the HoO if these opportunities are, to create 2 ice sheets, where you could give that sport a massage and where would children who are interested in that sport. We know how this phenomenon has happened in the last 10 years in the City of Zagreb, related to ice hockey. And that's what sports television is for. So that those less attractive sports, which are not so interesting to sponsors, are thus promoted. I think that sports television has room, there's room, there's only room, there's only room to find, I'm not a financial expert, so I don't know how that would be possible, but I'm saying, from this problem and this debt, we can't escape, but I think there's some alternative again, and there's some solution that's going to allow the debt to go away, and that sports television is going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64074	Thank you. And the last debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives is a debate from fellow Members of Stjepan Curaj in front of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64075	Thank you, Vice President. Respected representatives of the HoO, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to take this opportunity a little bit as well as a former athlete and a person who's been working in an indirect way and professionally, I can't say in sports, but in a segment that has something to do with sports and clubs. First of all, I will base myself on the 2016 report, given that I also agree with my colleagues to talk about something that was a few years ago. And of course I must commend myself on the engagement of the HOO that has contributed to the historic score at the Olympic Games. So we've definitely heard that a few times already, but we should always say that. Of course, in a lot of sports, we get the impression that some things happen on their own. And that our successes happen more than they, let's say, are the result of one systematic program work. Of course, when someone shows certain results, there is a task of the Olympic Committee, and through various programs he manages to do so, to monitor all these potentials. Is there a talk about individual sports, first of all, which are, especially in those who require more funding. Of course, less when we talk about team sports. When we talk about team sports, I'm talking about, with these individual, without the Olympic committees, it's hard to have those results, that whoever shows some result at a younger age, that HoO doesn't recognize him as an Olympic candidate and doesn't finance his further dealings with that sport. And here you should say and be absolutely honest, 90, and almost 99% of all these individual people work out of love for sport, of which they honor the exceptions that we can count on the fingers of one hand if we talk about skiing so that Ivica Kostelic or I don't know about athletics and our Blanca, etc., none of them live. Except maybe five to ten athletes in Croatia, they can hardly live and survive. It's an extraordinary love for that sport. Of course, I'm not going to look back here at the most popular sport in the world, and I think he's demanding this deep debate and absolute analysis. What is shown here in the report when we talk about 2016, which represents 50% of all expenditures, when we talk about figures it's about 121 million coming from the budget or indirectly from the revenue of gambling, the rest is here somewhere I've seen around the marketing of eight, nine million of my own incomes, etc., but 68 if I'm not mistaken, millions of kunas go to national sports alliances. What I'm certainly interested in as some former basketball player and person who worked in sports or was involved in sports is that we can't allow it, I'd like to have reports here from these sports alliances that they spent these funds on is there somewhere varying from a few hundred thousand to fifty million among which is the Football Federation with 2.5 million, basketball with four and something, etc. Some are more, some are less successful or, as a national, some insist on really getting less than they should. I would not like to see the alliances become a purpose to themselves, that unfortunately because of some good year ago and some kind of dot that would have proved to be certain, whether... individual sports independently some alliances have expanded, but unfortunately since then success has not been and it would only have liked that money to go to those who are meant for, above all, to young athletes and to invest in our future in children. We don't have to say what investment in sports means, in our children's health, when we have results that are defeating children's obesity and what that sport ultimately means in reducing health costs, means in one indirect way. I'd be interested in certain reports like this if I could see how our national alliances spend these funds, because I think it's one part that... has very little, you're just allocating it based on certain criteria, which is what I'm interested in is whether 4.5 million kuna in basketball alliances are a little bit, but I'd like it to be a lot more, but when we look at the rest of them it's not small money, and unfortunately, for a long, long time, no results. So much mentioned sports television. I understand the meaning of popularising certain sports, do you know how you do it, when you achieve some result whether at a world, European or an Olympics or a championship then this is how children in those best years when they have to decide on a sport for 9 to 13 years if it's not a sport, of course, if we're not talking about gymnastics or something that needs much sooner or athletics then that kind of folk dictionary burns for that sport. And suddenly you come when there's a handball championship on the playground and you see that they don't play little football all of a sudden let the kids play handball by some of their own rules. That's the point, and that's supposed to be the point of that television. Of course, it can hardly be profitable if we are talking about such “lower sports, ” but it must have a service of its kind whether public service, whether these public services and, of course, it must be absolutely at some stage. I understand why the Olympic Committee has set out to popularize these sports, only it must be tried to be as acceptable as possible to the wider spectrum of viewers, of course through the ratings. It states that it is 12, and in this report at national level, so whether it is good or bad we will see it. We have a situation where the public service of the national house is losing our right to transfer certain championships that we will only be able to watch if we pay for some expensive monthly or annual contracts for different operators, so when we observe it understandably is why we may not have any results here either. As far as everyone's purpose is concerned, when we look down, they must be above all I've listed children and the number of children involved in a particular sport, it must be... So units of local self-government must not finance professional sport, it is known, but most often precisely with these units, cities above all and the municipality is the foundation of the classification of individual clubs success above all when we talk about some first team that is in a way not professionals, but in ways that the law allows them to make certain payments, scholarships, scholarships, tuitions, food supplies etc., etc. how some players or players are paid or at least get some compensation. In my opinion, we have to start from below with the number of children, whichever club employs more children and interests more children, it has the right to as much financial compensation as possible from the city, from the alliances of its city, county and then, of course, the Olympic Committee, which includes when certain results are shown and it should, but we need more work on the system so that we don't happen by accident than to be the result of... the product of the system, and not of individual individuals and enthusiasts as is now top sport. Of course we're a sports nation, do I think these numbers to have and these results are absolutely clear to everyone. But we have to have that system, that system has to be based. Of course politics should get out of sports, but sport is unsustainable without policy or state budget or local communities. One Real Madrid sold its stadium to the city if it couldn't maintain it. So what sport here in Croatia could build itself a gym or a football stadium or any other resort where he performs his own competitions. Of course we have to take that role as a state I speak and of course it must be a system of clear and thoughtful policies and programmes and investments in sport and in all infrastructure. And I remember in Osijek 15 years ago, 20 years ago when I was playing was one hall, one hall that wasn't a school hall. And somehow sport, basketball, was much better, much better. In some municipalities there were certain clubs that even shared more money. So, about the budgets of the clubs themselves. So, as it all went down in the crisis, that's how, of course, that sport got hit, and that's where we have to popularize. And the way the Sport Financing Act was proposed here, absolutely crucial, and the strategy because we have to give these frameworks, we need to know what our priorities are, they must be children, those who hire children most in their sports collective, they must be the most monitored, no matter what the results of professional teams or, first teams are. It will come in itself, but not someone who collects one for 15 children's norm, 20 of which does not pull them off the street just to have a certain categorization with his alliance. And we've got stuff like that. We have where sport started to be its own purpose or more people who work out of sports live, not live for sport. And there's the results that we saw where people live. I know countless of my colleagues who were both Olympics, and champions and won medals that today simply no one lives on that sport but it is a great and important experience in his life. But most of these 90 percent of sports aren't that you can live professionally and make a career. But that doesn't mean they need to be thrown away, they need to be stimulated and encouraged. To these massive and team sports that everyone knows about and that we all root so warmly for when they appear anywhere. But we need to know what's behind it. We need to know that sport must not happen by chance, that individuals will always have people who will sacrifice everything to develop and enable all the potential of their child who obviously recognize it and to develop it, but the system must, your task absolutely is that when someone shows up to follow it, but try to make such a system that such people themselves will have no one behind it to stand who finances. Here's the thing, we all remember the story and I'll end up with it, Drazen Petrovic, who went to pre-school training, in the gym, so I've been training, and then so on. And that's all praiseworthy, but I'm asking you, so who can come to the gym and kick the ball in the basket? Not everyone can. By the way, no one without a specific program, no lease, etc. He was lucky enough to see what we got. And this way he can't, not everyone can leave. So I was the director of a company that ran halls and a series of sports facilities of all sports that exist in the city of Osijek, of course not everyone can go into the hall however they want and want, that it must be a system. Especially when there was only one. So I say a lot of things can be done and should, a lot of things can have benefiti from sports, I think it's clear to everyone, but first of all we have to look at that level, I'm not saying that it's just a question of the Croatian Olympic Committee, but let's reward those who work, who get together, who sacrifice, and not that we have clubs and just some hyperinflation clubs, you know you have one club that gets big, and then they get into a fight, so they split up, so now we're going to make two clubs, so I'm looking for a city term, so I'm looking for funding, and then I'm looking for three clubs. So clucking, crinkling, crinkling just so someone could take their own membership fees because the same thing all the time while the city of the Olympic Committee, county, city alliances finance certain clubs they're taking membership fees for what they're indirectly paid out of government money. And all right. But that must be the basis of the number of children, they must be going, to attend, to be followed by results, growth, height, weight, certain technical skills results every 6 months. Then when we do it as a system that's huge from individual work, then we'll be able to say that we're a sports nation and that we know exactly at every moment that I'm asking you here that you have 128 thousand children who are doing it and who did it in that year. The other 203,000 to do that, too. We can't know that today, and that's the problem. It's not something you can do overnight, but it's something you need to take care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64076	Thank you. We've got one replica, the esteemed mistress Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64077	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Curai, here I have listened carefully to your debate and you have looked back here at one important thing, and that is the number of children in sports. Of course, by reading this report, I've seen a lot of incentives here that are from kindergarten and beyond. Here last year, about 15 thousand children participated in the Olympic children's festival, sports significance. We see through a series of programs, and of course we're all aware that the criteria should be the number of children in all sports, and that's how we should value it. Of course, I have to look back on all these medals that were brought from Rio and, of course, commend them. I see that here according to this report, of course the number of women is much smaller than the number of men in sports, we should encourage women, of course, not to be engaged in so much sport but probably with all the obligations they have that they certainly do less than men do. But here I come from the county, which has carried out a lot of athletes starting with those footballers Mandjukic, Olic, even those perhaps less attractive sports. However, I must commend our Kaiakas, or cocoa clubs that we have in our Brod-Posavina County, which in the last few years bring so many successful results where they promote both our city and our county. And here I stand, of course, as my colleague Curaj said to be worth it, means that the criteria are the schools of these young generations because from that everything is going on and of course we should work to improve the opportunities in sport, so starting with the local but also this national level because we have a lot of environments where these athletes don't have the conditions for normal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64078	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64079	Yes, thank you, colleagues. So, why kids, so because it has to be the basis for every investment in sport, and that's where it starts, and that's where it all ends. So tomorrow these children will be people who will participate fully in all the social events in this country and sports, of course, and we call them people. And I think that's one direction in which, not because we're too smart and we need to keep warm water, but because, you have now, today, in serious countries, which are seriously engaged in certain sports, it's going so far that people are already looking around the world, children of 6, 8, 9 years of age, projections of their growth. It goes so far, at medical level, that certain, dentists, engage to approximately at certain levels, professional and scientific assess their growth. So it's absolutely something that's already going on. So we have to start looking like that, we have to invest there. I was a winer and be careful, at the lowest level as he looks at it, the coach, who is, like, a trained coach and that's what HOO does well to participate safely and finance the coach, we always lack quality coaching staff. Just because someone trained a certain sport doesn't mean he can be a coach. No, pedagogy, no good coach. Someone's looking at 30 kids, they need to be cut to 20, of course now these selections are gone, because there's so much hyperinflation of clubs, that everyone just wants as many kids to take membership fees, that's the same negative term. And then he looks at what's good for him, to make a score in that year, not what's going to be good for 3 years. So we systematically have to turn to not so many results and watch only where we have the results of professional sports, or, respectively, a team and private teams and especially individuals, but let's go provide children with all possible infrastructure to develop and work, whether their parents can finance it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64080	Thank you. We're done arguing. Here, Agent Pernar wants a break. We continue with an individual debate, esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64082	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the HoO report, we can't, and we can't, in my opinion, touch a bad situation in our sport and now I'm separating the results of individuals and when I'm talking about medals on the OI, they're usually just individuals from small sports that are a little invested in, and they've mostly invested in themselves. So these are enthusiasts, athletes who in some way try to achieve a top score in their sports, perhaps the only good thing that's happened over the past few years with regard to the Olympic athletes is what we've said before and what we've brought in, and that people deserve a certain amount of compensation if they achieve a top score at the Olympic Games and on that side probably the motivation of those people would be much less likely to endure their entire sports age in these sports days, that there are no such stimulants, or that they don't see that society has decided to reward them in some way for their efforts that they have and that they can't be returned materially through their sports careers because they're simply not in sports that make big profits and in which they're turning big money. And that is why we should not be surprised that we are particularly sensitive here when it comes to spending public money and when it comes to the tens of millions of kunas that are reportedly irrevocably lost through projects that are not nearly supported by anyone in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia's Olympics were clearly determined on sports television, for years we listened to and discussed and relations between Croatian Olympics towards the Olympic Committee and incomprehension, which led to so much money being invested in one failed project, and on the other hand that Olympic sports had once not had adequate support or had to intervene even from the budget stock to achieve the activities that were planned. I do not have to stress in particular that the celebrated Olympics, so Mr. Bukic or Mr. Paškvalin, who has warned about things on the Olympic Committee for years, and who we will all admit is a well-indebted Croatian sport, has said that they do not say this because of a certain personal animosity towards someone on the Olympic Committee, but simply do not believe in the quality of public money management that is happening there. And that is why we have to point out here, and we have to point out once again that the Croatian Government is aware of it, so in this year's opinion on the HOO report, the government has found that the losses of HOO TV amount to 80 million kuna, and when you look at it, that's exactly what the amount is invested annually in programmes or even a smaller amount of 68 million kuna in the programmes of national sports alliances. So in a few years we spent four, five years, spent, I'd say we lost money, which national alliances get we're not in one but maybe a year and a half. And now when you ask the question of what the system is and why no one reacts, so it's logical that if you give money and transfer the rules how you help someone within your organization, that people expect money, so we saw it now a few days ago in the Football Alliance where after the Football Club Cibalia responded to the shameful trial that took place in Zapresic, where the Vinkovac club was damaged and said a certain message to HNS that I won't pass on here, but you can assume that there was a state of player or what they sent to HNS, the next day HNS reacted to surprise them with their reaction, given that HNS paid them 400 thousand kuna in advance from TV rights. So they don't communicate with them, whether it's a fair trial, whether the relationship in sport is like that, whether someone got inadequate help rather than telling them you got the money in advance, so what are you complaining about, or if it's the message next time you need it, you won't get the money in advance. So that's the situation in our sport today. Unfortunately, we have the feeling that this is the situation in all alliances. So the roof organization, let's say, in this case, the Olympic Committee decides how much money the alliance needs to get, these people get the money, and then it's kind of illogical to question what they're just afraid of whether they're going to get the money or not, it's illogical to question these situations that happen within the Olympic Committee. And it would be much more logical for the state to have direct funding for sports alliances, to know clearly the transparent criteria by which that money will be realised and that people have no problem with whether or not they will resent any powermaker who decides tomorrow, not only how much money they will get but also when they will get it. So Mr. Chop here can say the money is gone, as they will say from the Bridge Alliance represented by Mr. Matesha that they will know whether it's true or not. It's this dependent relationship that we've developed not only here but also in the Football Alliance, so it's a system that chooses itself. We've seen that in some other associations, for example in the Chamber of Commerce, it's all the same model, I choose you, you choose me public money is spent, supported and ultimately existed and operated within a certain time. Is this measureable, tell me, is it measureable that Glasnović will shoot at the gold trap and that it is now the success of the Olympic Committee whether this is really the result of the Olympic Committee's work of making a result and what in lying about when he knows about himself and his family in that sport? Is this really the result of the Olympic Committee, or these 70 million kunas we invested in 2016? The question is raised here, and there will always be a question of the purpose of this money, and there is no need to be surprised then or the people of the Olympic Committee when questions and wages are asked here. So it's illogical really illogical for public sources to pay the salaries higher than the prime minister's, I think we have to admit it here, it's illogical. So it's not just a system in the Olympic Committee, but it's also in other organisations, i.e. institutions in the Republic of Croatia, which exist for themselves, they're financed mostly from public money, and in the end they have, I would say, benefits and situations, which are not in line with society or with the times in which we live. And that's why these questions will always be asked here, because that's a logical question. So, you can't say that it's not a logical question, if it's the same information as it is, and hopefully you'll deny it or you'll say it's not like that anymore, because it's a three or four-year-old fact that the person who runs the Olympic Board is more paid than the Croatian president and the Croatian president. That's really illogical. And on the other hand, I understand that there are great interests in both sports and the Olympic Committee, but when public money has been spent, transparency must be in the first place, and this is also pointed out by Plenkovic, this year in his opinion, which says that the Olympic Committee must make additional organisational efforts to increase the transparency of its work and full compliance with applicable laws, sublegal acts and planning documents. So it's a message, not only to the opposition, it's a message and the diameter of Plenkovic and I ask you to understand it that way, because it's in the interest, not only of the athletes, but of the institutions themselves. So, on that side, you can't, you can't have, you know, feel, that public money is being spent untransparently, not in accordance with programs and legal provisions, and that has to be corrected. If that doesn't work out, every year the debate will be like this. And until the public picture changes, unfortunately that's how it's gonna be. And to see that something's wrong, you can see that all the money is planned for the promotion, it's going to Sports TV, that's it, HOTV. So, on that side, the impression is cut, that the Olympic Committee could, in terms of promotion, make a program for every year to invest through commercial television and that people would watch more of these little sports, which they were going to promote through sports television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64083	Thank you, colleague Maras. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is from counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you've basically detected that this, uh, it's all about money and it's all about public and transparent spending of money and by certain criteria. And now, you know what I do, this, that same thing, when we talk about sports television, which I'm very interested in, would any person who deals with, say, entrepreneurship at his firm, have a daughter, who's piled up losses year after year, and that parent company is constantly giving guarantees to that company's daughter and is questioning its business, its liquidity and its general future. As much as any private contractor would hold that company's daughter and pile up loses or close her up. Now, that's the case with sports television. So here also the Prime Minister Plenkovic sends a message like this, leading sports television and functioning by the Olympic Committee, endangers the future of Croatian sport and needs in Croatian sport in the future. Get a move on and give us some concrete plan. We still haven't received a concrete answer, as you gentlemen from the Olympic Committee will make sports television start working without loss, here it is at zero. It doesn't have to have profit, it doesn't expect or that gain, that this loss is minimal. Maybe half a million, a million, not 20 million a year. You haven't said at any point, here's our plan for the next five years how we're going to cut our losses. The only thing you're saying is we finance it from our own resources, it's our means, and it's going to be good in the future. I haven't seen you for the last five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64085	Thank you for the reply to the replica, colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64086	Thank you very much. Well, I mean, the answer is probably also imposed in this 2016 analysis. means obviously the Olympic Committee always plans funds for promotion programmes, sports through the media to invest in the project until it is resolved. Now, given that the debt to the Bank is still more than 30 million kuna, as long as it is sustainable, it depends on the agreement with the Bank of Commerce and we see that in 2016. Payed 3 million and 600,000 almost kuna. So this very data imposes on you the idea, that promotion that de facto of the sports television project is spent 20 years of money for promotion in a few years of loss in sports television. What I think is that basically here in a hurry tried to patch up the whole story. Someone stepped behind the Sports Television project, he was a failure, he wasn't in my opinion, he was supposed to finance the Olympic Committee's money this way. I mean, not only for me, but for the people who are involved in sports, who have criticized it. There's been a lot of criticism in that account, and this is now just a way of ironing it out, but it's going to take years and years, to see that things aren't working there, it's been reported that last year, for example, six months. They didn't pay people their salaries at H.O.V. So that's what the IRS published on their pages as employers who didn't pay their wages and that's enough signal. So there's very difficult sustainability in this kind of business, and it's probably never going to be sustainable, and this is just a way to take care of something that's collected in a few years of debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64087	And the last replica, fellow Muscle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64088	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I would say, that in our sport not everything is as black as here and talk and not good, that there is something there and something good, means that our sports achieve certain results, however, it cannot be done without certain alliances, Olympic alliances or football alliances. You mentioned Cibalia earlier, from where I am from Vinkovci, however, one penal or some kind of offence cannot be blamed by the alliance. The Maradona gave the World Cup a goal, so what's the blame of the entire world alliance? Well, that's not true. Yeah, there's something I'd agree with if it wasn't good in sports, so in the end, you had Minister Jovanovic who said dry the swamp, so in the end there was what was left. No one's going to say that, say, the Football Federation invested in Gunje I don't know how many millions or in Rachinovci's investments, it's silent, that paper won't say, it won't praise. But all that's negative, of course, it's going to go public. I don't defend the Alliance, I don't defend sports, but there's a leak. We have, for example, in football failures where young players are craftsmen, where certain people have not paid them or certain clubs as an example of Split, where people are on top, and here is the Alliance's fault for me. Let's change that law, and if one of the first leaguers can't finance his 20s, 22 men and pay for them, he shouldn't be a first leaguer. In my opinion, I'm against the fact that someone can't leave. Second thing, we have the judiciary as it is, certain people have been suing for 10 years. So what's the question? The question is the judiciary is not a question of people. If they're not guilty of release, if they're guilty, you know what to do. Therefore, we must have one legal state and spend money as well as the Olympic Alliance and other spending there should the state go in and see if it's transparent. We can talk like this or like that and say, these are thieves, these lie, in the end we as a Croatian small nation have exceptional athletes, certainly thanks to the Football Federation and the Olympic Union. It's certainly...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64089	Thank you. Your time is up. Replication response, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64090	Thank you very much. In principle, I agree with you. What does it even mean that it's not all about sports? Well, the results of those you listed, the results from the Olympics in Rio, they're certainly not black. The Plasma team is in Russia for next year's World Cup absolutely not black. But that doesn't mean that these alliances, these systems are managed well. So we were incredibly fortunate, for example, with a football team where until the players rebelled and everyone in Croatia felt that they essentially removed Mamic's menu, Mr Ivankovic, or Ivankovic, Cacic's pardon, yes. So the players rebelled simply he no longer had authority and fortunately this Finac was stuck in Rijeka, no, and after that there was a change, Mr. Dalic came and the team showed what quality he had. Is that Mr. Shucker and Mommy's work? I think everyone in Croatia knows it's not. Is it possible to get him out of there, by any democratic means? I think everyone in Croatia knows it's not. So that's impossible. I choose you, you choose me, it's the system there. So the people who run the alliances also exist from the money given to them by the Croatian Football Federation. So the message to players and Club Cibalija is very clear, criticise once again not getting the money until the last time we don't have to pay you. Such a relationship that is dependent on both smaller clubs and the county alliances normally creates immeasurableness and that it is a Pharaohic system that works with Mr. Shucker in the Football Alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64091	Thank you. The next individual debate is a debate from counterpart Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Usually reports discussed by the Croatian Parliament and concluded on their adoption and failure to adopt them are an opportunity to pay a little more attention to some issues once a year. A report on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee is an opportunity to pay more attention once a year than usual to sports. It turns out we haven't done this in the last few years, so tonight we have a united discussion about 2014, 2015 and 2016. So let's see what happened about Olympic sports in those three years. So we had one winter, one summer, one winter, one summer Olympic game, then some Olympic games of young people, then various universities of winter, summer, countless world, European championships, world cups and elite competitions. Of course, given the number of inhabitants Croatia is one of the most successful sports nations in the world, it is statistically relatively easy to prove. Something deserved talent, something deserved probably to manage these talents, but it's impossible not to notice a certain coincidence. So, in 2014, the Olympic medal winner at the winter Olympics was named the same as his sister today, the secretary of state who won it years ago. That the oarsmen of gold from Rio have the same name. That the conqueror of the gold Olympic medal in the men's trap in the shooting is also named as another contestant who did not win the Olympic medal, but is also successful in the discipline. It depends, therefore, on some family work, or most often on the work of their parents, who, when they reach some level, then get some kind of state aid system. What sports have we won these 10 medals in Rio? So, shooting, rowing, athletics, sailing and water polo. In rowing and sailing two. The fact is that the Olympics have passed, so thanks to the public television enthusiasts who, otherwise, are political journalists who followed the sailing competition have also experienced a slightly greater popularity. However, the fact also that in sailing traditionally at the Olympic Games we were always close to the medal so that now in Rio it finally came to us that we had won some medals. We probably won't listen much more to our sailors until the next Olympics, or watch TV. Probably the same goes for rowers, except for that one regatta a year when the world rowing championship doesn't get us too much on TV either. Athletics only when the world championship and the Olympic Games, the diamond league is already on commercial television. And there are still some water polo sports that are back on commercial television in this club section, and sometimes the national team gets a seat on national television. So I personally support the idea that Croatia has one specialized sports channel for the so-called so-called sports channel. Small sports, however, I believe that this should be part of a public service, so what sports television now needs to have as a 5th, 6th or 12th programme, and that these are places where these talented individuals from small sports should get their window to the public that they may be a little interested in sponsors and that Croatia and in these sports that they too become a topic of daily debate. Croatia has several medals in taekwondo, for example, also very few people know the rules of the sport, and on TV you can't see it again except when the Olympic Games are. Croatia had an Olympic medal in Biathlon when from Jacob Fak, now the performance for Slovenia returned to the top, when he won the World Cup then it was in Korea, so it was learned in the morning people asked if it was a true world championship or someone for younger categories. Croatia has a large number of talented young people who win medals at junior championships, at cadet championships in various sports, the question is whether they can move forward if they are being followed. And for this reason, I believe that Croatia needs a single sports channel of this kind, but I still think that it should be on public service to finance it from the subscription, not from the funds that the state allocates for Croatian sport and what the government wrote is basically true. So the fact is that these losses put normal further functioning at risk. We haven't talked much about school sports either, I think we should put a special accent there. There are these sports games of young people, but it's the work of a group of enthusiasts again. Well, the other part of my final debate, I'd just like to mention in 2015 we passed the Sports Act, and in fact it was all about the football debate. In 2014, we discussed the Law on Associations, most of the debate concerned sports associations. In the end we had a debate here, a colleague Shucker was directly involved in this on the application of the Sport Act in relation to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests and so on. depoliticization, depoliticization in sports. At that time, counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash resigned as a member of the Sailing Alliance, and colleague Shuker was not in the basketball alliance, so we had different criteria there as well. So the fact is that the most famous sports alliance, the national HNS networked to the members of a party who took control so much I choose you, you choose me that even the president of their party no longer has the influence to put them in order, and that's actually just confirming the fact that even in sport, the Olympic Committee and sports alliances and the county sports alliances and these associations within the county became a state in a single circular state, a circular flow of money where it goes from the budget to them, then they're networked and they have influence on power and then each on their side gives some more public money to a sport that's not being spent the way it should be spent. Therefore, a copy of the relations within the HDZ party relations to HNS best demonstrates how many structures in sport are closed and how much of those countries are still affected by the external influence on which this type of external influence can no longer be exercised. So the elections don't match anyone, they answer to themselves, that 80% of the public wants or more of one candidate who doesn't even stand a chance of being a candidate compared to another, that they exist in the Croatian Football League which is otherwise not broadcast on public television but also commercially, there are two exposures of the same club and one club at the beginning with 12 points of advantage over the other, and that's also a special question. But the fact that there's no place where they take bills. They account for themselves and it's impossible for someone outside that system to threaten them and shift them. And therefore, of course, I absolutely believe that there should be major changes in this regard. Finally, I hope that we will be able to follow the report for 2017 in the normal atmosphere and in the normal schedule, so somewhere at the end or mid- 2018, and until then I want to resolve this issue of Sports TV and to have the public service take over and take over its part of the responsibility. In fact, this week we can watch the World Club Championships at public service. Today, a Mexican and Brazilian champion seems to me, tomorrow Real Madrid against someone, and the Champions League and what is actually a greater public interest we can't watch on public service, and I don't think we're going to be able to do the Euro 2018 either. Here's the fact that in three years, then consider me to be talking about each of them for 3.5 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64093	You're beautiful. Thank you. We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is from a colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64094	Thank you very much, Mr. Bauk. In your debate, you mentioned that most when changes to the Law on Sports were discussed, the desire to make more transparency and choices than ever before, but it was forgotten that, with the number of members of the Assembly, to define and the way of the running procedure, because while the number of members of the assembly was increased from 49 to 59 and the composition was changed in such a way that not all members of the County Football Federation which are under control absolutely in most cases of HDZ, in the running procedure it was put at the will of the Football Federation and there was such a procedure that if the president of the Football Federation or candidates could become only a person who received the support of 9 county football alliances, the maximum number of candidates was 2 and it is not impossible to do what happened and in the case of Davor Schuker was just 1 candidate, since if you get more support from 13 or more of the county alliances could no longer be against them. So, you see how they figured out how to play the law intensities that were passed and how to further shut themselves into their system, and also Mr. Kustic, who famed him as a candidate one possible for the president when he realized he couldn't, probably, get the support of so many county alliances, probably the man pulled the candidacy or patted him on the shoulder and told him the time would come next time, be patient for another four or two years, and you're next. That sort of thing works out over there. It's unfortunately something that's not good and needs to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64095	Thank you, reply to the replica, here's your colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64096	So if I were to give legal advice to someone who wants to, then the fact is that no one can become president of the football union if they don't get a majority in the assembly, that's 30 and some votes, I think. If there is a majority in the congregation this second, let him change the statute and then he can run, so it's not even so dramatic. Mr. Shuker, am I a good interpreter? If most congregations want to change the statutes, they can do so on the spot. ... What, what? [[You can't hear it.]] Well, in that case, they don't have to elect a president. So, the fact is that the amendments to the law are clubs, so quality holders get the same influence in the assembly as representatives of the alliance. So here are the first leaguers have 20 members together, and the county football alliance has 21. So far, I think it's been done a lot differently. Whether they will choose this or that, it may not be so important in another country and there is only one here, yes, but I find it more interesting that how the running procedure went because in the county alliances, the HDZ network is quite well organized and they have just been organised to give a public shower to their party president who says one thing, they make another, but that's their problem now, let them argue about it. I hope I get a replica on that and we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64097	Thank you, Agent Bauku. The next replica is from a colleague of Shucker's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64098	Thank you very much. Dear Bauk, you mentioned the amendment of the Law on Associations 2014, the amendment of the Sport Act 2015,... You could do this all you talk about today all day you could regulate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll discuss it more in my individual discussion. However, someone when changing the law on sports did not have the courage to write a single sentence which is that officials cannot be in... And now watch what happens to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Article 14(5) that an official may be the head of two associations, for which he must not receive compensation, it says in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and in the Law on Sports you are being chased by companies and associations. And now look, since I've been going through what I've been going through, I'm simply an inspection finding there some Bandic's inspections, an inspection from the Ministry of Sports, I filed a lawsuit with the administrative court. And you know what? I got a lawsuit in the administrative court, and you know why? Because they said that the Association's sports associations are not companies and that they can say that you can't be at the head of a company, and he says in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest that an official can be in the Supervisory Board of Commerce if these companies are of particular interest. I'm just telling you that we are you, that I'm going to talk more about in my individual debate, that we're laying down the rules of the game, no one else determines them, and if we haven't determined them, we don't have the right to say things that we haven't been able to do today morally. And remember colleague Bauk, as well as under whose initiative and which representative, no longer here, was the initiator of amending the Law on Dispute and he only changed for one man, only for one man. A colleague Jurkovic, he is with a fans' association, but it was a law that was only against one man, as soon as he passed such a law, you were immediately sentenced to failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64099	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64100	Due to historical truth, the promoters were also colleagues of Peđa Grbin and colleagues Marija Lugarić, and he would be me but I was then a minister, I was not a representative, then neither would Mr Jurkovic be, so it is true that he was encouraged by an association of fans and I know exactly when I was at that meeting and was, so it is not disputed. I must agree with you that the Law of Sports should have made it more clear whether or not I could be in charge, then it was clear, then at the moment of your election, the city office would not have made a decision that you could, nor would the sports inspection have ordered the city's office to end it in court, and then the court actually did and then the court actually went to interpret what the Parliament wanted or didn't want. So, that is, I normally hold the view that in Croatia the main body is still the government of the Parliament and the Government, not the courts. That the courts have a task to verify and determine whether what the Parliament has brought is being carried out or violated. And if it violates to impose sanctions. Thus, in that sense, I can fully agree with you that this law should have made it more clear, not with such a provision that is very perverse and that can indeed be interpreted in many ways, most often as to whom it suits is the worst of interpretation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64101	Next replica from fellow Kustic Marijana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64102	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bauk, here's my colleague Shucker already took most of my replicas. I wanted to point out you have listed now just before choosing this election process in the Croatian Football Federation. It is this law that the SDP has passed, and by this principle we are choosing now and this president. And we did even then, not all of us, but we rebelled against it. Because it is not normal for a first league club that has 40 registered players or 50, has two votes in the Croatian Football Federation Assembly, and an example of a county alliance has one vote and has 150 clubs and 1200 registered players. Is that right? Of course it's not right. That's what we objected to. And I was talking, but I think you don't remember that, Mr. Bauk, when you were a minister, because we've often met in a loin on the Man. In those lodges where they said the mob was sitting football and so on. You were sitting there, too, and we met and we talked once and I wasn't even in politics. But I will, we keep mentioning HDZ, HDZ. Even Mr Plenkovic does not interfere in this election, he gave his opinion that we support. And I'm the first one to say the one from the executive board structure that talked and said there should be a change. He wants to remain Davor Shuker, here we saw the other day and a comment of the prominent fire-fighting December, who said no matter who will be president of the Alliance but within the Alliance there must be changes. We'll see what happens. But this is an election process where according to law, according to the new law, which the SDP has just passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64103	Thank you. Here's a reply to my friend Bauk's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64104	As a rule, the Parliament adopts electoral laws which have been observed or have no objections, and we can really discuss whether it is more appropriate for those who have had a greater influence or that the base, clubs, have a greater impact. In the end, every little club that's better ends up in this big one then goes abroad, as a rule. Therefore, it is now indeed a matter of legitimate debate. Because it was the same question, so does anyone who has 100 clubs have three, this one had two, is that fair ratios? I don't know, so it's the same debate. Or maybe it's better if all the registered members of the Alliance choose one vote, maybe that's the solution. Then those structures would already be in danger. Maybe that's fairer than this. But it doesn't matter. So, as far as my stay in the lodge on the Man. If I only knew how to watch Heiduk on Man at European games, I'd admit it. But I've never been outside of that HNL I'm not from the lodge it seems like I've never seen it before. Well, no, it's just like that, so it was... I didn't, I haven't since 2003. So I prefer to go check out basketball, it's, I used to be a basketball judge and I like basketball a little more sport. So I never escaped from Sinj from the hall. [[Intruder, not understood.]] So, as far as the situation in the Football Alliance is concerned, he is the most exposed to the public inciting the most emotion, I don't think that story will end with this choice either. But that's my humble attitude now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64105	Thank you. And the last replica is a replica from counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, you have said that the Football Federation is state-owned, and the same can be applied to the Olympic Committee. And why do you get that impression? So you see if you have one association that is a roofing association of Croatian sports and four years in a row the Croatian Parliament does not vote on their report, programme and financial report, two years of voting against it, two years it takes note. And after that nothing happens to anyone, then it's definitely the state of the country. If the Prime Minister says that the Football Alliance needs to see a window and something needs to be changed, and most of its party members are sitting in the leadership, and no one listens to it, but after that, they all support exactly what the prime minister said it needs to be ventilated, then it's a state in the country. And then they don't protect, they don't fermise the Prime Minister, they don't protect anyone else. It is sad that we with the laws have to prescribe rules in sports at all and that we have to tell people who run Croatian sports today how to behave, it is sad. Because in a normal state under normal circumstances, they themselves would know how to behave, what to do, the Parliament shouldn't prescribe them at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64107	Would you like an answer? Nothing. Thank you. We're on our way to the last individual debate. It's a debate from a colleague named Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64108	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee with his associates. I honestly say after this debate, I ask myself what we're discussing. Why? Because we're the ones who set the rules of the game. And we haven't talked about the Croatian Olympic Committee at all today. We talked about some national alliances and we pretend to be deaf, blind by healthy eyes, next to healthy ears. So let's see who determines how these sports associations will be organised. Does that determine the Law of Associations? Does the Sports Act prescribe any rules? Because after the election assembly, the one chosen must register with the register of associations in the State Administration Office? He has to. Because it must adopt statutes that these must verify that it is in accordance with specific legal provisions. And if that's the case, then we're the ones who set the rules of the game. It's no one else. And then we have to criticize ourselves. It's another thing to talk about HDZ concentration. Well, look, a football player like me in Gorica has a football center, has a County Football Federation and eventually has this General Assembly of the Football Federation. Well, look, there are delegates from that club in the football center. They choose their people for the county alliance. The county alliance comes to the national alliance, and the national alliances are re-delegated by people who come to the assembly of the Croatian Olympic Committee. So no one threw anything. And if you have a bunch of SDPs active in sports clubs, then HDZ can't vote them out. So that's a fact. So much for this regulatory part that we're deciding on. No one else. But what I'm trying to say, and that's far more important, which is that without a strategy of sport, without a clear definition of what's amateur, which is a professional sport because we in the first leagues have a bunch of amateurism, half amateurism, professionalism. Look in the basketball league, you have one real professional that's Cedevita, and this is all quiet anger and horror. It's the same thing as handballs. In the football league, it's not much better either, it's facts. And that just after the strategy in sport offers us that we have to pass the Sport Fund Act. Because if we don't bring it in, we're gonna have total chaos. Not only the Law on Sport Financing, but also the tax status of those fees paid by athletes on the one hand by amateurs, on the other. And also the tax status of those fees of 20, 30, 50 or 100 kuna received by officials at official competitions. These are things we have to define. Because if we don't define those great sports enthusiasts, we're putting them in a very difficult situation. So that's two things we have to do. Next thing. Sports infrastructure. So who's responsible for her? Is it the Croatian Olympic Committee? Are they national alliances? Who in their congregations makes a decision each year when adopting a budget and a programme to satisfy the common communities in sport? Well, local self-government units. Is there going to be a gym next to a school? Whether the Ministry of Education will assist the local self-government unit is irrelevant. But it's important that she be made. And this sports infrastructure facility is basically owned by the founders of that school, i.e. units of local self-government. Now, it's up to us to organize that sport. Whether through school sports companies that will be one mass framework and pull out what is best quality and push into competitive form, this should be adopted by the Strategy on Sports. But we can't say we don't have enough gyms. It's just not right for those gyms to be using 8, 9 hours of recreation, and you kids have to pick up at 10, 11 o'clock to go from practice. So these are facts. Football stadiums, you practically don't have a single club that owns a stadium. They're all owned by cities. And without infrastructure, there's no sport. Today it's easier for kids to be with a computer or something. We used to if we didn't leave – that's Ivo – if we didn't go to basketball, we didn't have any kind of fun. So these are basic things when we talk about sports. Because if we're not going to solve these problems, we colleagues and colleagues can argue that in this alliance, HDZs, HNSs, SDPs, I think it's totally irrelevant. And now look at one thing. You have a great result of sports players and you have a situation like this that's created the way it's created. But look, these people have been chosen. Somebody try to change things differently, it'll be different. Or, say, I can't talk about sports without touching my sport. Until in Split, in Zadar, there is basketball rising to a higher level, we will have what we have and whoever does not see it is a dead end. Who doesn't see that is a dead end. All of our greatest players in history, not counting Nikola Plečav, Damir Šolman, have annulled practically in these Dalmatian cities that is a fact. But to talk about sports the way we talk here today, not to talk about how to turn that sports television into something better because it's spent so much millions. Or eventually, if someone really thinks you shouldn't say, you shouldn't. But using sports television as a tool to deal with someone is simply not good. Did we speak critically today whether this 100, 110, 120 million that the Croatian Olympic Committee gets from gambling fortunately enough to have the quality that we have? Unfortunately, we're not. Why? Because we're negative, and sports don't admit to the negative. Sports only admits positive. If you have positive energy, if you have a positive charge, then you have a sports result. And today we're just acting the way sports shouldn't behave. And many crises, many things, and finally heretically we have been treating the Croatian Olympic Committee for 4.5 years. Also, by not adopting the 2012 report, Mr Matesha and his team wanted to be removed. And when another report doesn't adopt and someone moves, it's political pressure. Now, that's what's not good. We talked here today that the Croatian Olympic Committee needs to find ways to secure so much funding that this Olympic Academy rises to some higher level, no one mentioned today what it did with Bjellosica. Some used to live on that white-haired woman, earning money on the white-haired girl. Well, he didn't mention it today in a single word in the debate. My colleagues and colleagues, we mention handball halls. So where would the European Handball Championship be? Where would a music star concert be in Split if you couldn't sell 12, 13 thousand tickets? In the Zagreb Arena, if you can't sell 15, 16 grand, who's going to finance that if you can't sell the tickets? Now the other thing is, how do we manage these sports facilities? Because that Split hall was intended for economic, cultural and various events to be held there as well as in Zagreb. She just has to live all year long because the economy and sport live together. If the economy and sport don't live together, then it's a disaster. And that's what I'm gonna end up with. What happens if three, four public companies stop funding sports? In 2007, 2008 when attacks on public companies were said, you will see what happens when INA, Croatia's insurance stops funding sport. We see what we have today. Get HEP out of INA funding in one piece, JANAF. You'll see what's left of the sport. You today look at every sports event funded by HEP. And that's just proof that we haven't solved the systematic funding of sports. And if you don't have an enthusiast to draw certain sporting events, unfortunately, we won't have them in Croatia. But that's why when Rio happens, when something else happens, when he lights up a gold, silver or bronze medal on the chest of one of our sports heroes, then we all like to paint. And that's what's not good. And I wish this debate of ours had gone in a different direction today, who will be president of the Croatian Olympic Committee will decide the delegates who have already chosen, but simply in such conditions have such great results, I don't think it simply deserves such a debate. Well, at least she deserves to say one little thank you to all those sports enthusiasts, and finally to the leaders of the alliances that led to us having what we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64109	Thank you. We have one replica. It's a replica of Sasa Djujic's colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64110	Thank you very much. You've said a lot, some things I agree with you, but I have some to react to. So first, you say we set the rules of the game and that's true. And unfortunately, we determine the rules of the game when there's a problem and then we have a problem, we set the rules then we overlap the laws because we don't bring it, yes, yes, we don't bring it strategically. But what I came forward for is because you said that a question of HDZ concentration was raised by sports associations and who chooses and who goes. Now, then you've explained to us the whole selection procedure for some people, for example. From a local level from a club, then a county alliance and somewhere. You've been in politics for a long time, much longer than me, I've been more, and longer in sports because you're twice my age, it would be a tragedy if I were more than you in sports. And I've been in sports too long. But you were mayor, you were minister, you know how these things work? You see in my town when HDZ came to power in 2005, you know what they did first? First the mayor called the football club management and said tomorrow he's the club president or you won't get any more money. Then he set up the entire boards of all clubs around the city. And that's how you guys work in HDZ, that's why there's a lot of you out there. That's not how we do things. So, in your cities and municipalities, you put tentacles into associations, clubs, there's no one equal to you. And then place your members in club management, then they pick themselves, then we get to the top where we come from. And then no wonder there's a bunch of HDZs somewhere else. And I don't mind that the HDZs are there if things work out. But unfortunately, colleague Shuker, wherever HDZ is, there's a problem. Whether it's in the state, whether it's in sports, or it's in some public enterprise. And that's why we're talking there. And the difference between us and you is that we're really saying that we're against politicizing sports, and we're up for it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64111	Thank you. The answer to my colleague Shucker's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64112	A colleague, Djujic. What you wouldn't want if you could talk about it by that. So let's not sell ourselves a joke. But working at an amateur club is a huge denial, time from your children, from your family, wire your friends for this, give for that. I said the other day in Parliament, so some smart-ass laughs, Saturday morning, rain falls, fog, you four other people's kids and your kid get in the car and you go to a game. It's a great responsibility, God forbid anything happens. It's a small club. That little club is proposing its delegate to some election assembly. Well, if that HDZ guy is so mean and incompetent, then I hope not all those strong and honest people are going to propose him to him, they're going to propose someone else. Let the story go, anyone can find the money. But the thing is, sacrifice in sports doesn't come like this. As a sports result, so does a sports official. Nothing comes, you must sacrifice, you must give up, you must do. And whoever's preparing her for that, that's what people choose. The one who's not ready for that, people don't choose him. And that's a fact. But look, you've got a lot of people, one of them mentioned here and your colleague Maras, who's unresonally chasing things, they've had opportunities, they've had one object, they could've done miracles there. But the easiest thing to do is chase around and think there's nothing to do up there in the hoo, you come in here sharing money, and you're the man. But it's not exactly like that, ask these people who are here. Everyone already has a lot of internships except for their first young colleague, like me in sports, it's bloody and hard to work. What is experiencing is someone who is principled who wants to make order, it was seen with my status in HKS until I was removed, but in the end one of my great pleasures is that the Administrative Court ruled on my side because what Jovanovic did not dare to make the Sport Act is his problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64113	Thank you, Comrade Shuker. Now the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj is on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64114	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here he asked a fellow Shucker what we're discussing? Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee from 2014 and 2015. I would not agree in this debate with those who say that the sports infrastructure in Croatia was built in the way it was meant to be built. Well, we know that for the handball championship, we all cheered for our team. However, the fact that Zlatko Mateša and the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee were also at the time, that the project, which was built by 4 halls of billions, could have been different. Well, we're not so many countries that all 2/3 of Croatia have no conditions to play sports and make four halls that are now difficult to Croatian sport. They are now weighty in the Croatian budget. They're weighing Split. She's a weight. The town of Split doesn't even know how to get out of that whole story today. Instead of investing that money in Mr. Shucker that it was nice to paint with Ivo Sanader the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee, but the fact is that then the biggest blow to sports and the essence of the Olympic sports Olympics was made. That every man, every child in the Republic of Croatia has the right to the same conditions at least partially, you can't expect in Zagreb, at least partially as in Zagreb. The fact that he got his money into those four projects. The fact that these halls are not cost-effective is the fact that it is a roadblock of development because the billions we are investing today as maintenance costs, loans, beatings, burdens to local self-government that it is a direct blow to sport. Is this money to be invested in sports, in the Olympic essence of the competition in the essence of what was started today would be a much better sport in the Republic of Croatia. At least on condition. We don't have the same conditions today. No seriously fellow Shuker come, I'll take you to the end, I'll take you to the end because you're talking essentially about the facts that are essentially by me not that's funny. I know, you don't have to be nervous. I'm nervous sometimes, too. But the fact is that everything needs to be done in Croatia. That is why the Olympic Committee is responsible naturally. Policy is responsible. You mentioned the infrastructure. I mean, when I see the infrastructure that we have in certain areas where children simply see on television halls with parquet. They're talented kids who might be professional athletes today and tomorrow. If the money had been evenly deployed then, if the local self-governments in Gorski Kotar, Lika, Dalmatinska Zagora, in Slavonia today, these children would have conditions. Maybe we'd be good sportsmen? But today, parents had to borrow at that time, and they had to borrow to enable their children to play sports, to play sports. I'm sorry we don't promote the Olympic spirit, which we only promote those values when someone gets a medal to take pictures with them. We know that in the territory of the Republic of Croatia i.e. Our athletes have excellent results. You should say thank them no thanks to the Olympic Committee because the fact is, here we all mentioned sports television that should be needed. I should have. However, it has caused huge losses that the Croatian Olympic Committee will bear in the end because you guarantee something, which means that you still vouched for something. And I believe that the Croatian Olympic Committee has contributed greatly to the divisions of the north and south. The South has been written off. Heiduk was long gone. It's the same thing. The choices are the same. It is known in advance who is president of the Croatian Olympic Committee, football alliances are predetermined things. There is no democratic procedure that is visible. It is now visible in the Croatian Football Federation, and so is here. I'll tell you honestly everyone here together fellow MPs. As far as sports are concerned, the further south the sadder it is. Even in Dalmatia, there was a blow, an attempt on one of Hajduk's greatest symbols. However, Hajduk lives forever. That was an impossible mission for you. I'm sorry you're sharing North and South, Bad Blue Boys and Torceda, and I hope that the fan groups will be unique in promoting sports, in... democratic procedures in sports and fighting for athletes, and no way for chairers. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64115	We've got one replica of a fellow Bull's exhibit. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64116	To organise a European or world championship held in the hall, you will need to meet certain criteria. So if it's so important to you, why is there such a big deal now, is there going to be one group in Split or is it going to play in Zadar? It's a logical thing to be in Split because such a hall was built there. It's one thing. You see from 2003 to 2009, how many gyms were built, then talk about something. If I'm not mistaken and something was done with the hall in Sinj? Well, after all, with the Sinjans and their basketball, I have far more connections than you do. Far more, surely far more. You don't even know these people, and I have long ties with them. So, don't sell floscules and cools, because Sinjani basketball and Sinjani talent they just have talent and an alkar will live so I don't know where. I'm with Vrcan and a team of hackers out there on that playground when we were coming to the pilgrimage of Sinjska Gossa on that playground outside where basketball was played as in Zagreb played on Youth. But unlike you, I know historical facts and arguments. And you can talk as much as you want, but you can't say that in Osijek that gym doesn't need it because it's also a school gym in Osijek. Well, you mentioned four halls. A hall was built in Varazdin. And you know what's wrong with that hall in Split? Those who set off the hall next to that hall had to build a business tower. You saw that hole there with the iron and so on. In principle, the business tower was to be held financially by that sports hall. And I still say thank God, so Split has the Arena. There'll be a solution. Splitns can have concerts and Splits along with the rest of Croatia will enjoy the handball championship in this group, which is played in Split in the 1st month. And now you can say that the Splits don't need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64117	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64118	So if you have political courage, say in Split you don't need that group.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64119	Thank you. The answer to the replica please, colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64120	Thank you very much. I'm a friend of Shuker's. I'm an alkar's kid. I've just trained Alcara so I think you know about Alkar and Sinj sport probably know a lot through Alkar, we have brand and hero football club, Alkar is mostly that significant, however Sinj forgotten both from the state and from the county regarding co-financing of sports halls. The hall's working the city on its own cargo, they've just all written off, they've raised their hands. And as for these halls you listed, no one is against sports infrastructure, but it wasn't a cost-effectiveness study. You must have 90% of the day, listen, 90% of the day for the halls to be worth it, these large halls of Arena in Zagreb and Split, they must have the fullness of 90 days. Yes, you've done so much damage with this Croatian sport project that you put the last nail in the coffin of Croatian sport. To this he kept quiet, check well which problems Split has, which have other cities, and even Zagreb has that problem. So cost-effectiveness, you were working by order that Ivo Sanader ordered that, but I would personally prefer to have both in Sinj and Gospić and in Senj in the whole area, irrelevantly, throughout the region. I know well that you've invested in smaller neighborhoods... have no conditions to train, get it, don't. You've simply been led by such a policy by investing in such a hall without a cost-effectiveness study, in fact, you've destroyed the athletes mostly this little athlete, I mean people who are recreational and young. Therefore, investments in sports yes, in infrastructure yes, but not in megalomaniac projects like you made that were nailed in a coffin mainly by amateur athletes and...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64121	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Matesha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64122	I don't really know who he'd answer to anymore if the people who asked most of them didn't. First of all, the politicization of the so-called. HoO, of the 16 members of the HoO Council, I am the only one to belong to the party, to this HDZ, to this undiscovered one. To whom belongs Zeljko Jerkov, to whom belongs Sanda Čorak, Morana Paliković, Damir Martin, who are they? The other 14 are not members of the HDZ. What politicalization of the HoO Council are we talking about? If you're talking about some other national alliances, you have to understand that this has nothing to do with us. I mean, or if you want to insist on it as some kind of political debate then that's fine, but it has nothing to do with us, and we have no influence whatsoever. A colleague, to carry on, no member or member of the HoO Council has ever received compensation or received for his work in any form, is prohibited by the International Olympic Charter. The president of the Olympic Committee has never received compensation for his work, it is forbidden by the International Olympic Charter. The members of the Supervisory Board don't receive any compensation for their work, they're all volunteers. For 15 years, HOO has not bought any vehicles, nor has it owned any vehicles. My colleague was talking about some kind of spending on a motor park and I don't know what not. And to finish the story about that part, the esteemed colleague spoke of salaries, the salaries of all employees cost only 6,63% of the cost. There are no public or public companies in Croatia, nor any agency that has a lower share of salaries in total expenditures. So it's really hard to say what the problem is. Another thing that's really hard to convince obvious MPs and MPs is how the Olympic Committee works when it comes to public funds. So I'll do it again if there's nothing else going on. We need to give exactly our programs whether to the Ministry or to the Central State Office for approval. Once they approve, then go the funds and to get the following funds we need to justify all that, give all the documentation for what was previously given. I'm talking about public funds. You will allow us as an association to dispose of the resources we ourselves have, to raise ourselves, and these, as you can see in these years, were between 10 and 17 million kunas. Sports television, the most favorite theme we've heard today. In 2003, HoO first participated in the state concession, awarded a state concession for the sport programme in 2003, then received RTL. In 2006, we wanted to do something that was very good and correctly said colleague Bauk, third sports programme along with HRT, signed the contract. In 2009, the contract was unilaterally broken off on their part, in 2010 the state did not, the state is calling for a concession for a national specialised channel. We appear with the support of all alliances, with the support of the National Sports Council, the state does not say it should not, the state even holds a council with the highest number of points our offer and moves into it. Why? Because we assumed that what's going on today would happen, which I'm going to talk about a little bit more in a second or a minute. The project started, we funded it from our sources, no single lip was spent on the project. Then came a statement by a state official bombing and after that the income of sports television fell by 4 million kuna, which we have the documentation of. Did anything happen after that statement? No, I don't. So then the Sports Inspectorate was sent, and then the High Administrative Court abolished everything that was brought by the Sports Inspector and everything she put on the burden in that report. That verdict, it's public you can easily get it. Now, whose responsibility is it if your income falls by four million kunas, practically overnight? It's none of your business, anyone can say whatever they want, there's no responsibility for a public word. We wanted to keep this project going, and for now, we've kept it going. Well said colleague Bauk and colleague Shuker about the significance of it. You mentioned some sailing, so only on Sports TV can you see sailing, only on it can you see judo, taekwondo, forget when you'll see it on other TVs. And what happens now to colleagues and colleagues in the media space of Croatia? I don't know if you're aware of it, the Croatian National House remains, the Sports Television remains as the only national free... so free channel, change of ownership of New TV, RTL has already been owned abroad, now what we were afraid there would be no more national national representations on national television, that Croatian citizens will have to pay at least 250, 300 kuna per month if they want to watch Croatian clubs or national national teams on television. Where are the right to sporting events involving Croatian clubs? I think that's what you should be worried about right now. Where's the right handball, where's the right to football, where's the right to basketball, where's the right to water polo? Whose Arena is one, two, three, and I don't know which one is the Sports Club? And instead of being reasonable, without politics starting to deal with it, that Croatian citizens who pay clubs to the most extent will not be able to watch more free games of these clubs on national televisions, that is the real question. That doesn't interest anyone. I expected from this debate that someone would say, wait for the people, so we're still talking about 130 million kunas of public money being shared in the way I described it, and nobody's talking about a billion kunas going out of Croatia without any taxes on online betting. Excuse me, someone in this hall would have to talk about it, and someone would have to make sure it didn't happen and that much of it would come to Croatian sport directly. It doesn't matter to us, it doesn't have to go the way of HOO, let it go to clubs, let it go to alliances, but let's not let it drain a billion kuna a year without any taxes, without any giving simply disappear from Croatia. Why don't we talk about the tax treatment of investment in sports, how are private and other companies motivated to invest in sports? By paying 25% of VAT for sponsorship. We've been proposing for years, it doesn't interest anyone at all, that the amount is reduced by the base of profit tax. We expected your support, nobody said a word about it. And you know, we've been doing some tests, let me tell you, for example. one Zagreb club, he pays more VAT and contributes to the state than it is to transfer from the city of Zagreb. So he's more tax-active, he contributes more than he gets. These are the topics for this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64123	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is from a colleague of Pernar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64124	Dear Mr. Matesha. I'm interested in the answer to two questions. The first question is are you ashamed of what your HDZ party has done to our country and what is still doing to our country? And the second question is, did you put or is Marijan Hanžekovic, president of the Sanjka Union just because he is a Mason or a free builder like you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64125	Answer the question, please, Mr. Matesha.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64126	Your Honor. Not that I'm ashamed, I'm proud, is at the time when you weren't in this hall at the time when it wasn't the biggest concern how much I would pull out of the European funds, at the time when it was time to rebuild 100,000 housing units, at the time of my first day in this hall when it took care of 450 thousand exiles and refugees then I'm proud of that time, you came much later. As far as Hanžekovic is concerned, I don't care what he is, the mason, the builder, I don't know the carpenter, it doesn't matter to me if he's called an alliance and we take the people he calls the alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64127	Thank you. The last replica is a replica from counterpart Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64128	Thank you very much. Mr. Matesha, you mentioned in your final presentation that around funding and around public money as if to get you funds from public money you have to justify until then the funds spent or else you can't get a new one and that's true. And I'm going to remind you of the situation from two, three years ago when the ministry denied you the funds because you didn't spend them the way you were supposed to spend them, then you sued a state official and spoke through the media, doing the pressure saying here you don't give us the money, the ministry won't give us the money and our athletes won't be able to go to the Olympics. That's how you do it when you don't work transparently and when the government cut off your funds then you do media pressure. Now sell us a story like this here, so we have to do everything legally. The second thing, you're calling all the time in your debate on legal regulations and telling us what you're responsible for, what you're not and how it's regulated by law. And now I'm going to ask you one other thing, let's play sports television and its 80 million kuna losses and what it's a failed project and it's clear to everyone except you. Sports television did not pay salaries to its workers in 2014 was 314 days out of 365 days in the blockade. That's what all the laws of this country are about. Sports television doesn't pay compensation to transmitters and connections, it violates laws directly, and I wonder what tax administration didn't launch bankruptcy over sports television over that company? Do you think sports television doesn't have to respect the laws of this country and who's protecting who? So we have companies that are shutting down every day in Croatia, craftsmen who get 10,000 fines for a small or big letter, and you owe millions of kunas and the IRS doesn't react and that's normal for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64129	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Matesha's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64130	As for your first question, Your Honor, yes, and it turned out that we were right. It was this system that you keep defending, that uses institutions to deal with people. That's it, let's call it the right words. I've never done that in my political career, I can have a calm conscience in front of this House. This television that you're so stuck with, so I already have a feeling that this interest is wider than this debate, you can answer the line for sure, it's that I explained to you, that because of certain statements she came into big trouble that year. We've invested a lot to come up with today that we're practically at a level that allows them to normally work. That's 11 people, 11 people doing a 365-day program a year 24 hours a day. I asked you three years ago as a man, when a politician comes to Sports TV, you see live you never wanted to come, and you don't even have the right information. We refinanced it in 40% of the discount last year so it's not even the data you're talking about anymore. I'm calling you back now. Come on, I'll show you everything. That TV had 11 surveillance. If Agrokor had 11 surveillance, it wouldn't have happened to him. 11 surveillances in two years, if that's what someone wanted, someone gives a shit about it being 11 surveillance. There's nothing that's ever happened. There's not one procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64131	Thank you. You've announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure, say what's happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64132	Article 238, Mr. Matesha demeans MPs, specifically me when he said he thought my actions had some broader lobbying interest. Look, there's no mate Matesh. I am no one's exhibit.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64133	Wait a minute, don't be mad, but Matesha's not a representative, it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64134	Mr. Vice President, when you come to someone's house, do you follow the rules of that house that you came to or act as you please? So Mr. Matesha, if he doesn't write in the Rules of Procedure Mr. Matesha, he can say whatever he wants. Well, let's stick to the rules. [[Intruder Doncic: We must stick to the rules.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64135	Please don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64136	Let me say one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64137	Thank you. I'm really saying you can't do business. Don't be angry. You can't do this on Rule 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64138	Go fuck yourself, no, it's wider.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64139	No, not okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64140	Let me just say I'm coming to Sports TV, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64141	Thank you very much. You can talk to Mr. Matesh a little later. This concludes the debate combined on the programme and financial report of the HOO for 2014, 2015 and 2016, we will vote when the conditions are met. At the same time, we continue to work tomorrow at 9.30. is the first draft law amending the Minimum Payment Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 246. Thank you very much and goodbye. Session interrupted at 18.07 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-12-0.u64142	Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2014. The applicant is the Croatian Olympic Committee. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "It takes note of the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2014". Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 77 for, 16 abstentions and 30 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, distinguished parliamentary deputies and respected parliamentary representatives. We're going back to work. The first point of today is the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on Minimum Payment, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 246, but before that I see two hands in the air, three. He's a colleague of the Bulls first.
