ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38775	Good morning and thank you, President-in-Office. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, he would talk about the situation of Slavonian counties, based on data issued by the HGK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38776	Please. My colleague Hrg, and my colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38777	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a 10-minute break to point out the problem of traffic collapse on the Goric-Zagreb road.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38778	You got it, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38779	Dear Mr. President on behalf of the Club Change Croatia, I demand a break, I would like to warn of problems in the functioning of the parliamentary committees The board. [[Intruder: Assembly Committees.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38780	You got it, buddy Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38781	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club to warn of the increasingly difficult and difficult situation in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38782	Okay, well, if there's no more requests for a break, we'll be back to work in 9.43 minutes. Thank you. It's 9:00.33. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:43 AM]] He is the first speaker on behalf of the Independent Lists' Club, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38784	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer on behalf of the representatives of the Club Mosta to the information presented by HGK, on the development of Croatian counties. Primarily about the start of the list, which includes 4 Slavonian counties, Vukovar-Srijemska, Požeško-Slavonska, Brod-Posaviska, Virovitica-Podravska and not far from Osijek. Not only that data, but also data, where these regions, type NUC 3, are among the worst-ranked regions in Europe. We can talk about some indicators of success in the progress of the Republic of Croatia, which are small, but perhaps show one trend after all, we recover, but when we narrow that data down, just to the level of Slavonian County, then surely that no longer stands that finding, there is a setback. Whoever came, was, little saw one broader context of any Slavonian region, not just cities, biggest cities, county, it certainly noticed numerous, abandoned buildings, houses, unpopularized settlements, which every day more and more tons. In a purely economic sense, it would be right to ask, if such a society that has been devastated can create a new added value, whether it can compensate for the development that would be needed to at least get close to an average of the Republic of Croatia, or to make progress so that we can be among the better regions of the EU. Now in this summer time, the problem is even bigger. Especially the problem, when I hear statements from some colleagues who are from areas that are by the sea, who say they would pass on to us in Slavonia, the knowledge of the development of tourism, so that we would be successful. I don't know if anyone really thinks that something that used to be the Pannonian Sea can become a hit tourist destination today. I think Slavojnia has its second basis and can also be a success, which is a agricultural production that needs to be upgraded to supply these agricultural products, as well as processing these agricultural products. Also, these colleagues realize that these agricultural products should be on the menu of their tourist destinations, on the menu of tourist hotel chains, agricultural, certain markets, and not only of principle, some blue green link. Believe me, I've been listening to this, and we haven't had a chance to benefit from it once. We've had changes in the tax system, I still haven't felt them with me, that they're bringing something, but definitely that didn't work in our area, maybe at Croatia level, will show the data but definitely not with us. We have a project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, which we all expect to bring well-being, but what has been said so far, is actually based on something that already exists, on EU funds, which have already been allocated. And when someone says, you'll get, here's a statement from the assistant regional development minister, projects from Slavonia, they'll get the maximum number of points, they'll get points that can give them the advantage. Then we have a statement, practically at the same time, Minister Tolusic who says we will give a lot more points, everyone who is undeveloped and that will be good for Slavonia, and then I say what will be good, it is good for Lika and Banovina and all other undeveloped areas, but it is not the Slavonia Project, let's expand it and it is a good initiative when I hear that it will be the project of North Croatia, which everyone can have in this way. But when I look at just the projects that need to be developmental bearers, honestly, I'm disappointed, we're living in the past again, not one of our politicians has yet brought a real vision of how Slavonia will progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38785	Thank you. Second debate, esteemed colleague Branko Hrg, on behalf of the HDS Representatives Club, HSLS, HDSSB, 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38786	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, I would like to express one dissatisfaction and concern with the problems that occur all the time on the Goric-Zagreb road. We know that Croatia is extremely well developed by highways, that we are always proud to look at it, although of course we have a lot of problems in paying for all of this, but what is happening on the Goric-Zagreb road, in this part of St Helena and towards Zagreb, it is simply more unsustainable. So, for a couple of months now, there's been work on one piece of that road on the overpass, but it's not just this year, it happens year after year. Every year for a few months, that part of the road works. Works that last indefinitely, works that do not see the end, you can't see when they will end, people stand in columns and on their way out of Zagreb and on their way to Zagreb. Definitely, now that the tourist season has begun, we know that it is a road leading tourists from Hungary towards the Adriatic Sea now these traffic congestion such that it simply doesn't make any sense anymore. And this way I really want to express one big protest of all those drivers that are being led especially now, when the second rail track is reconstructed and the second rail track track is building long Selo-Križevci and even more people are traveling by cars because the train is also disabled by normal traffic, which is normal and office, at this point really people don't know what to do about how to behave in that part. Here from this pay phone from the Croatian Parliament I ask nicely to examine what happens in Croatian highways that manage this part of the road, on this road, why these works on this piece of road always last so long, why these works are not performed at a time when there is no tourist season when there is no such increased traffic and why these works are always performed just as timeless in time. Because simply if some normal developed country went to do such work they would be almost likely for some maybe a month. In Croatia, this part of the road takes several months, probably half a year. I don't even know if it's going to end this year as it's going to last, probably move to the other side of the road afterwards and start digging again, digging and doing something again. So the invitation to the relevant exams, I know that the Public Procurement Act is complicated, that the Public Procurement Act does not always allow the selection of the best contractors, but probably there are some deadlines within which the deal that is agreed must be completed. I don't believe that someone made a contract that the works I don't know about reconstructing some knee band on a overpass in the Sesvets would take five months as long as it is now. Here's a thank you very much, and I hope something will work out that this will finally end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38787	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38788	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs, respected citizens who follow us. I asked for a break to warn you all together about the fact that the parliamentary committees are not filled with scientists and experts. I remind you that on October 14th last year, this 9th assembly of the Parliament was established, so it's been 8.5 months, this Parliament has 28 committees. The fact is that for 24 committees, a single competition was launched asking for about 120 external members, so experts, scientists, people who are competent for certain areas dealing with these parliamentary committees. But, gentlemen, it's been going on for half a year. Here's why I'm asking. Can we work without profession and without science? There it discusses important topics, important laws when there is no science and profession must be influenced, making everything worse. It affects the quality of the law, there are failures, capacity cuts. The current capacity of the board is so let's say insufficient, the discussions are thin or they're gone, simple points pass. I've made sure of that myself, all of it endangers the quality of the work I've already said. I beg you, Mr. President of the Parliament, and also the leadership of the Parliament, don't turn committees into debate clubs just politicians and voting machines that should simply be missed by something to make it easier for a plenary session to do so. I'm asking you a question of who the experts and scientists are bothering, why aren't they on the parliamentary committees? I ask you, after you lead the Parliament, to settle it until summer break because how will you implement the curative reform if scientists and experts disturb you on the parliamentary committees, so let's get out of here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38789	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic. One brief piece of information. I agree with what you have said, we need to fill out the committees and with our external members, if we are going to succeed now until the end of this session or the beginning of the next session, we will see this, but we will certainly see that from the beginning of the next session, the committees will have external members. Here's your colleague, Madyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38790	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. I would like to warn you of the situation in agriculture and the problems of our farmer and peasants who, unfortunately, are on the verge of existence, and we think that we are a little bit of protection and too little solving their problem. Before I say any problems to point out that if Croatia uses its agricultural resources, it could feed about 20 million inhabitants. However, the last 20 years have been continuously reducing the agricultural area so that with 1.69 million acres of oracica is equal to so many pastures and meadows today we are unfortunately working only 800 thousand hectares and using about 500 thousand hectares of pasture and with the existing system and organization, unfortunately, we are forced to become import addicts. In 2014 alone, we imported 43 tons of corn, while we introduced 1630 tons of soybeans, clearly they are not accurate data because it is only soybean grain until we do not have data on soy juice. How much we imported vegetables, fruit, and in yesterday's debate, we heard what we imported into the Republic of Croatia. So I'm asking if we can't produce it in the flat Podravina, Slavonia, in the Cetina region? Of course we can't because there are a number of problems that occur in agriculture, and here some of these are incentives, the price bought for not knowing, it's agricultural land. Here until 30.06. this year, the incentives were paid. Yes, I'm just asking how much incentive is paid, is that unfortunately family farms and they don't know, to know that up to 30 acres paid for about 2200 kuna per hectare, while for farmers who have more than 30 hectares, about 1380 to 1680 kuna per hectare has been paid. Unfortunately, it is regrettable that at a moment of sowing and rape and corn planting, it does not know how much farmers will finally get for their encouragement. Also, the ransom price, here's the harvest of rape, barley, the harvest of wheat, and neither is the ransom price. Clearly, the price will be known at the moment while individual trading lobbys negotiate the price and again to whom? At the expense of a public peasant. Not to mention the price of meat, the price of milk, the fraud contracts with certain combinations that go to the expense of family farms. Here's an example of Agrokor. Who's gonna get hurt? Once again, small family farms will suffer, which will not get paid their claims and for small family farms 50, 100 thousand kuna is a lot and that is practically the failure of small family farms. Agricultural land, it was known that the Law on Agricultural Land, the bill of law, would go in the spring. The spring harvest is over, there will be a summer break, we hope that by autumn it will come into the process of the agricultural land programme that, because this current programme, the Agricultural Land Act, once again pleases large combinations and to the harm of small family farms. We all advocate the development of small family farms, but I'm asking you what we've done for these small family farms. Here are some of the important reasons why our villages fail, which is why young people go out of the belly after bread and Podravina, Slavonia, the Cetinian part stops empty. And what we can tell our peasants, only to keep praying to Mother of God and Lady of Sinai, is that all they have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u38791	Thank you. We're moving on to the agenda now. As I said, point 1 is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 146. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered by the Parliament's dispatch. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received their reports at the session. I would now like to ask the State Secretary at the Justice Department of the Honorable colleague Christian Turkalj to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43228	President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, respected MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. This law therefore addresses the issue of judicial cooperation in criminal matters between EU Member States. This law actually transposes the EU's legal rules into the national legal order. The law was adopted on 9 July 2010 with effect from 1.7.2013. In fact, these laws regulate the forms of judicial cooperation such as the European Arrest Warrant, such as the recognition of the execution of orders for the confiscation of assets, such as the recognition of the execution of decisions on fines, judgments and decisions imposing a sentence of imprisonment or a measure of confiscation of freedom as well as judgments and decisions laying down trial measures and alternative sanctions, and which recognise and enforce a decision on precautionary measures and a European protection order. These are the 4th amendments and additions to the law. The purpose of these amendments is to align ourselves with the newly created acquis in this area and to remove some observed weaknesses resulting from the application itself in practice. It is a matter of harmonisation with two directives, of the Directive on the right to access to a lawyer and of the Directive on the European Criminal Investigation Order. As far as this first directive is concerned, it is therefore the right to access a lawyer in criminal proceedings. They therefore establish minimum standards governing the procedural rights of the defendant in criminal proceedings. What is important is that this directive has also requested amendments and additions to the Law on criminal proceedings currently contained in the second reading, so it is necessary to watch them together. As regards the Directive on the European Research Order, this Directive intends, in fact, in a comprehensive way to regulate the implementation and provision of evidence in all cross-border cases that have been actually arranged in a fragmented way so far. In fact, this directive replaces the early EU rules governing this area. As I said, therefore, with this law, amendments and additions, we have actually tried to implement certain technical coordinations that the judicial authorities have seen through practice as weaknesses for therefore, normal functioning of EU rules. The law is scheduled to enter into force 8 days after its publication in the National Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43229	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? Legislative Committee, Justice Committee. If not, then I am opening the debate and the first to discuss it came from distinguished counterpart Recajmir Varda on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club, the Party of Intergenerational Solidarity, Croatian Reformists and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43230	Respect for Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, any justification when it comes to legal acts on appearance looks dry, especially in the process of applying the EU acquis. However, I would not like to repeat neither the text of the law nor the text of the reasoning, I would like to look back at the clubs only a few points in the European Parliament and Council Directive of 3 April 2014. I think it is important for these few points here from the public speaker of the Croatian Parliament for the sake of the public, for the possible application of the European arrest warrant, to explain a little bit to people. In any case, Directives, one and the other, 2013 and 2014, lay down the minimum right of persons arrested for the purpose of fulfilling the European arrest warrant, and most importantly, the right to an attorney has been introduced. And that's even for a lawyer from the home state who's being issued a European arrest warrant. What I have paid particular attention to, is the point of the 12th Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014, which I have already talked about on several occasions from this booth, which is the assumption of innocence, the presumption of innocence. It is very important, in fact, that in any procedure, criminal or any procedure, or even in traffic, among us humans, in our private lives, we start right from this presummation of innocence. Presumptions of innocence. As long as the competent court doesn't bring a word of law as a final judgment, so long as every person is innocent. Innocent. That, too, should be taken into account in their discussions and in this House. What makes me happy is that, through the proposal of the text of the law, you took special care of it. The second point is point 20. The European arrest warrant should be possible, according to the point: if its recognition or enforcement in the executing State included a violation of immunity or privileges in that country." I went through the text of the bill and I see that both through the text and through those forms, in fact, at the end of the law, you also took care of that part of the directive. Point 27 is interesting to us also because of certain specific cases that we have in this House, and not to mention, we have discussed, that “the European arrest warrant can be issued in order to obtain evidence of the accounts of any nature, persons subject to criminal proceedings from any bank, or non-bank financial institution, that possibility should be understood broadly, so that it includes not only suspects or defendants, but also any other person to whom the competent authorities consider such information necessary in the course of criminal proceedings.” But I'm not working any further, I think it's clear. However, I am going back to point 23 of the 2014 Directive. In the proposal for a law, you said that through chapter 3 an evaluation of the resources necessary for the implementation of the law that no increase in the costs of implementation is expected in relation to the activities so far, and therefore no additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia need to be provided. However, point 23 opens up the possibility that the issue of a European arrest warrant may result in costs that are extremely high, truly, the directive decides that this can be resolved in agreement with the arrest warrant publisher, but as there is also the possibility of such a European arrest warrant, I think we should also take care of possible costs. And in order for the budget to provide for an item, it does not have to be implemented, God gave it not to be executed, but should provide for an item and for such increased costs of the implementation of the European arrest warrant. However, in any case, the Club of the Party of Labour and Solidarity, the Parties of Intergenerational Solidarity, Croatian Reformists and Independents will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43231	Thank you. We don't have a replica, so let's go to another debate, it's a distinguished colleague, Orsat Milenic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43232	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Department of Justice. Introductoryly, I can only say, I will be very brief that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support these legal changes. They are certainly the adaptation of the directive and what needs to be done and this is, in particular, the positive part relating to the rights of the defendant. What's not good is late. Unfortunately, both in this law and in the CAP, which is yet to follow us, we are very late with the implementation of the directive. There's no reason why this wasn't done a year and a half ago, six months ago, but we're here now, let's try to get this thing up to this summer break as soon as possible. I think certain things have been missed that could be corrected, which exist as doubts in court practice. But my God, if the assessment is perfect, then you don't have to touch it in domestic practice, then I can only support it. It goes to those who think so. So here we are, no longer, to support and regret that we are late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43233	I thank you briefly and clearly, so we move on to the next debate of distinguished colleague Maria Jelkovac, a Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43234	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I will discuss briefly in front of the Croatian Democratic Community's proposal for this law. In fact, I agree with everything that my colleagues have said so far. What I would also point out is that it is important that this proposal which is in fact the fourth amendment of the existing law from the moment it was adopted to date is, in fact, the reason why it is in line with the acquis of the EU and with the harmonisation and application of those Directives 2013/48 of 22 October 2013 and Directive 2014/41 of 3 April 2014. What is really important is that the implementation of Directive 2013/48 also required the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, as said by counterpart Orsat, which will also come to us on the benches, and for the reason that the provisions governing the right of suspects and accused persons in the domestic criminal proceedings are in conformity with the procedures under the European arrest warrant. It is also important to note that the amended articles of the laws governing the rights of the requested person are in place in the execution of the European arrest warrant. A new article relating to the rights of the requested persons in relation to which a European arrest warrant has been issued has been introduced. What is also already pointed out and very important is the setting up of the Institute of Defence in the procedures of issuing, executing a European arrest warrant, and therefore in the law and the new article that is prescribed in the case where the person for whom a European arrest warrant has been issued in the Republic of Croatia after the arrest in another Member State wishes to exercise his right to defend himself in the Republic of Croatia. It is further prescribed that if the requested person wishes to exercise the right to defend himself in the issuing State, the State lawyer should inform the competent authority of the issuing State. It is also prescribed to restrict the right of the person sought to defend, i.e. to inform and communicate with third parties in accordance with domestic law if requested by the State of issuing a European arrest warrant. Mandatory defence attorneys have been prescribed at the hearing for the purpose of handing over to the judge of the investigation, which is also important for the protection of the suspect's procedural rights. As regards the implementation of Directive 2014/41, it should be pointed out that a new form of judicial cooperation has been introduced through a European investigation warrant. This order shall be issued by a Member State carrying out criminal or criminal proceedings and, for the purpose of carrying out one or more evidence actions in a country carrying out a European investigation warrant to collect evidence. Therefore, a new Chapter IIa was introduced into the law. which arranges those institutes. In addition, Chapter IV has been deleted for the purpose of implementing those Directives and the provisions of Chapters I and III have been amended. The law. Provisions on the competence of the issuing, receiving and forwarding of certain forms of judicial cooperation and provisions on costs and remedies have also been amended and in order to comply with the latest amendments to the law. The law also sets out a new article that sets out the principle of protection of fundamental rights as one of the fundamental principles of judicial cooperation in EU Member States, and as regards the suspension of the procedure, the situation is regulated when, after the power of a solution approving surrender, it is established that the reasons for refusing to carry out a European investigative order or suspending the procedure for the execution of a European investigative order, since the existing legal gap has created problems so far in practice. A provision that regulates the postponement of surrender and temporary surrender has also been amended, as the provisions so far have not been finalised in respect of the proceedings which also led to unequal case-law. A provision that regulates the situation when an investigative prison is abolished for surrender due to the expiry of the pre-inclusive deadlines for the execution of the surrender has also been amended. So this law sets out in fact minimum standards that strengthen mutual trust and facilitate judicial cooperation based on the principle of mutual recognition which is very positive and leads in fact to greater legal certainty, especially since it is a criminal law area where things are actually very sensitive because there is a restriction on freedom as a fundamental human right. These will therefore support the HDZ Club's proposal. It is also important to point out that for the implementation of this law, it will not be necessary from the current analyses is visible that there will be no need to provide additional funds in the Republic of Croatia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43235	Thank you, colleague Jelkovac. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 146, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law." Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 127 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43238	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the Law on International Private Law. This area is currently governed by the law that the Law on conflicting laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations, which was adopted in 1982 and which was taken over in our legal order. It's been 35 years, there have been significant and numerous changes. The existing legal solutions in the so-called The ZRS, short as we call it, are mostly obsolete and needs to be modernised. The law on international private law, therefore, would regulate three groups of rules. Rules on the determination of the applicable law for private legal relations with international character, rules on jurisdiction of courts and other bodies of the Republic of Croatia, for debate in legal matters subject to private legal relations with international character, and rules for the recognition and declaration of enforcement of foreign court decisions, the subject of which is the subject of private legal relations. By this law, we introduce a certain newspaper and one of the newspapers is the introduction of a link between the usual residence used in European law, but which is not defined, so we define it in law, but only for the purposes of applying this law, in order to facilitate the application of this law in practice. For the purpose of transparency of the relevant regulations of a specific provision of the Law on International Private Law, they refer to relevant EU regulations and international agreements. In this respect, the law follows the approach they adopt in other Member States, in which more recently there has been the adoption of such a modified regulation. So, for example. in Belgium, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Romania. Also, this law sought to avoid dualism, to have a dualist system, or to have a difference in the approach to the application of the regulations of relevant law, the rules of jurisdiction relating to EU Member States and third countries. In this context, we have then used identical links, like those provided for in the regulations of European rights, and then we have extended them to relations with third countries. What is important to note is that this law has a subsidiary application, which means that it applies only after international contracts and only after European rules. So, when those regulations don't regulate anything. As it is a very demanding and complex law, we have foreseen one longer... to prepare the judiciary for the proper application of this law through the necessary training. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43239	Thank you and the Secretary of State. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm having an argument. The first club to come forward is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and distinguished counterpart Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43240	I thank the President of the Parliament. In short, the Most Independent Lists Club will support this Law on International Private Law, will support it for the sake of a good solution to the avoidance of conflicts of jurisdiction and for solutions that have been adequately preserved from Croatian judicial and legislative practices, and we have seen this as an example of the definition and definition of the usual residence, headquarters, but also what this good practice has brought into line with those requirements of our international environment and our international beings which we now belong to, and that is to protect these private relations, as far as possible in order to achieve the idea of justice and to achieve an ideal of efficiency and Croatian justice, and to protect these private relations. We have seen that this proposed solution, which was incorporated into the law in the first reading, that when it comes to personal status, it is much easier and easier to get to the information that was now harder to come by and that the rights relating to personal status are guaranteed by citizenship. We have an example of intellectual property, we are also discussing the problem of parental obligations when the Hague Convention is applied or if it is outside the contractual legal situation, for example in the case of traffic accidents with third-country nationals that the Hague Convention is also applicable, but what is significant to our citizens is the possibility that certain legal situations of private nature can also be resolved in consular representations. In conclusion, the club of the Independent Lists supports this bill in the first reading, supports it because the ideal is to install what is good and keep what is good from our legislative activity and legal practice and to bring it into line with the requirements of the international environment to which we belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43241	Thank you, too. Second debate of the Independent Representatives and HSU Club, distinguished colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. She's gone, so she's losing her right to argue. We move on to the discussion of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's very briefly about this bill. What I would like to point out is now a fundamental source of positive international private law, as said by the State Secretary, who actually took over from the former SFRY in 1991, which was passed in 1982, and I really believe that the adoption of this proposed law is significant and justified. Since the accession of the EU Regulation at EU level, the regulations on international jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in civil, commercial, hereditary matters, maritime relations, etc. have been applied directly to the Republic of Croatia. What I want to say is that it is really important to pass this law because it regulates very important matter and the area of private legal relations with international features, then rules on the jurisdiction of the courts and other bodies of the Republic of Croatia to debate in legal matters whose subject is the subject of private legal relations with international features and rules for the recognition and enforcement of foreign court decisions whose subject is mentioned private legal relations. It is important to point out that the adoption of this law and judges or practitioners will significantly facilitate the handling and resolution of situations with an international character because they will have a new law that will take over all the good case-law that has been put forward for years in solving all these disputes that have had international characteristics, and we will also get a law that meets the needs of modern international legal traffic that will lead to legal certainty and even more uniform jurisprudence. Here is why we welcome the adoption of this law as a club and we believe that it will indeed contribute to our whole legal order to a better and more uniform court practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43243	Thank you. We have a replica of an esteemed colleague, Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43244	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. Oh, here's just one little replica. You mentioned how long we waited for this law, should only highlight the appeal of the academic community and our professor and the Faculty of Law in Zagreb and Split, as well as other universities, their appeal to just pass a new modern law that will address the issue of international private law. I think we'll all agree that the Law on the resolution of the conflict of laws with the regulations of other countries in certain relations is and outdated, long in force with small changes. And I think it's the right time, here's the fourth anniversary of Croatia's entry into the EU, and I think it's a great time to pass this law right now that all the institutes and personal relationships of family, inheritances are regulated by this law, and I think the academic community itself will be looking forward to having a new material to study and prepare our students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43245	Thank you. And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43246	Thanks, buddy. I also agree with you, and I just want to add that the academic community has also participated in the drafting of the bill and this final text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43247	Thank you. The next debate is SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43248	Mr. President of the Parliament. I welcome the secretary of state with my associates. And right away at the beginning I want to say that the SDP club will support this law, is that something that is missing from Croatia 30 or from independence. This law we've been applying is 35 years old, so since '82. In the meantime, many changes have occurred since Croatia's entry into the EU, and thus the obligation to implement directives in this area as well as the overall situation in the way we operate, in the economy, in technologies that we use and which make it possible for more intensive international contacts, and thus also disputes that can arise with an international feature. In this context, it creates one such law that will codify all the rules of international private law, means the applicable right for private disputes, the jurisdiction of courts in this matter and the issues of enforcement and recognition of such judgments is necessary. Although there would be no misunderstanding we have always had regulated this area but it has been scattered into various our laws which are even in reason here numbered, so it's not that we didn't have rules and that we haven't been governed by a legal state that needs to know what, which knows what needs to be applied. But now we have everything in one place and it's very important. Here is especially for those who are experts in this matter, there are also rules for the recognition and enforcement of foreign court rulings. Because we are very often informed by TV screens that our citizens stand up against the implementation of foreign judgments by taking, of course, and solidizing themselves with their fellow citizens. But if we have a legal state, if we have regulations and laws, if we have rules on the recognition of foreign arbitration rulings, then we simply have to insist that the legal order works. Sometimes it's painful, sometimes it's not fair, but it's just like that, and as a state, we've simply chosen to be on the basis of respect for the law and respect for the rights of every situation. What is particularly important to point out is that a link of residence is re-affirmed here as one important link since people living in an area have the largest and closest connection to this area and is particularly important in cases of people without citizenship or when citizenship cannot be established. The State Secretary also mentioned this, and I think it is one important fact that needs to be pointed out, which is the subsidiarity application of the law, so the law applies in all those cases where there are no international agreements either bilateral or multilateral, or when there are no direct EU directives in this area that Croatia must accept in its legal order and directly. In this way, when we codify the rules of international law that are scattered into the mass of our laws, we are actually following a trend also in Europe, so many European countries have set out in this way, such as Belgium, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Romania etc.. Therefore, once again we support this law, we think that it will make a little more order in our legal system and here we wish it a quality application by Croatian courts and of course citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43249	Thank you and colleagues to Klisovic. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law on international private law, first reading, P.Z. No. 141. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. A draft law on international private law is adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 125 votes in favour and 1 abstention, as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43252	The esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs. The draft law on the regulation of the rail market and the protection of passenger rights in rail transport regulates the area of regulation of the rail market and the area of protection of passenger rights in rail transport, the competence and authority of the national regulatory authority and inspection. The existing Law on the regulation of the 2014 rail market needs to be amended in order to further comply with the EU acquis. In particular, regarding the regulations of the 4th railway package relating to the full opening of the market for passenger domestic rail transport services from 1 January 2019 and the tasks and responsibilities of the national regulatory authority. In 2016, the European Commission, as part of the EU pilot, submitted a question to the Republic of Croatia concerning the disagreement of national measures with the 2012 Directive. 34 EU. It is therefore necessary to amend the relevant provisions of the existing law. The proposal for a law lays down that the national regulatory authority is competent to carry out regulatory and other operations in the area of the rail market. Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, HACOM. The draft law relating to the regulatory body contains provisions on the principles of work on the duties of members of the Council, on decision-making of jobs, on decision-making and enforcement of decisions of judicial protection, on means of carrying out tasks and on the submission of a work report. The draft law concerning the regulation of the rail market contains provisions on regulatory principles and objectives of the regulatory body, on the jurisdiction of the regulatory authority, on the procedure under the request, on the collection of data, on the verification of accounting separation, on the determination of the basic purpose of the service of international rail transport of passengers including cabotage applicable only from 1 January 2019 on the determination of the economic balance of the public transport contract, on the issue of prior consent and non-binding opinions and assessments, on the setting of a time limit for access to the service facility, on the monitoring of the compensation for rail services, and on cooperation with national authorities and regulatory bodies of other EU Member States. The proposal for a law lays down that the regulatory authority is also responsible for the protection of the rights of passengers in rail transport, the proposal contains provisions on the jurisdiction of the regulatory authority for the implementation of the Regulation of the European Community No. 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the rights to obligations of passengers in rail transport, on official duty in the protection of passenger rights, on the settlement in the procedure required by passengers in relation to the advertising of the Consumer Advertising Committee on rail transport and on inspection of passenger rights. Proposal for a law relating to the inspection supervision of the regulatory authority of the implementation of the law in question of the Regulation of the European Community No. Regulation (EU) No 1311/2007 and other rules governing the rights of passengers determines the conduct of inspection tasks, the powers of inspectors and the obligations of supervised and other persons participating in inspection surveillance. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43253	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, first of all, a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar, appeared on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43254	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here I will try to explain in a brief discussion perhaps a few things that I think are important to say, and regarding the Croatian railway, everything that we have through history and what we are expected through this law today, the MOST Club will support the adoption of this law for the simple reason why it is in some way our obligation, and the future of the Croatian railways cannot be seen differently but through all these legislations that we have to apply, implemented in our legislative framework, given that we are a member of the EU. We have seen in the media lately, a lot of critical attitudes towards the Croatian railway, primarily that applies, there was an article that says exactly that from Osijek to the Croatian coast, I think it travels 24 hours to Split, so somehow in that direction it could be that statement "The train is always faster," it could read like this, "The train is always faster unless you travel by bicycle." But we do not all need to be surprised at what happened on the Croatian railways, we do not even need to look for the culprits in this or that government, simply for all these past 20 and a few years, it has led to the fact that Croatian railways are in some way quite derelicted, neglected, in part in these discussions we have seen, in previous discussions about this topic where we have been developing the road sector, and therefore I think that regardless of whether we are going to adopt this law, and we need it, this law will not contribute to the improvement of the railways, but will contribute to a comprehensive consensus of all those who can decide that tomorrow on the Croatian railways would be better. In the 1990s, if you remember, there were big struggles with the unions, then the Croatian railway was a big company where people, of course, wanted their rights, and then I think that there was 2013 in 2011, 2012, 2013, now I don't know, I don't remember exactly, there was a separation of companies, so we had passenger transport, freight transport, HZ Cargo, we had trains, and these companies were separated as separate units and, of course, shut down HZ Holding as a roof organisation. This was also the case on the board, we will now have a lot of problems and competitions that will be carried out on Croatian railways related to the modernisation of railways, but what is important for the prominent, regardless of where the condition of the Croatian railways is now, such legislative proposals or legal frameworks must be passed because we are a member of the EU, and the sitting parties have passengers who want to have a fast and secure transport, and from other operators or carriers who want to have access to the route under the same conditions and, of course, HZ infrastructure that must enable it. And it's all not easy to do. I say, whether this legal proposal will help in itself, not, but based on what the secretary of state has explained, it is necessary to adopt this legal framework. And with that, the Most Club will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43255	Thank you. Second debate of the esteemed colleague Alen Prelec, Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43256	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Associates. So here's this proposal for a law on regulation of the rail market and protecting the rights of passengers in rail transport, I would read here's the beginning for which he was being brought. This legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and provides a statement of its compliance with the EU acquis. This is nicely said, however, I would say little first about Croatian railways, such a general situation. And here we are, and colleague Žagar said that we certainly cannot be satisfied with the situation in Croatian railways, in general, but generally speaking here research has made only 12% of all travel in Croatia public transport. What a public transport it is, anyway, unsatisfactory. There was a state of public transport in Croatia not long ago in the Evening List. So I'll just say a few things to get the impression of what the state of public transport is, especially now in the Croatian Railways, in general to figure out how important this topic is and how important these legal proposals are to change it anyway. It's just one little dyspression, it says like this in Osijek, the average age of the tram is 45 years. The average age of the Jadrolinija fleet is 33 years, and in Croatia the next condition is 30 years relating to the Croatian Railways fleet. We're 30 years old on average. The number of passengers driving the railways is 22 million passengers per year. Now, how can we be satisfied, that is, we must be dissatisfied with this situation in the Croatian Railways. We've got out-of-date and unsustainable trains without air conditioning. In that case I can say we have exceptions. Here I am head of the local self-government unit in Brdovac. We have a line Long Village – Savski Marof which I think is one of the most profitable if it is not the most profitable in Croatia in which people from nearby Zagreb communicate daily. I think there were colleagues here in the Parliament who drove daily to the Croatian railways. And on that part, with many passengers, Croatian railways made a very big step. These are some modern trains with air conditioning. In any case, one trip as we may have experienced in the EU. With us, it's a rule that we think of a way to drive only the poor, those who don't have any other mode of transport. I think that needs to be changed. All those outside know that the railroad uses all those who want to get from point A to point B in one quick and safe way. Here in Croatia it is not, unfortunately, except I say such bright examples here are where we have modern trains, trains with air conditioning and where in any case travel is extremely pleasant. I hope that such examples will be all over Croatia, because if we say that people, young people leave Croatia, then it is clear that this communication is also important. It's about communication. We all like to say natal politics should be given to parents for children, school books, and then we don't actually open jobs and we don't allow young people to communicate quickly. I think this should also be part of the Croatian railway policy that we have modern railways, modern fast trains, trains where we can travel pleasantly. I'm just going to say in a few words in general, and then I'm going to make concrete suggestions about this bill. In fact, HZ Infrastructure manages railways in the Republic of Croatia at a length of just over 2600 km. A good ratio of miles of track and the number of inhabitants of the country. In fact, 1556 people per km put the Republic of Croatia in a ranking with developed European countries. So we can say that we have a number, we have a satisfactory track number per mile. However, they are in an extremely bad state. There are 542 stations and stands on the network. 1512 railway and road crossings, 109 tunnels and 548 bridges. Many of these facilities are also protected cultural heritage. When we talk about protected cultural heritage, we can also talk about protected cultural heritage in Zagreb. We have a main station and western station that are probably protected heritage, which are beautiful old station. I'm not saying they need to be, that they need to be torn down, and that they need to be built modern stations. But they're certainly not as adequate as they are, that we don't talk about the Split station that's here, save me, God. HZ Infrastructure is responsible for organising and regulating transport for renovation and maintenance, and for building rail infrastructure that is public good in the general administration. On average, the network runs about 630 passenger trains and 115 freight trains per day. We have some bright examples here. In the Vinkovci line – Osijek was the most important side line in the whole country. She had the most traffic and made a profit. After 16 years, its restoration was completed in 2009 and the railway was built for a maximum speed of 120 km/h and today on that railway that is important for Slavonia communicates, or trains are trafficing 80 km. So now I'd ask the same question why we were doing railroads that allow speed of 120 miles per hour and we're trafficling 80 miles per hour. Here's one drastic example. I mentioned the most profitable as far as I know, and I talked to Croatian railways the most profitable railway in Croatia, it is Savski Marof – Long Village where occasional trains, modern trains really are the year, two, three even traffic at 40 km/h. And now we compare, and we like to compare with Europe where trains travel at 300 km/h we have modern trains here, and communication on these tracks is 40 km/h. It's something we all have to change together. The railway must be a locomotive for Croatia's development, not for the railways to be driven by the poor. I was also talking about 19th-century stations. Yeah, I think they're beautiful stationery, but they need to be arranged, too. The regulation system. Here's an example, and I know about it because I talked to HZs. The system of regulation at the main station, built and released into operation, is now not long, but has not received a useful but temporary solution. So we invest in infrastructure, but here's the thing that shouldn't happen. When we talk about this law, then I will read one, says this in Article 2: "This law in the legal order is made, the European Parliament Directive and the Council of 14 December 2016 on the opening of the market for domestic rail transport services, passengers and rail infrastructure management." The law is passed in order to further comply with the EU acquis, particularly the respected representative of the 4 railway package relating to the full opening of the market for services, the domestic rail transport of passengers. Now, in Art. 4. He says, "In the sense of this law, the term applicant means the international group of railways." Now I have to stop there, when I see a directive, I immediately stop, the EU directive, and then I have a doubt. And the doubt goes in the direction of the next. The fact that we have made a lot of mistakes in the last 20 years of the Croatian state, we have given roads in concessions, some roads, on these roads our people drive with a higher price, highways I speak both Istrian Ipslon and Macelj through Zagorje, a higher price than the price of highways owned by the state. We made a concession law,... right, our citizens, no longer have access at sea for beaches, but must pay for entry into concession law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The entrance. We made the privatisation in Croatian way, and now there is only my doubt, is that we do not make a mistake in steps, that we do not get into a situation where Croatian railways, especially that profitable part of us privatise or in Croatian way, we know how it was, by cousinly bound or sold to foreigners who will bring us a railroad here, perhaps more modern, faster, better, but in any case more expensive. The question is, will our Croatian citizens be able to drive that railroad? Here, these are some of my doubts, and when we talk about doubts, then I can also mention the concession for the airport, and the airport we privatized would say. Well, then the airport doesn't work at night, or the prices of airport services are higher than they were before. Gentlemen, I hope that the Croatian railway will continue to be a railway in which every Croatian citizen will be able to drive at favourable prices and that we do not do anything we will regret today. As we regretted the airport, as we regretted most of the privatisation where foreigners bought us everything that was right, banks, HT, INA, and then we're too late. Croatian railways must be owned by Croatia, they must be accessible to every Croatian citizen and there should be no doubt. I have another example where I recently heard that the Austrians privatized some of the railways in a way that they gave them units of local self-government, county, clearly they have their own way, county, cities and municipalities. And when we talk about passenger transport then we talk about this and here are the tasks of passenger transport, the integration of county, regional centres, and the local environments in the entire Croatian railway area. It is in addition to the Law on Croatian Railways. Mass transport of passengers in suburban and urban areas. Well, here's the thing, and that's one of the suggestions, when we don't know how to run Croatian railways well, when they're non-profitable, when they're not our way, maybe even in that direction, we can think about letting those who might take better care of them. Regional trains, tourist trains, local self-government units, so some counties, cities, municipalities take over some of that transport that will certainly be more adequate and better for every Croatian citizen. I see I'm running out of time. I have one particular grudge regarding this proposal. Here is an article on page 23 on page 17, says: “The regulatory body shall, under its official duty, decide where the operator of the service facility is set a reasonable time limit within which it is required to respond to the railway carrier’s request.” What is the reasonable time limit? 30, 60, 90 days? I think a reasonable deadline is something like that in general. One more thing, and it is very modern, says Article 36: "The fine of between 20 and 200 thousand kunas will be fined for the offence of a legal person." Which one? “As a railway undertaking, it does not allow passengers to put bicycles on a train as necessary with compensation, with the condition that they are easily handled and if that does not adversely affect rail transport services, and if the railway vehicle allows it.” How will the passenger know which bike can be put on the train? So the assessment remains at the will of the rail worker. We have to... folded, folded, okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a railway passenger must know whether to be a railway worker lets a meter and a half bike half a meter of bicycles, or folding, blue or green. I mean these are some concrete things, this really isn't malicious, but well-meaning, I think we have to think about it all. And please be more specific here, lest it be at will or not by the will of a rail worker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43257	Thank you. Four are replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43258	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Your esteemed colleague, Prelec. I answered the line, I just wanted to complete it with one more fact that seems important to me, but before I say it's not entirely so that the HH didn't invest in funds. Significant funds have been invested, however, there is always a problem with the strategy and the way money is invested and what is the priority when we talk about rail transport. Otherwise, we can classify railway lines to those that have international, regional, or local status. I'll mention the Varazdin-Long track within 250km which has a R202 mark in HH. It is one track not electrified, what is the problem in the past has happened that certain connection lines on that stock have been lifted, so on them is traffic has been suspended as the instructions due to the poor condition of the track, this is primarily the railways of Becelic-sirac and Becelic-Banova Jaruga and the shares of Našica towards Pleternica. Now, look, the basic prerequisite for the development of each railway is, in any case, freight transport and the amount of goods transported on that freight course. When we have that form of transport then there is considerable income for the railway to develop. It was a mistake that the railway section had not gained international status but only a regional direction. If we mention that there are Nexa Groups or cements in Nasice, the fertilising plant in Kutina then it happened to be transporting goods, for example, in its own time, it was 800 thousand tons of cement that could be carried by rail, the transport of goods was aimed at road transport, and if it wanted to be transported by railways, then the shares extended by 100 km longer transport and there was no competition there. So what we have to do is first of all set priorities for investment in HH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43259	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43260	Thank you. My colleague, yes, I didn't say that it didn't invest in HH, so here's an example that we have an example that really plans to withdraw significant money from EU funds and that's for every praise. We need to worry not only about the passenger transport we are talking about today but also about freight transport, and that way we will primarily protect the environment. We know how much the big trucks spend, and how much the railroad is environmentally acceptable. Anyway, I think with this debate, we need to talk to people who listen to us here and tell them what needs to be changed. We're here to find some common ways to make HH a better company with all of us together and clearly. But what's most important is what I may not have mentioned, bring people back to ride our trains. There were examples here not long ago where young tourists went from Split to Zagreb, they drove 11, 12 hours, it's something unacceptable. He is driving out to the railway to get to the finish line faster, clearly in another way, and with us it happens that tourists travel to Zagreb for 12 hours, and they could come from Split to Zagreb for as much as five hours by bus. It's something unacceptable, and so here's a thank you for the replica that we must jointly point to problems in HZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43261	Thank you. Second Replicator Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43262	Thank you very much. You told your colleague that the law you found even a grudge in him about a bike and a good will for someone. I guess that's where Sport Billy will find himself who can cut that bike and put it in a bag, but the seriousness of this topic states that the fact as you said not only that grudge, but this law is the expression of the EU directive that we are now discussing here in the Parliament, and it is very difficult to apply in us because we have the railroad in our tracks. You said that the railway should be the main locomotive of the development of the Republic of Croatia, one of the main drivers of fast transport of goods and passengers, but the fact is that we are daily making a number of directives that are in reality difficult to implement solely because of this, and in this case, because of the railway that has really been traced. If we from Osijek need to reach Split for 24 hours, we would literally come on foot before we walk, so you can double-stop for lunch somewhere in the restaurant than you'll get from Osijek to Split by rail, then we're talking about the problem of the system that purposely destroyed our railways is how that colleague Žagar mentioned that there were investments and that in this condition we have railways today. What's the regulatory agency here, what this law wants to achieve if the situation is catastrophic if literally the railroad and we don't have all the other transports are better. So the railroad should either be strategically accepted by all policies regardless of what the political option is or someone will actually come to take it in a concession and use our good ones, which will invest, but not in the interest of Croatia but in the interest of their own. This is a serious topic, and that's why we really need to approach...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43263	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43264	My colleague Bulj, yes, Croatia must worry about HH being a development locomotive that you mentioned. But there are serious doubts that HZ is trying to destroy itself, there are a lot of examples where unrecorded locomotives have been signed off for a write-off, so they've gone to the old iron, there's a lot of doubts. And we can say I can ask how many of these locomotives have been written off lately, turned maybe into old iron, and shouldn't. What we say about crime in all areas of the Croatian state should be examined. But another question, how many of these locomotives are now on the list for old iron? I have some information that clearly doesn't cheer me up but I'm worried about them and there are concrete things and concrete questions. And we're here to discuss it and to say what we know in this place and to know and to make things impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43265	The third replica is the esteemed colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43266	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Prelec, you offered me a line on that last part of yours when you were talking about Franjo Tudjman Airport, not the airport. Therefore, agencies are set up as some independent regulatory bodies which should be careful whether the Law on the Regulation is implemented, etc., irrespective of the pressure of the policy. And very interestingly, the Civil Traffic Agency didn't know at all whether Franjo Tudjman Airport was carrying out a concessionary provision to work 24 hours. The second thing that happened with the plane that the plane had to fly to Rome they had to be at the airport the same morning, in Croatia Airlines to collect all the data. Then we could say that this agency works according to the principles that led this House to decide that it should be established. However, I want to say something else here when we talk about Franjo Tudjman Airport, there's a settlement there, Dance, that's what used to be called that airport, where people invested money in apartments, in rooms and where passengers who don't have a connection are sleeping. However, at the time of the opening of the new airport on the mountain roads, tables have taken place, new traffic regulation since then and then. And there's a fence there that shares that neighborhood or city district, whatever you want from a former airport space nobody's gonna take away. And with all the good will of Minister Butkovic, someone who needs to change it, remove that fence, allow these people to do business, make a fool of themselves. Rent-a-car companies around Gorica park their cars there, three parking lots stand empty, old parking lots along the old airport, an old airport building and it simply shows something else. And that can be mirrored on both the railways and the roads. If we have made one very important infrastructure project for economic development and tourism development, then we must not destroy those who have invested money to deal with certain matters. So that airport must again have a direct connection with the town of Velika Gorica rather than be separated entirely from the city of Velika Gorica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43267	Thank you. Answer, imported colleague Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43268	Mr. Shuker, you've connected it a little differently, but okay, everything's fine. I spoke clearly of the airport as one time, I would say in this case a bad example of privatisation or giving in concessions that it does not happen to us with Croatian railways. We Croatian railways are clearly not adequate, are not as we would like all together but I was talking about this, here in these directives it is said that the Croatian market should be opened with, as far as rail transport is concerned, that privatisation does not occur in a way, in a Croatian way. That's what I've been talking about, and here's my, here's my doubt and the idea that what's profitable in Croatia is that some foreign companies will get it and what's not profitable, passenger transport, part of the passenger transport clearly in parts of Croatia that don't have a large frequency that will remain owned and managed by non-profit Croatian railways. Here's the part I was talking about. But with what you said about Pleso Airport, the old part of the parking lot, I couldn't agree more, and that's where you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43269	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed fellow Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43270	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Prelec, I've listened very carefully to you in your presentation, but I always have to look back as a businessman to all parties and also to yours, this seems like a subsequent mind, so let's go criticizing something that we didn't do so they didn't do but we're all guilty. I simply cannot believe, as a man, that after 25 years, I travel from Vinkovec to Zagreb and often by train, that in 25 years we couldn't lift the track speed by 20, 30km. Before the war came in 2.5 hours in Zagreb, now 3.5 hours, 4. It is a shame, it is a great shame when we watch the Croatian people from the east arrive in Zagreb. And if we don't talk about that shame, and I don't know those people who've run everything so far, we all know that from the east, the most goods come to the west. Once before the war, 300 trains passed in a day, 300 trains, perhaps 80 or less passed today. And at a much smaller rate. We know that we've invested a lot of money in buildings, in Vinkovci, in Brod and all these smaller stations. It's like building a highway so let Fića drive or trabante the former and we now have a train leading to Zagreb. I can't believe we didn't have a priority in the east on all railroads, but we had local priorities and all our priorities, but we didn't have what mattered most. Is that where the truck traffic that we see on the highways was affected, taking part of the railways? Is that some kind of lobby that didn't actually want us to destroy it so we could take it to the trucks? Well, we all know that. We all know what kind of railroad that kind of state is. Let's try to leave, I took the train to Frankfurt, so I took Austrian, Slovenian and even Croatian. And you only mentioned this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43271	Thank you, fellow Misic It's a lot, it's been a long time, I let it go, but here it is. [[It's expired, I apologize. Thank you.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43272	A colleague, yes, an ex-wise mind. I'll always criticize what's wrong. It doesn't matter how long my party has run this country and the ministry, whether it has done enough or not as far as the Croatian Railways are concerned, certainly not enough because we know what they are in the situation and I will always say what is wrong. I couldn't agree more with you when you say the East did a little bit about rail traffic. Here I know concrete things other than these bright examples that I have cited, an example of Osijek-Vinkovci, there is a really satisfying situation, but I say about this subsequent mindset we can talk about, I agree that we should criticise all those who have worked so far, who have not done enough for Croatian railways to be tailored to travellers, to the extent of an average Croat who rides on the Croatian railway, but not only towards Vinkovci, but according to Rijeka, we have very many areas of Croatia that have almost no traffic of passenger trains. And when we talk about the politics of people not to emigrate to us, when we talk about decentralisation of Croatia, then we must also think about Croatian railways. It will also allow every Croatian citizen to reach the metropolis in some hours that are satisfactory, not to take us from Split to Zagreb for 12 hours. Here, that's what I'm talking about, and I agree with you, here's an ex-post mind, but it's better ever than never.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43273	Okay. We now move on to the discussion of the HDZ Club of Representatives, distinguished colleague Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43274	... President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished representatives of the motions from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] As the Proposer has already said, this proposal lays down the area of regulation of the rail market, the area of protection of passenger rights in rail transport, and the jurisdiction and authority of the national regulatory authority, including the tasks of inspection supervision of the implementation of this law. We know that these issues have already been identified by the existing law of 2014 but with a view to further harmonising with the EU acquis, it needs to be replaced. As part of the fourth railway package for the opening of the market for passenger domestic rail transport and rail infrastructure management services, EU Directive 2016/2370 of the European Parliament entered into force at the end of December 2016, and this Directive substantially amended the provisions of Directive 2012/34 of the EU, in relation to the business and competence of the national regulatory authority. This draft law provides that the national regulatory authority is competent to carry out regulatory and other operations in the field of rail services markets, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, HACOM. The proposal for a law lays down that the regulatory authority is also responsible for the protection of passenger rights in rail transport as well as for inspection tasks over the implementation of this law and Regulation No 1371/2007, and other rules laying down the rights of passengers. We also know that so far in the Republic of Croatia is fully liberalised rail freight transport, while passenger transport is liberalised only in the segment of international transport and we hope that the adoption of this law will result in new measures that will bring citizens back to trains, as it will provide them with a better quality of service and a cheaper, faster and safer journey. The liberalisation of rail passenger transport is very important, and unfortunately it is inevitable, so we need to train and increase the competitiveness of Croatian railways as soon as possible. It would point out that domestic passenger transport liberalisation is taking place in two levels, the first is to allow free access to all EU operators to perform this service and this service has been performed since 01 January 2019, and the second level of liberalisation is related to the publication of competitions for the award of public service contracts, which already exists since 24 December 2017, however, there are different exceptions such as these. contracts concluded directly, without invitation to tender, may continue until the end of the period on which they have been concluded, or for a maximum period of 10 years. In the Republic of Croatia, contracts are also concluded directly, but it is a one-year term, and I believe that we will also use this right to directly conclude a contract for a maximum of 10 years and thus enable our HZ passenger transport operator to prepare for the upcoming competition, i.e. to invest significant funds in a driving couple, thereby increasing the quality of its services. The proposed law also covers the area of protection of passenger rights in rail transport, which is a legally separated area from the rail market, but is functionally and operationally linked to the same. Strengthening the rights of passengers in rail transport is based on an existing system of international law which determines that consumer protection requirements are taken into account when determining and implementing other EU policies and activities. This proposal lays down a legal framework for the implementation of that Regulation with a particular emphasis on the determination of infringements. The regulation itself says "Because the passenger is a weaker party to the Transport Treaty, it should protect his rights in this respect." And it is precisely this bill that harmonizes passengers' rights with European standards. General rail passenger services should be of benefit to all citizens, so railway companies and station managers must ensure that stations, platformes, vehicles and other devices are accessible to persons with disabilities, and to other persons with limited mobility. And the EU's goal is to achieve a single European railway area and thus to ensure the competitiveness and sustainability of rail transport in the long term, and therefore to simplify the procedure for providing rail transport services, to raise the quality of rail transport services, and to move away from the unsustainable market business in this sector, which can be devastating, inefficient availability and public spending. In the coming period, the political and economic challenge is to dramatically increase the use of rail transport both passenger and freight, and given the EU White Paper that defines the EU transport development strategy, it is necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% in the period from 2021 to 2030, and to reduce the use of rail transport, the emissions of these greenhouse gases will be reduced. The current situation points to the need for better system management but the necessity of modernising railways, first of all, to rebuild and modernise railway infrastructure facilities. Insufficient investment in rail infrastructure and rail mobile capacity, means locomotives, compositions, wagons, back over the last twenty and more years has led to a major reduction in activity, the attractiveness of this type of transport. Here are my colleagues before me saying that these days, train and other transport transports are compared to these on TV, that they travel 24 hours to the sea from Osijek, that the passengers will board in the evening and arrive in Zagreb only in the morning. In order to change this, exits to modernising rail infrastructure and raising transport speeds. Very fast passenger trains become an increasingly attractive means of transport compared to European intercity air traffic. Europe has brought back 15 years of frameworks that strengthen the role of regulators and ensure the same legal position of transport operators on the market, in particular through the independence of the allocation of transport capacities and the fixing of fees for their use, and the EU also offers models of co-financing for the construction of new and improved existing rail infrastructures through EU funds, all due to the rise in interoperability and security at EU level. The new EU's fourth framework in preparation should increase the interest of rail transport users and make this transport branch more competitive compared to road and air traffic, a greater number of competitions should boost productivity, specialisation and innovative business models with greater use of information technologies. This should help increase passengers and burdens, as well as new rail employment and related industry, and we should prepare ourselves for this because we seem to be very late by now. Finally, it should be said that the proposed law already brings important improvements in the first reading and that the HDZ club will support it. I must also point out once again that railways as the oldest European transport system are passengers and goods, but unfortunately for several decades they have been neglected both in Croatia and the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43275	Thank you very much. There are several replicas at the presentation of MP Cosic. The first replica is Mr. Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43276	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Ćosic has expressed the position of the club which I, of course, support and emphasized the particular importance of the competitiveness of our railways. In this respect, I would like to make a more precise point, which is the issue of the reconstruction of the railways Zagreb – Samobor, which is extremely important for the Samobor, the world's end and which is extremely profitable, i.e. these 14 km railways would be really profitable for Croatian railways. That project took place a long time ago. In the 7th session of the 2013 Assembly, we even entered an item, a special item in the state budget for co-financing of the project, which would then be financed from the EU funds. However, it is later that if I am not mistaken in the 2015 budget, it is abolished. And I think that the government should return this to priorities for the development of Croatian railways, of course with the support of the HDZ club but I believe other political forces as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43277	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43278	My colleague Stier, well, I certainly said in my speech that I should step away from saying the inability of our railways' market business. However, here are the reforms that were passed five years ago that did not contribute. In fact, certain railways and lines were lifted and subsidies increased. And unfortunately, our businesses continue to do business with their loss. The transport of passengers, for example statistics, says 2017/2011. It was about 66,000, but now it's down to 20,000. And I certainly think that I should think again about saying some kind of association either in HZ or in HZ group or holding those companies in order to have one thing to say to a joint administration that would coordinate. Because passenger transport has one priority, the infrastructure of the other, HZ Cargo I do not know has its own interests Rijeka – Zagreb. And if it's just bits of railroad that we're still doing today, there's no integrity and it doesn't have the right efficiency and let me say one market business that we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43279	The next replica is representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43280	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations on your election as vice president, and I want a successful lead. Here's the first time you've been in a new position, so here's the deal. A colleague of Ćosic, you said of course and the HSS supports the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European directives and the resolution of rail transport, especially passenger transport. You said this law would allow passengers to be returned to the railways. Unfortunately, this law will not help the return of passengers to the railways, because the situation is such that we are in a worse position than 20 years ago when I was a student and traveled from Nova Gradiška in an hour, hour and 20 minutes to Zagreb. Today, 2, 2 and a half hours are traveling and passengers are fleeing from the railway to the bus and other alternative transports because they are systematically neglecting investment in railways on the move from Dugi Sel towards Vinkovci and Vukovar. Only one part was restored between Novska and Okucan. What about the reconstruction of the railway from Dugi Sela to Novska, i.e. from Okucan to Vinkovac and Vukovar. As a result, fewer passengers fell first, so the number of cars decreased, and some lines were cut off. Finally, it was also required to remove the railway line towards Pozega and to remove some other railways. I don't think we should cut the tracks but create conditions that passengers have quality conditions for transport and that we have a chance to bring from point A to point B at the same time as some other transports at competitive prices. It is unfortunate that we have also closed some productions that are a chance for Slavonia, and above all why the production of locomotives in Đura Đakovic and passenger cars has been closed. And also for freight wagons where we have knowledge and skills and technology we fight for the Croatian government to drop jobs. Also the train station in Slavonski Brod which was a hub has been abandoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43281	Reply to the replica, MP Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43282	Thank you very much. Col. Vlaović, of course the law itself will not bring passengers on trains, but these provisions on the functionality of railway services, rail transport and passenger rights and this fourth directive lead to the liberalisation of this market. And we will have market liberalisation in two years from now, so that we can protect further our HZ passenger transport by means of a contract that is subsidized and state, and I think it's good, but it can't take long, it just has to liberalize that market, other operators have to enter the gym and, therefore, I'm going to say return passengers to those trains because these moving, I say wagons and lines will be better, because the passenger will be protected, so he'll have the right to demand and compensation for delays, for non-information that he doesn't get in transport. So I think that these provisions simply have to contribute to the return of passengers to trains, because there will be liberalisation and I think that liberalisation must also lead to modernisation, and certainly what I said earlier, so that plans and operations, the whole of our state-run railway sector, will have to be coordinated so that they work in a coordinated manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43283	The next replica of Mrs. Ljubice Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43284	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Ćosic, here you can agree with your debate, almost entirely, but we all enjoyed driving Croatian railways once, but sometimes small cosmetic procedures are enough to improve this passenger transport. Here, personally, while I was working in the management department, in our county, we wrote every year on the alignment of the schedules of HZ and passenger transport, but they have not yet listened to us, so I sincerely hope that they would have some justified introduction and better connection, for example, the cities of Nova Gradiška and the town of Slavonski Brod. Then, Brod-Posavina and Osijek County. We also sent letters related to departures and arrivals, legitimate departures and arrivals of passengers, so we have, students from Novska come to Slavonski Brod at 6:15 p.m., teaching in our high schools starts at 7.00 p.m., or some at 7.30 p.m. So here are some justified perhaps cosmetic procedures to help bring passengers back to the railways. We equally prayed for reinforcements of passenger furniture, in those times when our transport was increased. So in the mornings when workers and students come to work and in the afternoons, when they come back. So here are some little cosmetic procedures, but they would probably help bring back those passengers who like to ride the train, or our Croatian railway.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43285	Reply to the replica, MP Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43286	Thank you. Oh, here, I think this one, that I've talked a lot about saying about cutting lines and stripes. The timetable is made every year, and means, normally, that HZ passenger transport should make timetables where there is, to say market interest and, of course, those railways that the state subsidizes through this public service contract, so I don't think that should be a problem. Simply, the agenda is done every year. The requirement of passenger transport to HZ infrastructure would be such as to provide him with tickets and timetables. However, the support is probably missing, the state, of course they also have county support that can be given to the county, but we know what the counties of Slavonian, our Brod-Posavina is the last according to all indicators, 3 times smaller index of development than Zagreb, I don't know Istria and other counties. So it's a simple way to write and tell both the county and everyone else that I can say can contribute to bringing this timetable in line with the needs of both students and students and workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43287	Thank you. Next replica representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43288	Here's my colleague, Cosic, I must admit that after having led this country since 91' HDZ for almost 20 years, it's really interesting to hear the word when you say, on behalf of the club, to train and increase the competitiveness of HZ. What did you do those 20 years, when HHs failed? Definitely failed, the state of infrastructure is such that believe me, many of those who drive, walk along the track, and I don't know if you've ever walked along the track, and have you seen that there are screws that hold the tracks on the thresholds, which you can pull out by hand, the thresholds are rotten. It's the state of our infrastructure, here's Long Village, Kutina, Novska. We missed through those years to rebuild the railroad. And so we lost the ports, and the port transport was due to the poor infrastructure and the poor state of railways and mass affairs that we had in HZ, so that I wouldn't tell those people who died there, unfortunately, nothing in our railroads has changed. In fact, I think, as the movies are made in Dubrovnik, we're going to be a very interesting destination for Western shooting, because we're the only ones that have such bad and nosy stripes where it can be depicted that it used to be a locomotive moving in the wild west of America. As far as the bikes are concerned, here's the lady who said, uh, folding bikes, so I think HH needs to adapt to the trend. We are developing cycling routes in tourism, we are dealing with cycling, more and more cyclists, I think HZ must adapt their cars, bicycles to stop all those bikes that people want to take, I know, from Brod to Zagreb, or from Osijek to Zagreb or from some other destination, and not that they have to have some special bike that nobody has. I think you must continue to work on this mandate, to improve these railways, not to make them better and to have all these huge affairs happening in HH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43289	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43290	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, I would not have amnested any government of responsibility for the state of the railways, but we must remember those 90's in which we, to say the occasions were, on war occasions where all the corridors of the international corridors on the railways were interrupted, where passenger transport and, in particular, freighter who had left Croatia, went up north towards Hungary and through Hungary and through Hungary, and I simply think today we have to fight to bring these burdens and passengers back here to our corridors, but what to say, here back four years we in the EU have had the opportunity to withdraw significant funds but here we have done nothing. Only one major railway modernisation project has been agreed for those of Mr. Oreshkovic's past governments launched, made. So I said we're seriously late for that, it's running out in time. We have a negotiated railway envelope in large amounts, and I'm afraid that we won't spend that money, that's my objective thinking, and if we don't seal it, if we don't give priority to rail transport, and we simply have to give it away, is it the EU's intensity to get this amount of transport off the road because of air pollution and everything else, and that's one intensity, and I believe that this government will make an effort and that we will withdraw the maximum funds from the EU to improve the situation on these railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43291	Thank you. Next replica, Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43292	Thank you very much. A colleague like you said, this is a law that regulates certain security measures, the protection of passengers of everything that is in place, and of course we need to discuss here an important topic on how rail traffic is regulated. The fact that today this regulator is the Croatian Agency for Network Activities and Railway Traffic and here we are talking about responsibility. And if we're talking about responsibility, we're not asking it to be like in Japan that the man responsible was what was late for the railroad one minute made a man harakiri. But the fact is that in us HACOM is led by a person who spends money on lawyers to calculate themselves with their union officials, who travels to world destinations to see little plants grow. So we have to have responsible people at the head of the system, these laws don't serve us anything if we bring it to the regulator to regulate rail traffic. And we're not going to talk about the state of rail traffic, it would be better to return the sonic rera, which would at least be a tourist attraction. And what our colleague said our railroad could be used to make Western movies. You put irresponsible people in charge, and I told that man in the face of what I'm saying is that millions are being spent. So I'll also tell you that the most expensive areas of HACOM pays in Croatia 24 euros per square metre while our railways are in the state they are in. A thousand squares, you know how much money he spends for those people who are responsible. But what's keeping them for? I'm not saying that there are no professional and high-quality people, this is what I was talking about before I was in power for Mr. Lucic to know who it was. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43293	Thank you, Mr. Bull, for your time. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43294	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, here I said in my presentation and pointed out what you said now that the regulatory body in the area of the railway services market and protection of passengers' rights is HACOM. I would now not be going into the business of HACOM and the first man and I have read and I have read that there have been a lot of newspaper objections and they have come to the board of these remarks, but here I think that this regulatory body has one council to decide on and I think it will fulfill these tasks entrusted to him by the Croatian State or finally, and this Assembly when this law is passed in the second reading. But I think it's simply that the regulatory body isn't just that that leads to the situation on the railroads, it's just controlling those regulatory laws that need to be implemented. So until the legalisation of the passenger transport market, it's the laws that carry out that liberalisation, and they're just following the way that they respect all these regulations equally for all the operators on that railroad. I believe they'll do it well, and here's the problem with HACOM is definitely for another debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43295	Thank you. Next replica representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43296	Thank you very much, Vice President. So in the clarity and conciseness of your report, respected colleague Cosic, in one part you told and spoke about improving rail traffic in the Republic of Croatia, and you heard today during this debate about the sensitivity of our representatives, whether your colleagues from Slavonia or northwestern Croatia for their specific railways or railways in Samobor. I am also tied to the railway from Zagreb to Split, and as far as I know, it meets the terms and conditions of passenger transport, as well as transport. I am sure that by increasing the traffic in the ports, especially in Split and Sibenik, there will be much more to think about this railway. Of course, it would be good and you also mentioned this in your report that certain attractions and advantages that can happen today in the Republic of Croatia regarding rail and passenger transport are used in particular in our country which is a tourist country and through rail and passenger transport and that each of these lines can be attractive. With that in mind, I'd like to remind you that the Germans are doing it, let's say the French are working towards... in Elsas, that the Swiss do so in the Canton of Graubünden where they favor and promote travel transport as an attractive transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe deeply since you are the chairman of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee that you will also act as president on executive authority, as well as on all those who can improve and think in this direction about this and this kind of rail transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43297	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43298	Thank you very much. I hope that we will succeed in this after the implementation of this law and after the liberalisation of this market, that we will say so and withdraw a good part of the funds for modernising our railways, as well as Split-Zagreb. But here I think that... ports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we simply need to determine in that strategy what ports they are and what they will transport. Whether the port of Rijeka will be a burden for the container, whether the plates will be scattered, whether Split will be a passenger and I do not know, Sibenik. So the railroads simply adapt to that burden, not that every port is in charge of, or wants to have all the burdens and simply be competitive with themselves. It is one strategy, meaning to connect the ports from the sea, river, Ploče, Split, Sibenik. And so, for example, Split, Sibenik prefers me more, but it is my opinion on one passenger, on a fast transport while these other railway lines should be exclusively, i.e. prefer that freight corridor of Rijeka-Budapest. But here I am saying everything, every investment in the railway is good because we need to get close to simply making this train transport so fast, that it's cost-effective and competitive because every railway we come to the city center, say, from Slavonski Brod in two hours as our colleague Misic said we were coming to Zagreb, now it takes 3.5 hours, and everyone from Slavonski Brod would travel to me if it were true, in time, you come, you do your job, you go home. I hope that's what we can do. We have a chance!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43299	Thank you. And the last replica of MP Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43300	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Ćosic did not answer this replica so much that I would oppose your exposure that was correct and there is really nothing to add. But I wanted to warn you about one thing that matters, and here are the representatives of the ministry. In fact, I agree with you that the implementation of this EU legislation is, this law that we are adopting today and through the 4th railway package will certainly contribute to the way you have said business equality to all participants in the rail market but also to the protection of passenger rights. Throughout history, however, this practice has emerged while we still had the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. She was in 2014 while she was and the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament was Minister, Mr Hajdas-Doncic, then she was attached to actually the Agency for the Regulation of Network Activities or HACOM. It was in the reports of the agency that we saw before, for example, that up to 10 applications 8 were not in their jurisdiction or some legal procedures were not respected. Now with the HACOM report that suggests the Croatian Parliament, it is a little harder for us to read what is happening. Why am I saying that? It is important that the ministry also make efforts and press the agency and since you are the president of the Assembly Committee on Transport to educate people to actually see what their rights are. We're talking about passenger rights, and people probably often don't know what their right is, so if they send an agency even a request for protection, they can call it in our jurisdiction. More attention should also be paid to education and to the more transparent reporting of the Agency on the public and interested who are their rights in order to protect them. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43301	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43302	Thank you very much, so we should definitely get those rules done. But I think that this law also says that now there will be simplification, so when a passenger submits a complaint, whether it's a simplification, it's not because it has three degrees. So first, he submits to the operator, the carrier, and second, consumer protection complains and third, to HACOM. And it used to be if he didn't complain to HACOM right away that he was falling for that appeal, so now he's got those three degrees. And if he doesn't come, if he doesn't solve his problem earlier, then he's the Hacom who has to make that decision. Here I hope it works. But, of course, if some implementing acts are to be completed, then it certainly needs to be completed. But when people get on trains, when people have information there and about the train, if the train is late, not late, when you can simply get that information on the station and inside the train you can't get any information today, there are some slightly more modern trains where you can get that information electronically. When it systematically connects I think everyone will then know their rights because they'll be driving by train, they'll be late for the one who's moving on time, and he'll be looking for his protection because he paid for the trip, I don't know all of Europe, and he'll be looking for his rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43303	Thank you. That's where we closed the club debate. We have three applications for an individual hearing. The first is MP Miro Bulj's application. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43304	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, with your assistant. It is good that this debate is open on the railway although this is just a directive that we are harmonising our regulations with the EU where we are essentially saying that rail transport is essentially regulated by the market, that the rights of passengers and other rights used, security and protection of all these rights are regulated. However, it is good to open this debate because essentially this law as a directive, nothing, so in practice it will not mean if we, our railways are not mostly what it should be and that is the main engine of development in the Republic of Croatia because simply this transport is much cheaper, much faster than unfortunately in Croatia is a fact. Speaking of which, I've mentioned how much responsibility I should be, first of all, I'm going to talk about responsibility, meaning regulatory agencies that are responsible for network activities, rail traffic already when it's in charge of this law to take care of this law, to implement this law. Simply, I said in Japan for a few seconds the responsible person makes harakiri, it should not be done in Croatia but it is normal for us to be late for a few hours. And, of course, she lost passengers, she lost her profits, and she just collapsed that system, and we're in a position to have rail traffic today as well as what was once in the tracks. It is mentioned that there were investments only these investments are not visible. And the fact is that there is a danger and we should publicly say that we are coming at a moment when it happened with the telecommunications case that it simply privatized what was worth, in this case of liberalisation, we have the possibility that on the side of the company they will take what was most valuable and that they will have the profit in fact what happened and on the maritime good, what happened with the Law on concessions, the sources and everything that followed. I would once again call here on the seriousness of the Minister of Transport, and you secretaries that the regulatory agency is doing its job, not to spend money on 1000 squares, the most expensive in the city of Zagreb, 24 euros each, and when we see what kind of railroad it is, to travel in the most elite classes of aircraft to foreign destinations, to see how there at the seminars of spiritual renewal, let the headman freely... in Croatia, in our railway, on our train, so let him see what is the state of what he should regulate, which should have been applied to this regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that I've talked about it many times already, that the regulatory agency is the body that should be the most responsible for everything that's going on on our market, with that as their legal foothold. In both network activities and railways, however, it's a little funny, but the fact is that we sold our telecommunications to foreigners that it started, unimportant, we shouldn't look for anything, accuse that telecommunications started the HDZ government in the 1990s and ended the SDPs. We also need to talk about INI and it was the other way around. Here we need to talk about the strategic national interest, which is the Croatian railways which are literally now a clue and can only be as mentioned by my colleague Babic, and before me, a colleague from HSS, must be a tourist attraction. It may be a tourist attraction, and we need to safeguard that potential, because simply the trains in which the locomotives are located are easy, we need to talk to Europeans when they come here and our tourists, as they used to look like railroads. Now in the world they go 300 kilometers of railways per hour, and with us from Split to Osijek 24 hours literally, you can ride the bike sooner than the railroad. Therefore, all the laws that we adopt as a directive of the EU are always a question of whether they can be applied in our system, because we are late in fact not with this law, but as long as we have brought the Croatian railways. They are now in the tracks at this moment, it is visible at all levels and on infrastructure and on the meaning of this staff, i.e., responsible agencies that do not do their job, except that they are their own purpose and have lists that should be employed, arrested and that is their only interest, and of course I will talk about it when Mr Lucic's report comes in which way an agency which should be engaged in this regulation, and which is why we bring simply what she is dealing with. I know this may be funny to colleagues, but this is true and it is true that the agency that was to deal with the regulation of rail traffic, that it rents the most expensive space in the Republic of Croatia, that millions of kunas spend on lawyers to combat workers' rights, on burden means that the agency, that it's a ban union, union action, and there are other problems, rather than dealing with this topic. Therefore this law, we can freely pass, if there are no structural changes, within the system, if it is not seriously done, responsible people, I will not return to Japanese precision again, but it is unfortunate what is normal here to be late with two, three hours as acceptable, our railroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43305	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Agent Tomislav Jagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43306	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, I answered the replica because you mentioned the reinvestment, I mentioned them to one of the replicas, so the investment was in the Croatian railway. What's important is to make a strategy and know what we're investing in and even more important is to control the funds that are being invested. We have had historical cases that a light bulb for 25 kuna cars is purchased at 80 kuna price, that a mobile ticket sales device is purchased that has never been operational, that a 40 million euro non-functioning railway is purchased for the railway line, we do not mention the theft of fuel from Croatian railways. So, of course not the agency, these things need to be controlled by other bodies of the Republic of Croatia. So it's important to have a strategy and to know where it is invested and to control it well. And we can say about the roads that they can even occur and by chance, here I am looking at Slavonia, the plain of kilometers, you have 50 bandages, maybe the one who was walking for the first time so he went to light a cigarette and he turned around and that's how the road was first created, but that's not the case in the railroad. No railway course was continued by chance, it was created very carefully because of certain needs and what is important is to revitalise those directions that have been shut down. So, the railroad needs to be invested but in a meaningful and meaningful way, and when we speak, here's what you mentioned to tourism, once when we talked to my nephew, who the young man said because he was a railway man, he said about so-called. Gutman's railroad, I don't know if you've heard of it, with us in Slavonia, that railroad, in time people ripped it apart. And the colossians, they took it all away, he just said it, I have to say those words that he said, "It's the only stupid thing I can do. Therefore, the railway should not be pulled, the rail thresholds only because one day, in any case, the traffic route can if nothing else serves for tourist purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43307	Thank you very much, reply to the replica, Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43308	Well, I'd agree with you... I am sorry here, in Sinj there was a recognizable Ferata, the old Sinj Rera which would be well returned, connect Zagora with Split as a tourist potential and development potential, and I have nothing against staying old railways, but the fact is that when we talk about these topics, roads, railways that always happens when something happens, the problem is what is always, because I am sorry that it is not the Minister of Transport here may be the topic and very important and di triba perhaps even given some thematic session of the Parliament about the tanning in the Croatian Railways and on the roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today when we came from Split on the highway she was from Split to Zagreb 181 kuna, the other day she was from the first two kunas. The only thing that is done is a strategy on how to collect something and how to fill out the debt budget that was made because there were no strategic investments. The money was where he went, I guess, to paint the tunnel. I have no idea where he went, but the fact is that now he's picked up traffic again and, yes, highways and, of course, people won't even be able to travel home on that highway anymore and take alternative routes. And it would be good if we had a good railroad so people would go with the railroad. So we're talking about serious issues. It's not enough to just collect and burden the citizens with everything, but the triba, and we're saying we have investments. As a matter of fact, all these investments that have been back in years are results and impacts. The railroad is currently on the trail. The only thing we can do is leave it with these old tracks, the infrastructure because as a tourist potential that would be great, and of course the triba build new directions, invest in infrastructure and that Croatia can develop because this is basically all meaningless as this law is. They say he's good, but he's got one flaw, not applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43309	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is a representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43310	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here on behalf of the club I spoke in general about Croatian railways and about how I see the future of Croatian railways, but I did not get to praise one thing. I absolutely think we'll all agree on this in the flood of price hikes. We have 10% toll collection since 1 July, and then Croatian railways say they lower the price of tickets on their lines. I think that's commendable, that's good. But here's what I'm reading, and here's what I'm reading is a newspaper clip, and it's going on without good infrastructure and fast trains, there's no better railroad. The big bus ride is much faster and often cheaper. So commendation absolutely for this price reduction. And another part that clearly concerns him and the first part that I spoke of. On a train ride, foreign tourists have largely decided. Says young people from the west who are used to the train to travel quickly and cheaply in their countries. To travel to their countries, however, pardons have been stuck in Perusic for 5 hours and have only just been found out from the media about the locomotive problem. So here's the flood of good news of price reductions, and here's the bad news. So our tourists have been traveling for 12 hours. I didn't really talk much about the rest of the infrastructure in the Croatian Railways, and I'm going to stay here for a while at the crossings. We here in Croatia have 1512 crossings across railway lines. Mostly all these crossings are in a very, very bad state. I have to say it from my own experience. They're dangerous. They've been waiting a long time for small train speeds. It's a lot of out-of-date devices. Here are the specific situations with me in my community, where there is one transition that has a daily maybe no more 100, 200 crossings. The device's being arranged for six months. So here's what I'd like to ask if it's possible for a device to take six months of implementation. We know what it means six months, and there's a lot of kids at that crossing because of elementary school. It is the crossing of Sutla in the Municipality of Brdovec. Six months is not possible to cross the railway line. Here I am on several occasions, saying this not only because of my unit of local self-government, but unfortunately, that's the situation. In one very large part of Croatia, my colleagues tell me that the transitions are inadequate and dangerous. So I sent a memo several times in the Croatian Railways, the first time in the first month when the transition problems began. Then I'm back in the fourth month, fifth month. The clear answer is getting rid of, getting rid of, it takes six months of implementation. Six months of device implementation. In those six months, I don't know how critical the situation was. That's why I'm asking the relevant one not to happen. I think a lot of cases depend on those little bureaucrats who need to give a certain permission to implement the devices. And there are very, very many cases like this in our Croatia. In my experience, it's been a lot of times that I've arranged some business with ministers, directors, with the directors of public enterprises, and then he goes into a black hole and I'd say red tape. Definitely Croatia is one bureaucratic state and I am not saying this because here is another option in power, but that was at the time when we were leading Croatia. It happened to me that I arranged some things with ministers, directors, directors, and then nothing happened. It's stuck on that one little wheel. That's a lot of times, and here we have a chairman who was a minister, and I've made concrete arrangements with him, and then it stops at some clerk who's here who hasn't done his job, who's either incompetent or doesn't want to do anything at that point. It is I think the general problem of the Croatian state and we should work on it, because that little man who stops the situation is like here stops the clock. Maybe the clock's great, he's doing well, so then he's one little, little wheel in that clock stops, the whole hour stops. I think we have a lot of good laws in Croatia. They should be respected. There is much that is well copied from the EU. However, it should be put into action. And in this case, I think we have a lot of people in the wrong place who just don't care to do their job. Here's my experience, and that's why I wanted to share it with the angry people who decide. HH are one large system, with large numbers, employees and sure enough to stop there. We all have to work together to push it, that every man does his job, clearly that's up to it, here, and I was talking about when we talked about civil servants, and here's the head of the local self-government unit, when a man doesn't do his job, when it's a problem with him, it's impossible for a man to quit. I'm not the one who'd like to share a hand and a hat of quits, I'm not a man who's not sentimental, so let him in fact and the strangers who are here in their names social note. But I definitely think there are a lot of people in positions that don't do their jobs and which are a major obstacle to solving problems in the Croatian state. Here we are to sort it out. Once again, I would like to mention, here at this time when we do not have the ideal relations with Slovenia, I will state one situation, that we have at the Sutla Kumrovec club which has not been in office for 20 years, so perhaps we should consider in the spirit of good neighbourly relations, to start the story, the connected representative of connecting Croatian Zagorje, Kumrovec for tourist purposes, clearly and there for all those people living in that area, to start that story too. Whether through European funds or as much as I am convinced by the relevant HZ, it does not take very large investments to put the railway into office, and the interested and local community on the one hand and on the other, and I can say that because I talked to my colleagues. Both local communities are interested, and I think that could be done. Slovenians built a railway for their part, i.e. they put the railway into operation if you know the atomic spas there Podčetrtek, Rogaška Slatina, it is in function, for tourist purposes, and we have done nothing on this side. I think that perhaps with a little effort it could be done, and then here we can say that these relations between Croatia and Slovenia are going in a single upward line, so together, in this disputed area, I would say the same thing, in this disputed area, because the railway line is going in a small Croatian area, a little Slovenian area, so that we can dissolve our relations a little bit. Here, and that's one of the suggestions so let's see what can be done in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43311	Thank you very much. And the last one for an individual debate is announced by Parliament representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Congratulations on the election and congratulations on the first session. For the debate, I was offered by colleagues who are very often discussing from point to point, because this point would be very easy and technical to discuss that HH has money. In a few days, however, there will be a debate here on the implementation of the budget. And probably all those who have criticised all this together today, and I say that later in my debate, there was good intentions of all governments, so I don't want to accuse and blame anyone. You will see how many guarantees have been issued, how many guarantees have been protested and how many funds from the position of the Ministry of the Sea, transport, infrastructure are allocated for the infrastructure of Croatian railways and in general for the assistance of HZ. However, we all forget about the picture of Zagreb, about half past half past seven in the morning and the seas of people from the railway station are on the tram towards Žitnjak and towards Jankomir. Unfortunately, there is no such thing today. Or a picture of Sisak, a railway towards Sunja, according to the Bosnian border, several thousand people come to work every morning, but we all forget that this railroad has been out of traffic for 5 years because of Serbian aggression and Croatian occupation. The same story from the east of Slavonia, the railroad we restored, with the European pre-accession funds Vinkovci-Tovarnik, was the same 7 years out of traffic. So we forget that simply many people who lived behind Split, Sibenik, Zadar, who lived in the vicinity of Zagreb simply became residents of these cities and no longer use these railways and that transport to come to work. The second thing is, what is the average Croatian car household of 20 or 25 years ago today? We forget that today we have 1,000 and a few more kilometers of highways, which we once didn't have, which are now used for cross-city transport, etc. But two stripes are definitely something we'll all agree on. Now, conceptually, what will be the line of Rijeka, Zagreb... The Hungarian border. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Will it be... Like this, we've been fighting, but we haven't done it in years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same story with this railway from the Slovenian border, Zagreb, Vinkovci towards the border with Serbia, it simply has to be 150, 160km or more because these are facts. So, if we were to see it that way, then probably our debate would be different. And yet something was trying to do, to give the railroads, regardless of the condition, because I say, many of the key lines were 5, 6 or 7 years out of function. So the power grid was destroyed, our railroad was destroyed, etc. Remember, therefore, the slopes of the trains for Split. Pomp, bought, billions of kuna spare parts, no one's talking about these tilt trains today. Why? Because they simply can't get to Split faster than you can by bus to Split. Remember the 20 limes we took to HAC and gave HZ's infrastructure with the intention that HAC would be dealt with in a different way, and that with these money that is already in the price of a liter of gasoline, HH infrastructure will help and that with these money something will be done over the past four years, it's about somewhere between a billion and 800 and 2 billion kuna. So that's a fact. With those guarantees I've already talked about, EU funds, EU funds are now available, so we're going to have a very hard time getting money for road infrastructure because we're among the first in Europe, and we can very hard to withdraw money, but we can withdraw money for certain routes as far as rail infrastructure is concerned. However, as much as railways and rail transport are important for the overall Croatian economy, the best words of fate today are Gredelja and Đura Djakovic, who practically does not have Gredelja, Đuro Đakovic is there as he is. And we forget that with these two metal giants there are hundreds we can tell thousands of craftsmen who worked for these companies who just disappeared. And when I round it up then it's a picture of the importance of Croatian railways not only as something to traffic with but for one whole overall life in the Republic of Croatia. And if we're going to look at it that way, then we're certainly not going to fight politically about it. Because I'm not going to attack a colleague of Hajdash Doncic, and I'm sorry he's presides now, so he can't answer, because he's got 20 lip points on HZ Infrastructure. He had a concept and he wanted to do something. Now, whether the two of us agree or disagree, we can discuss it. But it was an attempt to praise something worth making. Because what's for those 20 limes would probably be thought that Djuro Djakovic would be doing something, and that Gredel would be doing something. And finally what I've been saying in this high house for years and what I think HH has missed out on, and these are suburban trains. There is one trial, but this experiment has been for 20 years and a few more years it is a long Village-Zagreb that works great and I do not understand why the same story is not made according to Velika Gorica and Sisak, why Samoborček who has tradition and everything is not restored and why this story is not made according to Zapresic? So it's definitely with a little investment you can do a lot because when you look at just an example of the city of Velika Gorica, we annually subsidize ZET I think fellow BEUS somewhere with 12, 13 million kuna. If we'd subsidized half of that for HH we could have had far more quality traffic, a circular bus line around town and a great thing. So, I'm going to end this first part of my debate when we're discussing these issues I think there's no politics here, just that's the life of our fellow citizens, our citizens, and then when we're discussing this we can't move away here I say, in a few days there's going to be a report on the implementation of the budget and then we're going to take out how many... guarantees, how many guarantees we've issued and how much funds for this. And now I'm going to abuse the Rules of Procedure, but that's what other colleagues did, and I'm going to touch the Zagreb Airport, Franjo Tudjman Airport. So the logical thing is when you're doing a big infrastructure project to make it possible for everyone to have the best and the best approach, but unfortunately, that's not the case here. Someone who did this has designed this road that is now being temporarily used, although I say at the airport entrance on all sides there is a new traffic regulation since I don't know 27.3. or which one is that service road. However, there is one road that was long ago drawn that was supposed to be there with an airline school coming directly onto the underpass, and it is tied to a big-gore north bypass, it was supposed to be the road that should have kept the mother and child together because the airport, the town of Velika Gorica and Dance are the same as your mother and child, connected to your whole life, so it's two connected with employment and everything. In addition, people from Dance around the airport have invested a lot of money in recent years and built a place to stay, some five, six, some ten rooms. But today those fences that no longer serve are closed, they can't even get to that service road, and if they're going around the east bypass, it's about eight, nine kilometers, and this way it'll be two, three minutes. And the logical thing, regardless of what someone might want to see Zagreb, is that they'd rather spend the night at Dance because it takes him three, four minutes, and in the morning, if nothing else half an hour later wakes up to get on a flight that binds him. But I say with good faith, I must also commend Minister Butkovic, but unfortunately he does not solve it. It's in the intelligence of someone else, it's like these people don't know what fate awaits them. Around Velika Gorica, there is nothing in the wild parking lot of car car rental, and three large parking lots along the old dock building are staring empty. So let's not make one infrastructure project that was very important, which was very important because of this and because of that, unfortunately, do to the greats something they don't want and what they don't want. Because I repeat, the same thing happened with certain stripes. So things should be watched in the way they are, that the airport administration of the new, concessionary of Franjo Tudjman Airport must remove that fence and must think about how to get through 500m roads tomorrow with the airport and that the airport is where it belongs, and that is how the Dalmatians say diet to the mother, and I say airport, sometimes the Airport of Pleso pa Airport Zagreb, today Franjo Tudjman and Great Gorica were always a finger and nail and I don't see why it wouldn't be in the future. Thank you very much and forgive the abuse of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43313	...you didn't end up using it. We have three replicas. The first is Parliament representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43314	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker, in your debate with many things they can agree with, and also with the fact that we do not use the potentials that we have because all the countries of the world are developing a railroad, the last 25, six years in Croatia alone are less than 30,000 railway employees, and tens of thousands more people in these accompanying companies that have been attached to it. So Croatia has a geostrategic position such that it should invest in transport and transport, we do not do so even though we now have 10 billion kunas available by 2020 related to projects in railways that can relate 20 thousand jobs to themselves. Now it's just a question of whether we have enough brains, strength and knowledge that as a government, as Croatia, we use these funds and start some things from a dead end. I wouldn't just mention Gorica or what you said next, Sisak and all this stuff that connects to Zagreb. I'd mention Samobor, I'd mention Belovar who's on his way now with the project, but I hope there will be a realisation soon and that de facto people don't come with cars. And what you said at the airport is de facto also necessary to connect whether with a railway or a fast tram line. We see that our mayor here in Zagreb has announced God to make this connection between the airport and Zagreb to Kvatrić, meaning with the tram line which would then allow not to do anything about this wild parking lot but that people do not use parking lots at all but sit in a tram in the city center and go to an airport that would be so bound. So the potentials exist, it's just a question of whether we have the strength, the courage and the brains to exploit them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43315	Thank you very much, Agent Maras. The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43316	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maras, you've generally agreed with everything I've said, but I'd just say a few more sentences. I think that in Croatia we should simply stop working so that the world begins and ends with someone. So there are projects that just go on. And that's this subject we were talking about. And if it's strategically decided it's something, then someone can't stop it and destroy everything that's been invested until then. I deliberately mentioned this tilt train. 'Cause look, we were at times when there definitely wasn't infrastructure conditions we bought that train. And unfortunately, it doesn't work. I'm not an expert on that part so I can elaborate it now, I'm just talking about facts. Now, the story is whether we're going to think about the narrow track tomorrow as the nearest route to Split or if we're going to look for something else. But I'm just telling you to get on the bus, stick to all the rules on the highway, you're in 3.5, 4 hours light driving without stopping in Split. According to who's going to travel 6.7 hours on the train if he has such a possibility. But I repeat today is this debate, and that's why I called for a debate, you weren't there, went in some other direction. That's why I did mention the law about, in fact, the budget reports to see how many things are connected and when we're discussing some things we just have to tie ourselves up and not when we're discussing the budget then let the railways aside we won't even discuss them at all, but when we talk about the railroads then all of a sudden we're full of railroads, all of them pay for railroads, etc. However, you remember how many times there were discussions, so eventually while fellow Linic was there, who was always talking about railways, we used to fight as much as possible and how much cannot be given. We are going to see for the past 20 years, so 2 mandates of the SDP and 2 mandates of the HDZ how many guarantees and money were given in the Croatian railways. That number is somewhere between 25 and 30 billion kuna. What situation do we have in HZ today? I think you and I will agree that she is unfortunately tragic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43317	Thank you very much. Next up is a replica representative of Goran Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43318	You gave me a creamworth in two things in your presentation by mentioning actually suburban and railway traffic, you were talking about concrete railways and this one that connects Sisak and Zagreb. How happy are the citizens who live in Turopolje, who live in Marcljen or in the small border part of Velika Gorica and Gradić who can use the railway line to get to Zagreb in about 12, 13 minutes while all other citizens of Velika Gorica who use Zet's public transport services, we see here and today in the newspaper they get almost a fly on their backs. It's a scandalous thing we've been talking about for years and nothing changes. It's just amazing that it burns so, in the high hours of 40, 50 minutes there's no public transport. And that is why definitely suburban railways solve these problems far more effectively than unfortunately existing and public transport. When you spoke about the airport, it was legitimate to discuss whether to go to the easy suburban railway when there is already a railway crossing from the eastern part of the city of Zagreb, it is precisely the point where a large cargo terminal was to be built. No one's moved their fingers. This problem you're talking about closing down the airport. You remember I invested, who was here screaming and blaspheming and begging to get rid of it, here July there's still no solution. We're driving by the so-called. The service road until something happens. And the moment something happens at a crossroads that hasn't been trafficked, it's going to close. So what do we do? So it's about those who have been paid for their jobs not doing their job, that those who should have cared about it for the last two years haven't moved their fingers. That only when I screamed here after this pay phone started talking to the ministry. But here's what you say yourself, the Ministry isn't who they're going to solve. Then we know who it is, it's the City Hall of the Great Gore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43319	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, Representative Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43320	Thank you very much. My colleague Beus, I think these are the things we agree on in our political action all the time. So in the moments when a huge northern bypass was made and that was a long time ago there in 2007 when it all started then that road broke through with a sports recreational center or a football stadium that was supposed to end up next to an airline school and precisely came to this underpass. And it was supposed to be the entrance of the Great Gora to the airport. Why wasn't that done? I speak here exclusively in the language of people who have invested their money to deal with certain activities because they begged me. So people who have rooms, people who have rent-a-car companies. And let's not forget to rent today at the airport when the peak of the season is over 1,000 cars. So these are facts. And the suburban railroad in Velika Gorica, the first test drive was transported in '95. A year. So the city that just every day several thousand large-gores go either to school or to college or to work in Zagreb because the town of Velika Gorica only 15% of the population works in the area of Velika Gorica and 85% works outside Velika Gorica, they have to come to their workplace, now either by car or by Zet bus. There used to be talk of Mraclin being the most educated village in the former Yugoslavia, and you know why? Because they had steak through the village. And their car and college were practically what you said for 10, 15 minutes. The same story is with Samoborcec. Self-fighter is a tradition, a concept, and everyone who knows what Samoborcek is, that Samoborcek has been shut down, why? It may be a tourist attraction that can be something useful to the Samobors, but the situation is what it is, I say, this is a topic that does not tolerate politics, this is a topic that we have to strategically decide what we want, we have EU funds at our disposal and we need to use it practically with something money to do what we haven't been doing for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43321	Thank you very much. And the last replica of representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43322	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I know my colleague Shuker allergic to populism in the Croatian Parliament and to the distortion of facts, and I know that in politics you love continuity and through the minister of finance in two terms that you know very well about all those neural points related to the state budget, and in particular it is about Croatian roads, shipbuilding, as well as Croatian railways and it is good to mention those 20 Lips that were actually taken from Croatian roads given to Croatian railways in the best interest of thinking that we could improve the economic situation by thinking that we might be able to improve the economic situation in the Republic and you specifically emphasized Djuru Đaković and Gredelj, which is very good. The fact is also that what you said about the time duration of the journey from Zagreb to Split, for example or vice versa, and by comparing it with Croatian highways, there you might not be given the right to the end for the following reasons. If it is known that we have some 10 billion kunas from the EU related to Croatian railways, I think that with good programs designed for both older people and children with disabilities and playgrounds on trains, if you want excursion programs, good programs can be made that can popularise the railways in the Republic of Croatia which make the countries in our environment. I believe that part of the money can also be used there, and it can be used to improve the situation in the economy and for employment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43323	Thank you very much. Replication response, counsel Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Babić, I did not speak against the Zagreb-Split railway line, I was just talking against who he is. Unfortunately, it travels as much as it travels, but when we talk about the Croatian budget, everyone hears a public debt of 280 and how many billions are bound anyway. I'll just say four things. Shipbuilding, railways, agriculture, debt returns to pensioners, add those four together and you'll see that this debt doesn't look terrible at all. Unfortunately, today's shipbuilding is somewhere where it is, the railroad is today we're talking about the whole day where we are, and when we talk about agriculture, we're also in the situation we are in, it's a daily problem when we talk about Slavonia, when we talk about an empty Banovina, when we talk about a person where there's practically no living man, and every year we've isolated the capital investment that triggers somewhere from there somewhere between 4, 4 and a half billion kunas. These are the facts to talk about, so I said that some things have continuity, that continuity can't be interrupted, and we're here today about railroads, and that's why I called to discuss everything and everything and normally when people listen to us, who aren't in that topic to hunt for a head and with full right, with full right, but you should put facts on the table. It's just, all the governments have tried it now is that the attempt was good, bad, says it's a matter of evaluation and evaluation. If someone hadn't singled out 60 limes from the highway, 60 limes for the roads, would we be at 1,100 kilometers today? Would you so-called. State roads that reflect Croatian highways, in fact Croatian roads, looked like they looked? That's the other pair of shoes. But simply, we instead of excise duty to direct the budget, directed it to something else. And we'll probably have to reroute those funds tomorrow to do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43325	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with the individual discussion. Finally on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Tomislav Mihotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43326	Thank you. I'll ask questions like this, first of all, what was directly related to the bill. So, by regulation 1370 of 2007, we protected the domestic carrier, and the regulation allows for the conclusion of a multi-annual contract with domestic carriers. So there's an open possibility that a long-term contract will protect him in the next period of time. As for articles 23 on page 17, it was a matter of reasonable time. The regulatory authority shall, under its official duty, make a decision setting a reasonable time limit for the operator of the service facility to respond to the request of the railway undertaking for access to the service facility and for the provision of services in the service facility. It was a question of what a reasonable deadline it was? A reasonable time limit depends on the type of object. And the regulatory body decides and publishes it on its website. As regards bicycles, this was in Article 23, HACOM punishes carriers, it stands at the beginning of this point, so HACOM has the possibility to punish the carrier if it does not allow and do not allow the transport of bicycles when conditions exist. Now, there were questions regarding the overall state of railways related to the speed of transport through, by the rails. Now, we've been mentioned 100 miles an hour. All new railways that are now realised from European funds are primarily on fifth B and on the 10th corridor means Rijeka – Zagreb – Hungarian border. On the other hand, Ljubljana – Zagreb continues via Vinkovac to the east. They are designed and works that are under way at Dugi Selo – Križevci are projected within 160 km per hour. We have a number of locomotives that can achieve that speed. Currently, only this speed can be developed on the Vinkovci railway – Factory. It's a 35km track that's been realized over the past, where you can realize that speed. But the completion of these projects and these shares that I'm talking about and they're going to get that speed, because the ultimate goal is in these two directions to establish two parallel strips fully electrified at a speed of up to 160 km per hour. As for the Zaprešić railway – Savski Marof, it is now being renewed from the World Bank loan and it will receive elements that can be driven at a speed of 120 km per hour. At present, the condition of the track cannot be driven at that speed. As regards the suburban projects of this railway, which Mr Stier has asked as an inquiry regarding the link between Zagreb and Samobor, these railways relating to Velika Gorica are suburban railways that were not in this existing operational programme. But certainly after Faasiability studies, what will be built, built and in the context of connecting the airport with the city of Zagreb, and further according to Velika Gorica, the possibility of funding will be considered, and normally, if the feasibility of these projects is shown, that we will also try to get into the next operational programmes and realize. And as far as HZ Passenger Transport and as regards communication with municipalities are concerned, they are directed to communicate with the counties in the formation of their agenda and traffic schedules. Therefore, we hope that as much as possible, it will come out to meet local self-government units. I'm speaking across the county to establish driving orders that will please everyone. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43327	... State Secretary Tomislav Mihotic, on behalf of the motionary. [[Specially enabled.]] That is also the conclusion of the debate on the Law on the regulation of the rail market. Excuse me, but you're too late. Protect the rights of passengers in rail transport. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43328	Proposal for a law on regulation of the rail market and protection of passenger rights in rail transport, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 153. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. The proposal for a law on regulation of the rail market and the protection of passenger rights in rail transport is hereby adopted." Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law." Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of the 119 votes for and 5 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43329	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Final bill on amending the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 154. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, and you received these reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Mihotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43330	Thank you. The Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System regulates the safety and interoperability of the railway system, as well as the measures for the development and management of safety. The basic characteristics and intensity of the applicable law are the systematic rise and improvement of the level of safety of the railway system, and the creation of a competitive rail system in accordance with EU legislation, and technical and scientific progress. In order to achieve the established legislative postulates, in particular the creation of a competitive railway system, Article 55(3) of the applicable law provides that a vehicle with its own propulsion on the railway or rail section equipped with automatic train protection devices, auto stop devices must be equipped with a compatible automatic train protection device on board, and Article 134 of the applicable law stipulates that the vehicle must be transported with those auto stop devices until 1.7.2017. The proposed amendment will extend the deadline within which railway undertakings and infrastructure managers are required to equip a vehicle with their own drive, an automatic train protection device so as to establish the installation obligation by 1 July 2018. In the light of the explicit legal provision and the non-resuming of that deadline, it would be necessary to suspend the provision of public transport services to railways, which is as such established by the Law on Railways. The provider of public transport services to railways is in a difficult financial situation and is in the process of implementing the restructuring programme. The only possible source of financing of the auto stop installation project is through the World Bank loan, whose consent was obtained on 30 May 2017. After the necessary financial resources were provided, they moved into further activities, i.e. in the implementation of the procurement procedure, and the installation of auto stop devices. In view of the circumstances laid down, the strict application of Article 134 of the Law would have inconclusive consequences on the existence of a public transport service provider of passengers to the railway company HH passenger transport. It is a matter of economic policy, given that HZ passenger transport is a significant economic operator with a large number of employees, and the issue of installing the autostop device is necessary to resolve urgently, in order to allow smooth business and public service provision. The infrastructure manager is based on the Law on Railways also performs a public service for the management of railway infrastructure, and owns a vehicle to which the deadline is previously mentioned, and the explicit application of the aforementioned legal provisions would have very similar consequences as for the public transport service providers to the railways. Railway freight carriers are in a difficult financial situation, given the prevailing impact of other modes of transport. It is important to point out that the procedures for the auto stop equipment are in place, but taking into account the time limit set and the financial sustainability of the carrier cannot be respected. In the case of freight transport, it would have a significant impact on the ability to carry out the assumed obligations of freight transport, which, for the consequence, would also have inconclusive consequences on the viability of a company engaged in freight transport and thus on the economy of the Republic of Croatia as a whole, since freight transport to the railways, although it is in a reduced range an irreplaceable form of transport in certain economic branches. The safety and interoperability law of Art. 124, paragraph 1 of point A relating to Art. In accordance with Article 12(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the railway inspectors are required to prohibit the use and punish for the infringement of the railway undertaking and infrastructure manager if the vehicles operating on the railway line do not have an installed stop device. The amendment is necessary, since it is inconceivable financial consequences for the economy of the Republic of Croatia, which could occur with the suspension of all passenger and freight, rail transport, and given the obligation to install the mentioned car stop. It is proposed that the law enters into force on the first day of its publication in the N.N. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43331	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tomislav Mihotic. We have a replica on his display. Agent Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43332	Thank you very much, Mr. Miholic, for your explanation, the inability to install these devices has dominated, i.e. you explained that you were unable to execute carriers and goods and passengers. So now it's being changed to another deadline. What we have to take care of here is traffic safety and then give us an explanation that will be so understood by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as by the representatives for which it has not been done so far. What makes it impossible for carriers and those responsible to install those devices if they hadn't been installed, because we are witnesses all the time, I would say, unfortunately, and the accidents and problems that are taking place with us regarding railways and railway crossings. It can't be an explanation that some rock didn't just respect it, that they couldn't do it. Well, we heard a little while ago that we couldn't even build railroads that would allow people to come as you said 100 miles an hour, so 2, 2 and a half hours, so we're not gonna settle for that, are we? It's the same thing with this. We need to do this as soon as possible, in order to increase standards and ensure the safety of passengers, either in rail, or in road traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43333	Thank you very much. Replication response, State Secretary Mr. Mihotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43334	The main reason why this is not fulfilled within this deadline is financial resources. We were talking about a previous point regarding HH status, all segments of HH. This should be done in a carb on 20 locomotives, in a passenger at 48, and in HZ infrastructure on 80 locomotives. We've won, i.e. The World Bank's loan was granted, I said the agreement was obtained on 30 May 2017 and these funds are intended to implement it and therefore we are asking for a deadline of one year for them to make it possible for them to realise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43335	I thank the Secretary of State. Before I open the debate, I ask the Committee on Legislatives, Representative Jelkovac and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport Infrastructure, Mr. Cosic, do they want to take a word on behalf of the board? Thank you very much. So, I'm opening a debate. For the first debate, MP Tomislav Žagar reported on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43336	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, they say there are no urgent matters there are only people who are late. So we are late here with something that binds us to the rules and regulations of the EU, and at the end of the day and our laws that determine safety in this case of rail transport. It happens to us, we've seen in the last few days or weeks, time has been flying fast, that our speedboats sail uncontrollably on the beaches, in fact, you see cases where a man who drives a speedboat turns out to be a speedboat, and the speedboat continues to travel unhindered. That can't happen. Today's technical solutions make it possible, and especially when it comes to rail transport, imagine a train with 30 uncontrollably driven cars. As a rule, it becomes a few controls that so-called control. Safes that are installed in the railway infrastructure, which check that the driver is awake, if he does not press the guard in some period of time or if there is no delay in the train at some time and signalling requires it. So in that sense, these devices are very important. What's also important here we also have a passenger transport company, HZ Travel and HZ Cargo for freight transport we have Infrastructure, so these are three separate companies. This is where the Secretary of State said well that we are planning to use the European Bank's funds, the World Bank sorry, but what we may have warned on the Transport Committee, we do not know how it will be combined because these devices that are being built must be compatible, so they must not be able to be installed by one manufacturer, and the other producer will be, one manufacturer in a locomotive, and the other one will be with the infrastructure so by the track, because then they will not be compatible and it will not work. On the other hand, it should be ensured that these devices operate in the EU as a whole and that, in fact, on these tracks, all trains and international trains should be transported. So it's one project that's complex and that needs to be taken care of so that it's transparent and ultimately implemented. And what I'm about to say now, the Secretary of State explained well, there's no money. So the 1st of July of this year was supposed to be and that's why we're postponing for a year to get the time to get rid of these things. I deeply believe that in a year we will not delay again, for a year, because it is and fellow Maras here in the replica has warned things all very serious, dangerous. So here at the ministry is to press the administration of these companies to get these things resolved as soon as possible to enable safe transport of goods and passengers on HH. And in that sense, MOST Independent Lists will support this legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43337	Thank you very much. At the presentation of Representative Žagar we have one replica, that is representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43338	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mr. Sagar you've touched the essence of things in your presentation, but I'd only partly agree with one of your findings, which is that there's no money. There are cities that can improve this rail transport in cooperation with HZ, e.g. The city of Zagreb has a large budget of 7.5 billion kuna, which can make much more traffic in the city of Zagreb. For example. Here is enough four stations in the city of Zagreb to build to improve the traffic that we are all aware of not only of people living in the city of Zagreb, here everyone in this assembly knows what traffic is in the city of Zagreb, these are four stations of the Sava Bridge, Trokut, Cibona, Student Centre, Bus Station, Heinzlova and Borongaj north of the University campus. The four stations in the city of Zagreb have improved much better. Besides, I think some minor shifts can make it even better. For example. To me to the train station it takes 20 minutes to walk to Vrapč, and from Vrapč to Main Station 7 minutes by train. So I need more to the train station, and I think these train stations should have controlled bicycle parking because a lot of people with bicycles would come to these train stations and then switch to the city. So what I'm saying is that some cities have money, but they lack visions of how to improve that rail traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43339	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43340	A colleague of the Ice creams. I'm glad you're in a replica one important thing, it's not always a problem just money. So there's some money, but we need what we call political will. And not to say rudely often not only local politicians, even at the state level, behave like that and where I am in that story. There are people who call doctors percentages. Long ago, I think that even before the 1990s there was one project the Germans were ready to invest money for this part of the railroad from the centre of Zagreb towards the airport and everything was prepared, but the political will was not and then the project was not realized. Now I can see that the announcements are in the media and that they started with this from Kvatric towards the airport by tram line with two tracks, I think these things should be solved. When you mention the city of Zagreb, I don't live here, I come as long as the Parliament takes place and I see that there are many traffic problems and the city of Zagreb needs to be dealt with in this sense, especially because as you say there are financial resources. So all it takes is political will, you have to ask the profession, and then these problems will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43341	Thank you very much. Next debate on behalf of SDP Representative Alen Preec's Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43342	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. So here is this proposal for a law amending the Law on the Security and Interoperability of the Railway System with the Final Proposal of the Law is almost longer than what is actually being changed. Here we can tell God that it only changes in that part of the autostop machine and the extension of the deadline from 1 July 2017-2018. We've all spoken, and here we have colleagues, Sagar and other colleagues, who can see that they are using the railroad and driving on a people's transport, that's commendable. Here I am driving a few times, it's all important for traffic safety and today we've talked a lot about HZ not concrete laws and changes but generally about HZ and how important the Croatian railway is for all of us. I would say that I can express my satisfaction, and here I have the Final Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, which speaks of safety, supervision, infrastructure, rail traffic management, education and training and internal order. And around all of this together we're just changing in this section that we listed here, and that's this autostop device then we know that we can be satisfied with this law that everything works in railroads. Unfortunately, from that debate before they claimed that it wasn't all right. I'd like to be well-intentioned, but to turn back on what I think, somehow I have the impression that HH is deliberately being brought into some kind of a bad position. Why is that? Here, my doubts can only be vain and subjective. I think it might be because it would be privatized in one of our own ways. Clearly not entirely Croatian railways, but only the part that is profitable. That's how it's done out there, and I think multinational companies are interested in getting into our area, especially that profitable part. The second part, which is such a doubt to me why it is done badly in the Croatian Railways, which is to sell properties that are very, very valuable. I hope that, too, is just my suspicions and that I'm wrong. And the third part, to sell the part in the old iron. And here I was talking about in that previous debate as much as it was. My question would be, how many equipment, wagons and the like have gone into the old iron? How many years have I known? And more importantly, how much more is planned? Here's one of mine, here I would say doubtful of all this together in the good intentions of some people in the Croatian Railways. And here, Mr. Secretary of State, I can see by your answers that you are primarily competent, that you have an answer to all our questions. I believe that you have good intentions and I absolutely support all of this together, and I hope that the HF will be better in the future. I've only got one more thing and we've talked about it, we've talked about integrated transport, so let's just say for a second. I'm from a local self-government unit that along the railroad and there's a clear advantage of our people who are here at half an hour from the capital can be on the main station. I'm sorry about all those parts of Croatia that don't have a chance. Zagreb County, Zagorska County and Zagreb City are working on an integrated transport of all locals of these 3 I would say County. And I think here on this side I would support this project but also the project of all other counties should be united and make such an integrated transport that will allow all people who are not by the railway line to reach the railways and then more secure, cheaper, more environmentally acceptable in this case to the capital, in the city of Zagreb. That clearly applies to all the other centers. So be it with Split, so be it with Osijek, so be it with Rijeka, Dubrovnik and all other areas of Croatia that I would say have no opportunities. Anyway, support it. I hope that on your part as State Secretary will also go to support Zagreb, Zagorska and the City of Zagreb in order to implement this transport in an integrated manner, finally here is to get all of this on the agenda as soon as possible. Here's a commendation to all of you, Secretary of State, especially to you because I see you have a really good intention, that you're an expert. Anyway, here's the SDP club for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43343	I'd like to thank Agent Alan Prelc. We have two replicas on his exhibit. The first replica is representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43344	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Prelec, the railroad is my love and my sorrow, I am a railroadman. Since '88. I've been working on the railroad for years, and coming to the Parliament, I've been working on the railroad as a train driver since '99. years of making traffic regulations. And I can say that the railroad mirrored the state. Until the railways in the Republic of Croatia are brought into the projected state, we can't say that we have the state we should have. That must be clear for everyone. The railroad was neglecting itself. A bunch of people who don't have a relationship with the railroad were hired on the railroad, and that's one of the reasons why the railroad is in a state where it is. But the most important reason is not to invest in the railroads. Maybe it's a good way to go to concession railways where it's worth it, maybe it's a really good way. Because maybe these foreigners who have a lot of money and who have a lot of money and who have the capacity, who have everything they need, maybe they can get the railroads into what they were in before the war. I'll just say one example, the business train from Zagreb to Kutina was driving about 45 minutes before the war and now the fastest train arrives in an hour and 20 minutes. That's what I said about the state of the railways today in the Republic of Croatia. So let's look at ourselves in the mirror, and when we see in that mirror the railroad at European rail level only then will the state be the state it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43345	Thank you, counsel. The answer to the replica Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43346	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Alexic's then got a real replica from a man who was in the system who said his railroad was his love and sorrow. I agree that the railroad mirrored the state. But I don't fully agree when you say it might be better to go to a concession. I'm not saying necessarily no. I think it's in everyone's interest to be a better railroad. But from practice, Croatian practices when we know what concessioned Croatian roads look like, highways where Croatian citizens pay more toll on the part of the road where it is foreign owned. When we talk about the Treaty Act, we know that foreigners have concessions on the beach, and then Croatian citizens have to pay to bathe on beaches they've been swimming on for decades, and then I'm skeptical of it all, that Croatian railways are partly privatized by that profitable part because foreigners won't take the part that's unprofitable and that we'll all pay for the more expensive ticket. Here's what I'm talking about. I'm skeptical about the concession and privatisation of Croatian railways. That should be avoided. We have spoken before that the railways are mainly driven by those who are less payable or those who cannot be driven by other means, and that is precisely what is important to be very careful about concessions, that Croatian citizens will not be able to drive by train because it will be too expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43347	Thank you very much. And the final replica of the exhibit is Agent Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43348	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministry representatives and distinguished counterpart Prelec. Often in the debate, both the past and this mentions restructuring, the revision of railway infrastructure. So civilization's reach is today, and the speed of life, imposes the need to get as fast as possible from one point to another point, so that's where modern highways, roads of the county and local ones fit in. And there is a need, of course, to raise the level of safety of rail transport, or to install modern signalling, and especially because you mentioned car stops. It's moved by another time, but when we talk about rail transport then we have to make a difference between that transport that's passenger and freight transport. The freight transport I believe is also a matter for the secretary but also for Mr. Prelec, it is economically important for Croatia. When it comes to the revision of the railway infrastructure, I think there should be a lot of talk about building a railway line between Rijeka and Hungary. It is a railroad built in 1873, and it was one engine of Croatia's development along with Rijeka's port. But now there has been a change and the change is that the port of Rijeka, which remains the leading Croatian port, is no longer so important in the pan-European corridors. 5 B corridor is a low-level rail and I think it should be built before the revision of all the little stripes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43349	I'd like to thank the representative. Replication response by Representative Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43350	... Thank you for asking, but unfortunately I cannot answer you directly to this question, so I believe that in the end the Secretary of State answered for this railway that is important for freight traffic towards Rijeka, clearly it is extremely important for the port of Rijeka and in general that end, and I hope that this answer will go in the direction that we will know when the railway is heading towards Rijeka and who will ultimately finance it. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Please turn this microphone on.]] I believe that it will be with the help of European funds and that there will be as little burden for the Croatian state as possible and that there will be more money left for these things that we talked about around Zagreb, means all suburban lines, but also the surrounding Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Dubrovnik and what we talked about because passenger traffic is important for the operation of general traffic in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43351	Thank you very much. Following on behalf of the HDZ club, representative Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the proposings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Statistics say that today, at global level, every two hours, there is a traffic accident involving a train and a motor vehicle or a natural person. And almost half of these accidents are caused by the failure of automatic signalling devices both on the train itself or on the railway track, and these shocking statistical values are unfortunately expected to take into account and look at the sample of the test or maintenance of these signal devices. Obsolete technology on trains and railways that drive daily contributes to potential catastrophic accidents, and the development of new automatic train control systems offers a solution to passenger and goods safety, but also saves the resources needed to transport them. In order to enable EU citizens, economic operators, regional and local authorities to fully enjoy the benefits arising from the established area without internal borders, it is particularly necessary to improve the interconnection and interoperability of the railway system, which will open the market and increase competitiveness. The effective interconnection between information and communication systems of different infrastructure managers and railway undertakings, i.e. the compatibility of the system, is the basis for safety but also for quality and transport costs. Unfortunately, there are still significant differences between national regulations and internal rules and technical specifications applied by railways. Since the content of the technical characteristics of individual countries, which prescribe specific dimensions, has specific characteristics. This prevents smooth rail transport across the EU network, which needs to be removed or standardised. This legislative proposal proposes extending the time limit within which railway undertakings and infrastructure managers are obliged to equip their own vehicles with their own drive, the automatic train protection device, or the auto stop device and this legal provision, as we have heard, concerns all railway system stakeholders both these HZ passenger transport countries, HZ Cargo, HZ infrastructures and all others both domestic and foreign operators that have from the Railway Safety Agency, the permit of transport on Croatian railways. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this final bill so as not to suspend a large part of rail transport, both passenger and freight, and thus cause immeasurable damage to these societies... means Croatian railways and other operators on our railways, but also to the entire Croatian economy and society as a whole. It is good that the deadline is extended, because by not installing these devices, auto stop devices would be a problem in the work of the inspection itself. It already means five days have elapsed from that deadline that is now in force in that law and we believe that there is enough time, and what the promoter himself said in his presentation is enough time and that these companies that need to install these devices have received confirmation and received consent from the World Bank for the Insurance of Funds and that they and like all others will install a compatible automatic train protection device by 1 July 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43353	Thank you very much for representing Cosic. We have a replica on his display. Representative Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43354	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you also spoke about statistics related to passenger safety, goods and services in rail transport. So I'm thinking out loud. Croatian innovators received almost 12 medals at an Impex innovation exhibition in the US. One of these actually got a gold medal for ensuring rail-road traffic is just about crossing where there is no signalling. Today we have heard that in the Republic of Croatia there are about 1512 such railway and road crossings, so I think, I say out loud it may be a shame not to think about these young innovators, use these ideas that could possibly be used by Croatian railways and as a product might be sold to the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43355	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43356	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, here we have 1,500 and some crossings, and that's it. So you said that we have more than 1500 crossings, the road across the railway line and 66% of these crossings are unprotected. [[/Intruder Doncic: Please turn off the microphone. Thank you.]] This means that one large percentage of these crossings is more than the norm in the EU, and only 32% of the rail is equipped, means from the overall length of signalling devices, so it is one big job for our industry, both for our innovators. As far as I know, there is also a company in Croatia that does this, and it exports it all over Europe. Of course, you need to support the innovators. In all of this, if we simplify these devices, we know that it's quite expensive and that it costs a lot. Let me just say, here's a political decision, a political decision has been made and I think it must be implemented by the end, i.e. by 1.7.2018. I'd be happy to have them as home appliances, and by doing so, it means making this legislation and helping the domestic industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43357	I thank Representative Cosic for the replica. We're moving on to individual debates. But since there are no representatives of the Bulls, and neither does Representative Maras, that's what we're actually done with the debate. On behalf of the Proposer, the final promoter. Nothing? Okay. This concludes the debate on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System. They'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43358	Final draft law amending the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 154. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 123 votes for and 1 abstentions have been passed the Law amending the safety and interoperability laws of the railway system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43359	The next item of the agenda is - Final bill on protection against domestic violence, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 67. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. Would the motionary representative State Secretary Juro Martinovic, whom I also welcome to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State Juro Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43360	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me say something on behalf of the Proposer which the Proposer considers relevant in the procedure for the adoption of this law. First of all, I want to tell you briefly that this law will prescribe the rights of victims of domestic violence and the circle of persons to whom this law applies. The forms of domestic violence, criminal and legal sanctions for the protection of domestic violence, the collection of data on the application of the law, the establishment of a monitoring committee and the improvement of the work of the body of criminal and criminal proceedings, and the enforcement of sanctions related to the protection against domestic violence, as well as infringement provisions for the violation of this law will be laid down. I consider it important to tell you that this law transposes Directive 2012/29EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of criminal offences, and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220 and the Official Journal, which has been published with us not to burden you with this. So that's where I thought it was important to say, and now something on the side of the proposer. So, the differences between the final bill and the draft proposal that you discussed in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, or the Croatian Parliament, discussed whether you or anyone else. So the main and most important differences compared to the first reading in the Croatian Parliament are in line with the opinions, remarks and suggestions. Therefore, the definition of who are family members is abandoned to avoid any differences in the future Family Law that is in the making and also different opinions of the world-wide nature. Instead, it determines the circle of persons to whom the law applies and the circle of persons to whom the law applies is united, so it is, again, one newspaper, and again it is important to highlight, through this law that we had before, is protected by persons with disabilities, additionally except those who were protected both earlier and older. In this regard, a new form of domestic violence is introduced in the form of neglect of the needs of people with disabilities and elderly people. Of the more important differences is the introduction of a notification obligation, so please, on official duty... if the victim of domestic violence is a child. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the general provision is that the victim is informed on his own request, i.e. if this is what it is immediately, or in advance. There was in the creation of this legislative proposal of some dilemmas, as you can see, the Government as a Proposer decided that children must be informed, and for adults that whoever conducts the procedure, immediately in the first stage, meets the rights, and the party decides itself, or the damaged victim, decides whether it wants to be further, as it is said, secondaryly traumatized or will... Important newspapers, therefore, principles of conduct and rights of victims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, the principle of urgency in dealing with all domestic violence is prescribed. Therefore, the urgency in the procedure is determined for all competent authorities acting in the case of domestic violence, police, care centres, state attorney's office, courts. This principle ensures flexibility in responding to the knowledge of possible domestic violence as well as in taking steps and other actions. Furthermore, two basic principles that are important to highlight. The principle of careful treatment for victims of domestic violence is laid down, and the principle of care for all victims' rights during the procedure or when taking certain subsistence actions. The careful and careful approach of victims of violence, in the family of all participants, will prevent secondary victimisation, i.e. secondary traumatisation of the victim during the procedure being carried out. The proposal for this law is further in one place in accordance with the Istanbul Convention as well as the Directive on victims' rights is comprehensively governed by the rights of victims, domestic violence, so we are now counting, which rights, to speed it up a little bit, that's all the legal matter you have ahead of you. So, now we're counting which right to speed it up a little bit, that's all the legal matter you have ahead of you. By prescribing catalogs of victims' rights, domestic violence, their procedural legal position will be strengthened, active participation in procedural actions taken by competent authorities to protect and sanction the perpetrators and prevent their traumatisation and secondary victimisation in... Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Violence in the family appears in different forms as physical, mental, sexual economics and this is added new to these two people we protect, therefore, disabled and children. So ignoring the need of a person with disabilities and an elderly person as a new form of domestic violence. Unlike the current legal solution, this proposal leaves out the list of individual modes, any prescribed form of violence other than economics which is a relatively new form of violence, leaving a certain legal explanation to achieve wider court practice since so far there have been wandering in court practice and some dilemmas. The law does not need to list what is, for example, a form of violence, since legal theory and court practice clearly distinguish between the modes in which a particular form of domestic violence is lashed out. In addition, it avoids possible overlapping of the criminal section and... with violations of the Family Protection Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a solution makes it possible to clearly distinguish the criminal part from the offence, since the existence of a criminal part of domestic violence requires a greater criminal amount that assumes the cumulatively met following assumptions. A difficult violation of the rules against the protection of domestic violence, hence the Family Protection Act, and the resulting serious consequences, the fear of the safety of a family member, or of a close person, or of bringing him into a humiliating position. Furthermore, it should also be borne in mind and qualified forms of certain criminal bodies prescribed by the KZ, e.g. the offence of serious physical injury from art. 118, committed to a close person. If they are committed to a close person, which is why the work of violence in the family is subsidized, i.e. It is prescribed that the same will be taken into account if such behaviour has not been committed by someone else, more serious, criminal, rather than a criminal offence, which is being treated by this law. The existence of a violation of an independent crime and of a qualified form of individual criminal offences, if committed to a close person, has achieved the integrity of the punishment, the perpetrator of each, and even the least form of domestic violence. These persons to whom this law applies are a spouse, a life partner or an informal life partner, his common children, children of each of whom, related to a flat line, related to a sideline line, ultimately up to 3 degrees, relatives by the table to a final 2 degree, fosterers and adoptors, and the law also applies to former spouses and extramarital partners, former life partners and informal life partners, persons who have a common child and persons living in a joint household. In other words, the circle of persons to whom this law applies is identical to the circle of persons who, as family members or close persons, are subject to additional protection in the event of criminal offences related to domestic violence. Crimes of domestic violence, physical injury, serious physical injury, particularly serious physical injury, forced threats are such a provision in line with the definition of domestic violence in the Council of Europe Convention on combat prevention and against violence against women and domestic violence, etc. Istanbul Convention relating to the violence of intimate partners between current and ex-marriage partners and intergenerational violence that usually arises between parents and children. Therefore, beyond the requirements of the Convention, this law protects all persons who are married or out-of-marriage or same-sex partners and persons associated with the fact that they have a common child even though they have not been married, out-of-marriage or same-sex partners, as well as those who are not in this relationship living in a joint household. It is therefore the case of persons who are, in some form, formal or informal communities or where such a community does not exist or cease to exist, but because of other circumstances such as a common child, unresolved property relations after divorce or the breakup of an extramarital community, the fact of co-existence in the same residential facility are inextricably linked or independently of their free will directed towards each other. All other persons will have adequate protection in the event of violence against general regulations. The proposal, as it knows and the applicable law, allows the court to impose a protective measure on the prohibition of the proximity, harassment or stalking of the victim of domestic violence and the distance from the common household and before the initiation of the infringement procedure, on the proposal of the victim or other authorised prosecutor if there is a direct threat to the safety of the victim and members of his family in relation to the applicable law which requested the direct life-threatening of the person and other members of the family, which is why the courts have rarely applied these measures. This proposal requires, as a basis for proposing measures, the existence of a direct threat to the safety of the victim and members of her family, which will ensure that this measure is applied easier in the event of an emergency, immediate protection of victims of violence. The obligation to ensure that competent authorities in situations of immediate danger have the power to order the perpetrator of domestic violence to leave the victim's place of residence and prohibiting the perpetrator from making contact with the victim is a convention obligation. So here the tools are given by the bodies that carry out the procedures, so something relaxes them in terms of being able to express, quickly, urgently, immediately protect the victim from the bully. The collection of data and commissions that I mentioned will be formed related to the implementation of this law, systematically and adequately collecting data as the basis for effective policy-making in the field of prevention and combating all forms of domestic violence is one of the basic tasks that impose both the numerous conventions and the directives and the national document. However, the experience of current data collection of different bodies and resistors dealing with this topic, without systematic analysis and monitoring of the given data, has proved insufficient and ineffective and partially non-performing. In this proposal, therefore, different from the current legal solutions propose to make it mandatory for the competent authorities to collect statistics on the application of this law and on the basis of the data collected, to make up the annual reports from their work cycle and to submit the reports to the Commission for the Monitoring and Promotion of the work of the criminal and criminal proceedings body and to enforce sanctions related to the protection against domestic violence that will take place, this is a newspaper, at the Ministry of Justice. The Commission will submit an annual report to the Minister of Justice on the situation in this sector. So this proposal puts this law and its implementation into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. This is proposed due to the close link between this law and the criminal law which is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and the fact of the important jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, the state's attorney's office and the criminal courts in the conduct of this law. It is also expected that the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice has been transferred to a better solution for faster and more efficient future changes and additions to the legislative framework to prevent domestic violence when and if this requires practice and social circumstances. Penalty policy has not been changed, i.e. Infringements are equally described and penalties are the same except for a small increase in fines for committing violations against child harm, a minor and a disabled person from seven to ten thousand has been raised that obstacle penalty. Infringements committed by family members and other persons to whom this law applies in this respect are prescribed in such a way that illegal acts are more easily graduated from the most easy form of offence with the least-favoured penalty of at least one thousand or a prison sentence of up to 90 days, which is a qualified form in the case of a returnee, a fine of at least five thousand or a sentence of at least 15 days in prison. Then the further difficult form if physical, sexual or economic violence is committed in the presence of a child or person with disabilities is a fine of at least six thousand or a prison sentence of at least 30 days, and if the same violence is repeated more severe than for the first offence the fine is then at least seven thousand kuna or prison sentence of at least 45 days. Furthermore, as the most severe offence, domestic violence has been committed at the expense of a child or person with disabilities, a fine of at least ten thousand kuna or a prison sentence of at least 45 days, or a repeat of such violence, a fine of at least fifteen thousand or a sentence of at least 60 days. Violation is also provided for for the rightful offender of the offence under this law that violates the obligation of a protected measure, a fine of at least three thousand kuna or a prison sentence of at least 10 days except for the person to whom the law applies. Infringement sanctioning is also provided for healthcare professionals and social care workers and all other professionals who come into contact with victims of domestic violence, who have the obligation to report to the police or to the State's attorney the initiation of domestic violence they have learned in their affairs. These include persons working in humanitarian organisations or civil society organisations. They are not expunged by criminal responsibility, and when they find out about domestic violence in some kind of trust by the victim. So there were objections from these groups that came in contact first with the victims, these are mostly doctors and medical staff, their objections went in the direction that they wouldn't be happy to be sanctioned if they didn't report it. But it's one universal obligation for all citizens to report if they find out about the wrong of this kind, therefore criminal and criminal and normal, that the legislator has imposed it as an obligation on our doctors, regardless of the steady dose of exposure, because it's a bully, but it's simply an obligation that exists in other laws that follow this matter, and it's a violation, it's a Penal Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43361	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Mr. Martinovic. There's a replica on his exhibit. Representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43362	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Martinovic, given the problems followed by family law and knowing that the Constitutional Court has actually suspended the entire law, working groups have happened in the meantime, it has been a public consultation and... And that Family Law is actually in the draft. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder if the proposal of this law led these things not to repeat certain things, i.e. not to be in college especially when it comes to a child because the child is not an object but is a subject of legal protection and should always be kept in mind. Legal practice knows you said legal protection regimes related to domestic violence but also sanctioning them through a violation and through the Penal Code. But as far as I know, there should be no doubt. But what I do know is that the European Court of Human Rights has actually punished the Republic of Croatia and it is bound by that principle that no one can be tried twice for the same act. I assume you've been guided by this and the bill of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43363	Thank you. Reply to the replica State Secretary Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43364	Thank you, Your Honor, so the legislator, i.e. The working group, which has been going on for a long time, has long been in preparation, so the first reading has passed long ago, so it has taken care of that. It was designed, for these very reasons, to go to a whole new law, although it was essentially an old, amended law, but to avoid changes, to avoid confusion, it was decided to do so and to make sure that this law was done, when the new Family Law was passed, so that it would not be subject to amendments. So we won't have to change this law when the new Family Law is passed. And as for the practice of that, we've taken care of it, we're here in a specific sphere when there's a special group of people who, along the way, live in a small narrowed area. So, otherwise, these violations cover classic violations. It's just here, these people are privileged to protect themselves because let's just say without their will they're meeting a bully in the same space, so it's something more prominent. Croatia has faced, faced, Croatian legal practice with the provision of the European Court of Human Rights already seven, eight or maybe nine years ago when we have almost normally been punished twice for the same crimes and criminal and criminal acts, and this has already been adopted by us by the case-law. So there's no more, if it's wrong, if there's no quality coordination at the police and the state's attorney's offices, so someone's being charged with the same effects and those in the criminal proceedings are late if he's admitted here legally guilty of a crime no one can prosecute him for a crime anymore. So this law implemented it and had it in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43365	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Martinovic. I'm setting a break until 3:00 when it continues to discuss the club of MPs. Thank you very much. It's 13:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43366	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The agenda is a proposal for a law on the protection of domestic violence, a second reading. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, distinguished colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43367	I thank Mr. Vice President, I welcome Secretary of State Juru Martinovic. I'm glad you're here with us. I welcome all MPs. The topic we've already talked about, this is another law reading, but I think we need to send some more messages from here, which is that our country is joining countries that have zero tolerance to domestic violence. In the 21st century, we should be able to boast that we are a land of knowledge, progress, and that we are high on a moral and ethical scale. Yet, some individuals slow down society’s progress by abusing those who make up pillars of the main community, or family. The problem of domestic violence is becoming more and more pronounced in Croatian society, which almost always results in the social marginalisation of victims of violence. Family violence is recognised as a global problem that significantly violates the fundamental human rights of family members. We define domestic violent behavior as any act that brings another member of a family to a woman, a man, or a child in a humiliating position. Social mechanisms have not yet found a comprehensive solution to prevent or at least mitigate domestic violence. Women and children of the victims of domestic violence are one of the most sensitive categories of socially excluded, and their chance of a better life raised above a circle of social marginalization depends greatly on the help of individuals, law and institutions. And there is our role – to secure the legislative framework and to implement these same laws. If we look through a longer time perspective, let's take the last twenty and more years there have been significant changes in our society regarding the treatment of violence in partner relations and sexual violence. If we look at the issue of domestic violence, we also have a legislative framework. The legal framework is not even particularly bad. What's the problem is the application of the law in practice. There has been developed a whole series of specialized educations to work with victims of domestic violence. There are researches, there are certain mechanisms -- gender equality attorney, the Office for Gender Equality, a whole series of important documents including a protocol on domestic violence, a national team to combat domestic violence and violence against women, county teams. The Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, etc. The Istanbul Convention is now in e-consultation. The National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence 2017-2022 is the same now in e-consultation. However, you can still see 2003. The Autonomous Women's House Zagreb conducted research in collaboration with the National Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth, which shows that every fourth woman in Croatia survived physical violence by a former or current husband, or partner. And data on psychological violence show that this form of violence survived over 50% of women in Croatia. Currently in Croatia, therefore, partner violence and domestic violence affects one of the three women and daily reports about 45 cases of domestic violence, and during the holidays that number goes to 60 per day. In the last 10 years, nearly 300 women have been killed in Croatia while still reported annually between 11 and 17,000 cases of domestic violence. So violence is one of the leading causes of human mortality between 15 and 44 years old, and the World Health Organization states that most of the most severe forms of violence are still invisible to the public, hidden and happening within 4 walls of individual families. A survey of violence against women carried out by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights across Europe has shown that most women who are victims of violence do not report their experience to the police or to any of the organisations that provide assistance to victims. It was estimated that 13 million women in Europe were victims of physical violence over the 12 months that the survey was conducted, and 7% of these were aged 18 to 74 in Europe. So 7% of women in Europe from 18 to 74 years of age have been cast out of violence. Therefore, these worrying figures warn of the problem of violence against women who must find adequate answers in terms of meeting the needs and rights of victims in everyday social practice and not just on paper. We've had good laws so far, but the problem is they're not being implemented. Since the first contact, when women report violence in the police department, they've mostly had very bad experiences. Immediately, they as well as the abuser receive a misdemeanor report. The Social Care Centres lack people who would deal with these very problems, and the people through whom the problem of violence tries to solve itself most often are not educated so that they often do not recognize different forms of violence, because it is not just about physical violence. It can be psychological, emotional, economic, etc. Unfortunately, we also witness fatalities that preceded multiple calls to the police for action. Also, social care centres often do not report violence to the police that, under the Protocol on Family Violence, they are in debt, but it does not. There's a lot of things they miss to do. If the court determines the supervision of seeing a child with his father on the weekends, they don't provide that surveillance either because they don't work on weekends. We know they're gone, but we know what their obligation is. Also, women tell us that officials treat them harshly and do not show basic human empathy. They should perform with a specific sensitivity to the problem of domestic violence, which is exactly what it says, but they don't. They're biased about men, women are often perceived as emotional, irrational, not stable enough. It's not like that. People who should provide assistance do not fully understand the needs of these women and the doubts they are going through, and I think that if understanding were greater, that the conduct of responsible persons would be more meaningful and more helpful for all women who are in a similar situation. As far as sexual violence is concerned, the situation is even more unfavourable than domestic violence, given that it is a larger stigma, a far more covert problem because victims are much less willing to report family sexual violence and go through a whole long-term procedure. For the last change of the 2013 Penal Code, I can say that again at the expense of victims of sexual violence, by reducing the suspended sentence from 1 to 10 years, and the perpetrators are given the most frequently minimally prevented sentence. Very often there is equalisation of the victim and the bully, the police officers did not determine who the primary perpetrator was in the situation of domestic violence, and then they would report to one and the other person, and the one who was the primary perpetrator and the one who defended herself in the situation, so there was no fundamental difference that even experts in the report from Europe found when they analyzed the situation in Croatia. I stress, however, that in recent years, the police have made significant progress in identifying the perpetrators of violence. Most objections continue to be made to a judiciary that does not function at such speed and change as it should. Under the Law on the Protection of Family Violence, these procedures need to be processed in haste, but they happen to go into regular procedures which should not happen but unfortunately still happen. The Autonomous Women's House, which made a lot of remarks, but also the Source Association, most of all, had comments about it, means it's a matter of urgency, but ultimately it's not realized. The whole idea was, then, that domestic violence was resolved at the wrongful courts in order to be quick and effective. However, that idea did not come to life, because judges do not do it as prescribed, but everything goes into regular procedure, and it should go urgently. And then the victim wasn't protected and she made a big step, she reported violence, she was in the police, she was in court, she dared to do all that, and then the court failed, called and called and invited and the victim and the perpetrator in 3, 5, 7 or 9 months, it's too late. It's a long period in which we have the person most exposed, we have an exceptional threat to her life and the safety of her and the children, because the system didn't react properly. That woman can be placed in a shelter but then she has to go to work, she has to follow the child to kindergarten or school, she can't be locked up for a year and every time she comes out she's threatened and the system is there if there's not been a mistrial and there's no restraining order, she's actually putting a lot of danger. If the procedure was conducted faster, it would be more effective. And something and kids. Children are the most sensitive group in domestic violence. When a child lives surrounded or is a victim of domestic violence, there is a trauma that will eventually turn into a permanent scar that he will have to struggle with his entire life. In addition to affecting the child's psycho-physical development, trauma can also affect brain development and cause insufficient development. The symptoms of trauma over time do not decrease but grow, and have an impact on each and the smallest part of a child's life and later an adult. Violence today is unfortunately an increasingly widespread phenomenon, and from that family violence on the street, in schools, in stadiums, according to people who are different by some traits and who are considered a threat by the attacker. Family violence is present in all countries of the world. And today, we believe that every fifteen minutes a woman is physically abused. It is children who are most often and with the victim of the most vulnerable witnesses and although not always, and who are physically abused as witnesses to violence can suffer the consequences that will follow them all their lives. Furthermore, the child gets a message that abuse is a normal form of behavior and generally absorbs negative behavior and can conclude that abuse is correct and will likely try and only execute it over a victim he will at some point assess as weaker and less valuable. To avoid this, it is necessary to recognize, assist children and victims and witnesses of violence. And for the end, women and children, the victims of domestic violence are one of the most sensitive categories of socially excluded. We still have insufficient education of all those who are located or will be in the workplaces tomorrow in the chain of violence in the family, by the police, the judiciary, the assistant professions, including welfare centres or mental health centres. Still, people in these systems in their primary education, in colleges, do not get enough content regarding domestic violence until absolute violence is informed about it. According to current European regulations, Croatian cities still lack places in shelters for women and children victims of partner violence, we do not have sufficient numbers of centres for victims of sexual violence. There are only half of the places offered in the number shelters that should actually be available at this time in Croatia. Croatia has not yet ratified the Istanbul Convention, we hope it will, or the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, which hopefully will, when ratified, give some strength for civil society organisations but also greater security for women victims of violence that they can confidently know will be adequate good legal support but also all other support they need to be able to pass through traumatic experiences that have been experienced and re-established control of their lives. So, the law has received a lot of objections in the e-consultation, and the remarks are largely not in line, today we have a final law. Despite the many remarks that could improve this bill of law, the MOST club will still support this look of the law, although we believe that it will soon also need the changes that have been proposed during time, but have not now entered it. I think the law needs to come into force as soon as possible, as well as to continue this process of ratification of the Istanbul Convention in order to settle into the order of the countries that ratified it and thus join the fight against violence against women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43368	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić for the debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43369	So I would just like to point out to my colleague, thank you for the words, I would like to point out, although although the constitution is full of the fact that it is necessary to ratify the Istanbul Convention, that at the parent committee at the beginning of this week, the ruling majority voted against the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, therefore I believe that this is something that needs to be talked about more in public and that the government will give its proposal for a ratification law. The Ratification Act de facto has 1 article, which says the Republic of Croatia has ratified the agreement itself. According to this, the text of the law does not comply with anyone, and I believe that it is something that can be accepted immediately, agreed and accepted by all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, without having one vote against, and I call on everyone when the vote comes on the agenda to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43370	I thank my esteemed colleague, Varga. Reply Dear colleague Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43371	I didn't know about that, Mr. Varga. I just wanted to point out that I saw a strong good intensity in the current administration within the Ministry of Demography and Social Care. The very good intentions of the current minister and her state secretary who actually started the whole story were written a proposal of the Law on ratification of the Istanbul Convention and a national strategy to combat victims in the family, which is a great text that will allow one framework, and I also hope that in the name of the family as one party who insists on going against something that is today a civilized one norm that we have to accept, will have no greater influence and that parliamentary representatives will ratify that convention very soon, with the support of all MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43372	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić for his reply. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43373	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The HDZ Club supports this law. In our first reading, we had a more extensive discussion, so I will now take the opportunity to also say that several fields are being worked in parallel, except for this law, since certain provisions of the Istanbul Convention have already been incorporated into this law and two other laws that are being prepared. This law normally falls under those laws which must be amended among others because of the ratification of the convention that will take place in 4 quarters this year, as announced by the resolution ministry and the adoption of laws on the same, so on. The Istanbul Convention. As we know the proposal for this law came for several important reasons, so I will remind you very briefly, before the first reading, we have already seen that the old law, and by 2003, domestic violence went according to family law. This old law had certain shortcomings and incompetence in practice and another obligation which imposed the adoption of this law is, above all, two international documents, but also some other documents which I will not mention now, but already mentioned so-called. The Istanbul Convention and the 2012 European Parliament and Council Directive establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of criminal offences. And of course, like I said, some more papers. As we know from the practice, the need for the law is high, because we see, unfortunately, a number of cases of domestic violence so far, statistics show that only over 10 months last year, there were 267 crimes of domestic violence, of which 232 cases were women, and last year 9 people and 11149 violations of domestic violence were killed. It is important to note very briefly that this law goes towards solving a problem mentioned by State Secretary Juro Martinovic, so Croatia was convicted on several occasions before the European Court of Human Rights of Human Rights for violation of the principle... and for double trial, therefore for the same act, i.e. overlapping with the description of criminal offences and criminal offences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, it is important to point out that these laws are closely linked to criminal and criminal offences, in other words, applying general provisions of criminal and criminal proceedings, where it is not regulated by this law. In objective terms, several articles were controversial and were discussed in the first reading and on individual committees. I'm not going to list them now, part of it's been filed through the amendments. The law is now in drug reading, and the new point is that now the relevant Ministry of Justice is, rather than more, the Ministry of Demography and Social Work, which is clearly absolutely logical and justifiable. The provisions of European legislation are now incorporated and this law and they are very useful and very desirable and of very important possibilities, I would say only 2. This is the possibility of urgent protection of victims of violence through measures that protect the victim and are better resolved and better regulated than before, and even though the title of the law is family. It has already expanded according to European legislation, and in reality it refers to much broader formal and informal communities. It is also an important paper to distance the bully from the victim or prevent or better say prevention from repeated violence because statistics show, and also relevant research not only of the MUP but also of other resolute ministries that unfortunately repeated violence ends often and fatally by killing the victim by the same bully who was not adequately sanctioned or punished. It should always be stressed that the best way to prevent violence is therefore a quality legislation. I think this law is a step towards it, we're on a good path, we're now introducing a newspaper, it's also important and education is done through the Ministry of Resort. And what may be most important, I always like to say that family or education and awareness of violence are acceptable forms of behavior or is not something that we view as normal behavior or not. And it has been proven, of course, that those children who grow up in families where violence is common in the highest percentage and alone when they grow up to think that way. The HDZ Club supports a second reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43374	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic for this debate. We have one replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43375	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representatives of Petrijevčan. I am surprised that you have now mentioned that the HDZ will send this government to ratify the Istanbul Convention did you before, when the government of Zoran Milanovic said that you would not accept it and you have strongly criticised it and your representatives said that the controversial gender ideology mentioned in this Istanbul Convention was. So I'm interested here in the last few days I'm really a little confused, namely everything SDP stands for, and you support it, all of what HDZ advocates support SDP representatives, we've seen in Friday's vote. They also supported CETA and sending Russian soldiers to the Russian border, and here we saw yesterday they agreed together about GMOs, so I'm really confused. In fact, what is the function of the government in Croatia, what is the function of the opposition, do we actually have a large coalition already in place in this House? Here's what you encouraged me to ask that question a little bit. So here I repeat again, while Zoran Milanovic's government was fiercely critical of this, and now the same thing you're criticizing is what you're sending into the procedure yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43376	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc. Reply from a colleague of Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43377	Thank you, Vice President. I'll answer even though I don't know who this replica is addressed to because it certainly isn't me. As far as the Istanbul Convention is concerned, it was signed in 2013, why it has not been ratified to date or until this year, these are the responsibilities of some former governments. The government has announced ratification of the Istanbul Convention several times and is scheduled for the last quarter of this year. As early as December, the prime minister announced under his programme that financial resources were foreseen as the ratification of the Istanbul Convention implies amending several laws and financial resources that go accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43378	I thank my esteemed colleague, Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic, for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Martha Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43379	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor. We are on the eve of the second reading of the Final Bill on the Protection of Domestic Violence, and although the first reading was a very extensive debate on all the points of this law, I will return here shortly to some points that I consider to be the most important and that I think should contribute to one positive practice. We are aware that the victims of domestic violence are mostly women. According to existing statistics, the number of women killed as victims of violence on an annual basis ranges from 22 to 45 per year. Every 28 days, a woman was killed, and every day 30 women were victims of domestic violence. So the statistics we are reading are very devastating, and they are in some way proof that all the legal regulations and actions of the competent authorities so far have not been effective enough. In this very sense, we welcome some of the amendments and the newspaper that this law brings, and we hope that it will contribute significantly to the change of this practice. Our Constitution cites gender equality as one of the basic values, and in addition, in our Constitution, it guarantees protection against any form of discrimination and abuse to all citizens. On the basis of these constitutional provisions as well as on the basis of different international rules, this law has also been adopted. Now, some of the newspapers he brings, which we consider to be very good quality, are, above all, in this law, introducing EU directives on the establishment of minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of criminal offences. So now this law regulates the procedures and way of handling bodies that are obliged to pay particular attention to victims of domestic violence all in order to prevent further victimisation. In addition to the protection of victims, victims today have precise rights in the law, so it is the right to access services to support victims of violence, effective psychological and other professional assistance, protection against intimidation and retribution, protection of dignity during the examination of the victim as a witness, escorting a person from trust in taking the hearings and so on. Then there is the right to the confidentiality of the data, the right to be informed on the request of the victim about the course of the infringement proceedings, etc. So these are those provisions that we have now introduced and in order to protect further traumatisation and victimisation of domestic violence itself. And we believe that these precisely measures could further protect the victim and be in practice very positive. Furthermore, this law now extends the circle of persons to whom it applies. From the first to the second reading, regulation was applied in a way that in the first reading of the instructions that members of the family within the meaning of this law and then it was taxed by the members of the family, in the sense of this law here, I see it in the second reading, avoiding this because of the fact that there have been objections about who family members are even though this applies only to this law. So now there's a much wider circle of people, so it's a spouse, an extramarital mate, a life partner, an informal life partner, their shared children, children of each of them, blood relatives in a straight line, relatives in a sideline line, ultimately to the third degree, relatives in a marriage and extramarital community to the final second degree, adoptors and adoptors. Now that it has given up the wording to be cited, that it is family members within the meaning of this law we believe that there were no obstacles and reasons and to fail to quote an intimate partner. Because we often witness violence between partners who don't have to live together and where the community doesn't have to be, there doesn't have to be a more permanent character. So we believe that this form of intimate relationship could be listed in this law. Article 10 now defines what is considered to be domestic violence and puts in place a much wider diapason of relations so that it would be convenient or to protect victims in the family environment. So now with physical violence, physical punishment, psychological violence, sexual harassment listed and economic violence, while this second reading added neglect to the needs of people with disabilities. Since criminal sanctions, this law provides for safeguards, fines, prison sentences and other criminal sanctions. Protection measures shall be listed as lex specialis in this Act 4 protective measures. There is a mandatory psychosocial treatment, then sending treatment to addiction, and in particular well-worked measures, restraining and stalking of victims and the distance of thugs from the common household. In fact, it has been a bad practice so far, when most often a woman reported domestic violence she was then forced to move out of the house. Given that this measure is issued within 24 hours, given that its duration may be from 2 months to a year, we believe that it will contribute to a better solution to this issue, that now those persons who are victims of domestic violence will have the opportunity to eventually move out will have one reasonable deadline within which they will be able to organise their life, find accommodation, possibly employment. And in some ways, we believe that this measure has contributed significantly to solving this problem that was before, which is that the victims of domestic violence were found after applying to the streets. So these are some of the more important newspapers of this law, of course they're not the only ones, but some of the better changes and the law is, for the law, we can say that it's basically good, of course it's not ideal and it can always be better and more comprehensive. Discrimination and abuse of women is a problem of society, it moves within the family and then goes beyond that family. So in order to address in general this problem of discrimination against abuse he must, his resolution must be more comprehensive. In addition to this law, a number of laws must be regulated, including a number of state institutions and not even the government sector. We have already highlighted this problem several times, which and how it can be solved, which is exactly the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. The SDP club launched ratification of the Istanbul Convention symbolically on 8 March 2017. The Istanbul Convention was also presented by the proposing committee, but the proposal for its rapid ratification did not unfortunately pass. Although we are now witnessing an e-consultation for the convention and ruling announce that it will be ratified by the end of the year. We will support it and, of course, welcome it and hope that it will indeed be so. Because only the Istanbul Convention will force us, means that we comprehensively regulate the legislative system and launch all institutions in the fight and protect people from domestic violence, from any form of discrimination and abuse. Namely, the Istanbul Convention, it imposes an obligation on signatories to change the position of gender role and stereotype in society. It encourages education of experts in working with victims, it raises awareness of the harmfulness of violence and the consequences of traumatic violence, it raises the quality of education in this direction, encourages cooperation between the NGOs, the media and the private sector to actively engage in the protection of women from violence and discrimination. Signatory countries must provide enough money to actively finance the treatment and assistance of victims of violence, to finance safe houses, telephone lines. It must then be fully regulated and adapted to criminal legislation in order to ensure the punishment of the heirs, in order to ensure that the procedure for the protection of the victims and the conduct of the infringement proceedings is carried out as quickly and as effectively as possible. So these are some of the measures that we will be forced to take because the current situation in our country is such that we have about 10 shelters for victims of domestic violence, that these shelters have limited capacity and that, of course, not all persons can be taken care of. Then, we have a national strategy or we don't have a National Strategy on Protection against Violence today because it's expired, it was the period until 2011 to 2016, after it expired we haven't evaluated it or brought forward a proposal for a new strategy, it's supposed to be a new strategy in the e-consultation process, I've heard it now during the debate, but I didn't know before. So that is also on behalf of the SDP club, I can say that we will support this law in the second reading, although we still think that it is not enough, that only after the ratification of the Istanbul Convention will we begin to work seriously to solve this problem, i.e. To combat violence and any form of discrimination, and it is time to finally show, by doing so, that the protection of our victims is not only a declarative character but also something concrete in this regard. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43380	I thank my esteemed colleague, Martha Luc-Polanc. We have a replica of a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43381	Thank you very much. My colleague, we all forget here in our first reading we talked a lot about the causes, the most common causes of domestic violence. It is mostly alcoholism, in families and alcoholism that affects this violence, of course, and drugs, but alcoholism is the key problem where our system did not allow those people who are being treated with alcohol from this disease, addiction, and create a problem in their family violence against their children, their wife or anyone else, the system did not find the possibility, except that he transferred to the verdict that these clubs of treated alcoholics, that they assume the obligation to control these meanings of people who work, repeat the excesses in their family, i.e. There's violence in the family. It's the fact that our system didn't mean it allowed enough to care about the victim but also the perpetrator to be prevented from doing so. It's just that we're only referring to conventions, someone is going to come to us from Mars now, so they're going to help us here because we're going to have a convention that someone is going to say that they're not, but the fact that our system is simply not up to solving this problem, and all of these regulations that we're bringing into reality are visible to alcoholics, treated, i.e. who are making a problem in their family that they are not controlled and that the system has not made the best possible to control these people who are committing violence against their family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43382	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. Answer from a colleague named Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43383	Thank you. So I can agree with you fellow MPs that one of the reasons for domestic violence is alcoholism, and exactly what you say, that system has failed, the system has to be invested a lot more, it has to be working on a greater education of experts, and in this sense it's important that we ratify the Istanbul Convention to make adequate amendments to legal provisions, to secure enough money, that, as you said, competent institutions that care and treat addicts, means that they are educated and that they have the means to help these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43384	I thank my colleague Luc-Polanc for his reply. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Independent Representatives and HSU Club, distinguished counterpart Nada Turina-Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43385	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The topic of family violence is, of course, an extremely sensitive topic, i.e. a sensitive area and data that tells us about which are available through various research and statistics that are being monitored and in Croatia, but also broader meanings in Europe and global scales, unfortunately they are poor, or more than frightening, meaning how much of the statistical violence in the family has been recorded over one year in a particular area. Every law, and here's this law that we have now, six years later, seems to me to be going into a new proposal to make changes, or changes that certainly make one step forward, first of all to protect the victim. The intensity of this proposal is to create a catalogue of the rights of victims of domestic violence, to strengthen their position during the proceedings, and to enable them to participate actively in the process and to prevent further traumatisation and secondary victimisation of participants unfortunately in the act of violence. So our club will support these changes because they are heading towards reforming the regulations or to correct this law, to first and foremost protect victims of violence, however, I will point out that of all the objections that were made during and debated in the first reading, and during discussions on committees, one good part has been adopted which we are particularly pleased, one good part of the remarks adopted and included in this proposal for a second reading, but one part is not. Since we have all talked a lot in our first reading on this bill, I will in fact highlight in this second reading what is in the debate and on the committees and in the first reading highlighted as a problem, and what is not accepted, among other things, one of the problems that has arisen, which is proposed by this law, until doctors, or official persons present at the time of the report of violence, namely those who are witnesses of the violence in the case of the treatment itself, or the presence of the doctor, are obliged to report it, which I do not think is a questionable obligation, but is proposed quite high for those who do not. And there developed a lot, I'd say a constructive debate. Unfortunately, this punishment is intended to be such that it is more than the punishment of the bully in the process, and it certainly does not send a good message, that is, first of all, against what we are, and the second would be one proposal, which I think the Secretary of State said in the debate, that a particular solution might be found, and that is to say, doctors who carry out such an application have certain protection, that is to say, to protect them from the same bully they have reported in the entire process. I think it would be extremely good, I don't know if you've talked to the Ministry in the meantime, I think you'd have far more efficient that whole system, because those people who do it, so people in official duty, were doctors or social workers or some others who are in charge of that whole chain, would have dared more often, I would have said so and felt more secure in this whole process. I personally know a case where a person who was a victim of violence where it was completely evident, by injuries and by all accounts that she was a victim of violence, she herself was not brave enough to report it, but they did not unfortunately report even the official person. Now, what are the reasons, there's probably that fear, that's first of all, means fear in those people who are in charge of it, and what we've additionally introduced is the possibility that they'll be punished, I think they'll create an additional problem. They should be tied up, but they should be protected and safe, and then they'd have more of those solved ones, I'd say cases of violence and then they'd separate the victims from the violent ones. There was also an instigated discussion about relationships, in principle, girls and young people who walk for a long time, who are in some sort of extramarital relationship but are not living in the same place, do not live in a joint household and have arguments on the side, says the Ministry of Justice, which is that in the case of violence they are subject to other laws, i.e. criminal laws, as well as any other violence. However, attention has been drawn, and we think with full right that the relationships that are emotional in nature, which last for a long time, are something quite different from some kind of friendly or random relationship in which violence occurs, which, unfortunately, we are witnesses and through and we see that they happen, and even unfortunately, the murders resulting from such relationships. We've had a case like this recently. So definitely, in some future step, we should think as widely as possible about all relations in society, that is, all the potential situations in which in such communities, regardless of whether they are formal or not, there is a formal event of violence that may have a sign of family violence. What we also support, and we had on this on the parent board of debate, which is a ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which will certainly contribute to resolving this problem systematically, to single out in the finality and the means to do so, because we are all aware that the implementation of the conventions and implementation of the Convention requires and certain financial resources. But that's what we can't run from. I think it's time after almost all the countries are in our closer environment, so in our region, our neighbors that we often like to compare with and say that we're much more advanced than them, much ahead, they've all ratified that convention and I think it's high time to do it. SDP colleagues have suggested that it be done immediately, the committee did not pass, but I think that when it comes to the plenary session it may be a different mood. So I call on my colleagues, since the government also has a plan at the end of the year to put that ratification in the process so that maybe this is the end of our session we wouldn't be burned to agree to ratify that convention and start acting on it. Here's what our proposals would be. To think about these two, three things that we've highlighted, and of course we'll support the bill on second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43386	I thank my esteemed colleague, Nadia Turna-Djuric, for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43387	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I'm glad you mentioned exactly the people who were first in contact with the victims of violence. That's what we had yesterday, I'd say a rather constructive debate on our committee. I'm glad we finally mentioned those who first come in contact with the victim. And unfortunately, they become victims too. Often it happens that neither doctors nor social workers are protected from the violence itself, whether it is verbal or physical violence. What we've proposed to the secretary of state, it's not just about reducing the fine unless it's reported. So none of the people who work in the system will say for sure I won't report it. Everyone will report, but we who work in this system also want protection because you have to understand that we have families who suffer the same for our work. The penalty of whatever it is, especially if it's three thousand or twenty or fifty thousand kunas, won't affect whether something's reported or not. What will really impact will be that we need help and that in this entire system we can all function well. So I'm going to do it again, of course, reduce our sentence, don't treat us like a bully because we're still humanitarian and we're doing our job in the best possible way, but also protect us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43388	I thank my esteemed colleague Josic for the replica. Reply from counterpart Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43389	Yes, my colleague Josic, I had a need to highlight this observation which was made yesterday and which was talked about even in the first reading regarding the proposal of this law because I also consider it personal, and our club thinks that we may be dealing with a very important problem here at first. In fact, we are a patriarchal society still at least generally as such, we can characterize it and in some ways still quite conservative that it doesn't necessarily have to be bad, but surely in the good part of people who do this kind of work, it means that those who first meet with violent people, whether they are doctors or social workers or some waste in humanitarian associations or in some other associations dealing with the protection or rights of women or the protection of women from violence or children, etc. There are many of them, meaning that some of the primary prejudices, and then the fear that arises from this, are probably quite justified in view of the experiences of our colleagues and others and what we read through the media, surely that we should be placed in such a way that at the very beginning these people who must have one particular civic courage to do so in an appropriate way, not to put them directly and directly at risk, and not to provoke any potential future violence, not now in the family but what comes out of this framework. So here's an appeal if there's anything to be done about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43390	I thank my esteemed colleague Nadia Turini-Djuric for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43391	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say that the biggest cause of violence today is economic violence and that the economic violence that is being waged against the state is automatically being carried out against each member or individual, and that is why people live in poverty, they have no money, etc. And if you ask people who fight most often argue over money in the family, husband, wife, children, etc. And I believe that if that money shortage was cut, or if there was more money, then people inside the family would argue less. And one more thing, often times if you ask women who suffer violence they tell you in the end, so let's say I'm the victim of violence, but if I leave my husband, I'm not an economically independent person, so I can't find a normal job that I can pay rent from, direct and live a normal life. And that's why not only because of the lack of money comes to violence, but once there's violence again because of the lack of money, people agree to violence. And unfortunately this law doesn't get into that one, I would dare say, the fundamental fundamental root cause of violence. In the end, violence is not conducted in the family in terms of a member over a member but is directed both by a state or by a society over a family. This is basically violence against the family, this kind of violence is also unfortunately not of interest to anyone. It was up to me to tell you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43392	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this debate. We have one replica of the esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43393	Dear colleague Pernar, I disagree with you that lack is the only cause of violence. Lack of money and economic problems, instability, lack of work are one of the problems of frustration in Croatia, but domestic violence occurs in all categories of family in poor families, in rich families, in highly educated families. You'd be surprised how many intellectuals actually beat up their wives and how many happy families. And these are all myths that we need to talk about today as well. You have a myth that marriage fights aren't serious that happens in every marriage. That's incorrect. Marriage fights are serious and require the attention of society or victims enjoy violence if they did not. I can't leave, no one enjoys being abused it's a fact or a myth victim causing violence the abused woman asked for it, it's not true. The abuser causes violence and he's responsible for all his actions, except sometimes a woman doesn't have the strength to turn the whole story around if she knows she's going into suspense. Now there's a problem that maybe the woman who's better at economic status, who's employed by the one who knows she's going into total uncertainty at the safe house, after which at some point she has to go out, there's no, she's not educated, there's not enough funding, and so on. So it's the same thing that's the only problem money doesn't. Many poor families are very happy but you also have very many and rich families, highly educated who are extremely unhappy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43394	I thank my colleague Strenja-Linić for the replica. And the answer, colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43395	I did not say that money is the only reason why, or lack of money to be the only reason for violence, but I believe that it is one of the essential elements that often causes violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43396	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Pernar. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43397	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Regarding the Law on Protection against Family Violence, I would refer to Article 18, which speaks of the protective measure of compulsory treatment against addiction. So that protective measure already contains both the Criminal Code and the Penal Code. This Regulation shall enter Infringement law refers to a safeguarding measure of mandatory treatment against one month-to-one-year addiction when the court may give the defendant who committed the offence under the decisive action of alcohol addiction, drug addiction or other kind of addiction if there is a risk that this addiction will lead to an offence in the future and is the same thing in Article 69. A criminal law that speaks of that security measure. So what's kind of new is the mention and definition of other kinds of addictions. And we also know from pathological gamblers that it is often associated with gambling with physical violence. There's been talk of multiple types of violence. It should also be pointed out here when it comes to violence or aggression that it is not a disease at all but a symptom and depending on whether it is some kind of personality disorder or a mental illness in the narrow sense of the word, then this aggression should be approached in a different way. It has also been pointed out several times that zero tolerance for violence, the duty of officials to report this violence and it is in principle and reported. But it's a much bigger problem for me when a person who is a victim of violence alone doesn't want to report that perpetrator of this violence, and that's why we also meet in psychiatric hospitals because it's a matter of what happens after and what happens when he gets out of custody, what happens next. One of the problems that arises with the imposition of a mandatory treatment measure of addiction is that judges sometimes do not express a protective measure of mandatory treatment against addiction as well as a protective measure of mandatory psychosocial treatment to complete the file as soon as possible. Because they are somehow forced to do more statistical indicators as soon as possible. And if a mandatory treatment measure is imposed on an addiction which is in principle a year then it is a matter of sending a notice by a health institution, whether it is the county services of the Public Health Office, whether it is hospital institutions, they are obliged to report whether the person to whom the protection measure has been given is regularly coming to treatment. The second same situation should be mentioned is that there is a difference that depends on the counties and the idea of zero tolerance towards violence. In fact, we know that certain police administrations are much, much more sensitive to, as is seen in certain indicators, again statistically that there are significant differences in individual counties related to accessing zero tolerance to violence itself. One of the problems is who says, or who makes the diagnosis of addiction. Namely, the judge cannot give a protective measure of mandatory treatment against addiction, if one of the families, because I doubt the unsub himself will bring the documentation, unless one of the families brings the medical documentation, if the medical records do not have it, he should order psychiatric expertise and then again, these are additional costs, and again reduces the number of procreation measures of mandatory treatment on addiction. I would also like to commend the introduction of categories related to persons with disabilities and elderly people in this law, I think that's very good. And simply in this way often times a kind of neglect and abuse that does not necessarily have to be a physical character for this vulnerable population is good that it is within the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43398	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Celic, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Željka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43399	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Cellic, you have now made it very clear to us what the symptoms and what the disease is in this case. Since you're a psychiatrist and I believe you have a lot of experience with it, I'd ask you, how often do you think violence is in addicts and how many people with other mental disorders? And I'm glad you mentioned the courts, because they're still your doctors, and it's your profession that needs to be diagnosed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43400	I thank my colleague Josic for the replica. And a colleague's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43401	Here is a respected colleague, Josic, therefore, with protective measures there is a protective measure of mandatory treatment against addiction and mandatory psychosocial treatment, which is found in article 15 of the addiction and compulsory psychosocial treatment contained in Article 15, so unfortunately here we are witnessing recent events where addicts committed physical violence and against doctors, and you are parties to the HDZ Representatives' Club to advocate amendments to the Penal Code not only to MUP employees, but also to other public servants apply the Penal Code to treat this as a criminal offence. So, the fact is that addicts are mostly influenced by a certain psycho-active substance or by abstinence syndrome is aggressive, there is a greater likelihood of violence, but there are also those who are not addicts and may be some kind of personality disorder, most often it is an antisocial personality disorder, then a measure of mandatory psycho-social treatment can be given where this treatment is then conducted in respect of the intended institutions. It should also be mentioned, therefore, that this aggression may also be within the framework of a particular person having a mental illness in the narrow sense of the word and because of the deterioration of that person is, among other things, aggressive, that aggression is one of the symptoms of exacerbation of that disease but then it is not contained in these protective measures but is then resolved in another way, in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43402	I thank my esteemed colleague Cellic for his reply. Next replica, distinguished colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43403	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Cellic, I'm very glad that you mentioned the protection of persons with disabilities in your debate. I would like to say that the previous law had in certain provisions and in infringements protection of persons with disabilities, but this law, which is to be commended, has further implemented in its provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is extremely commendable. It is known that people with disabilities are particularly women with disabilities, double, triple the discrimination of other women but have fought to establish SOS phones for their empowerment. People with disabilities were not happy to report violence because it is known that in their abusers who are unfortunately very often in the family depended on economically and simply were not able to choose in any way to separate themselves from their own family. Since the SOS phone exists in Croatia, we can say that women with disabilities are increasingly callers on that phone, and unfortunately I have to say lately, very often men. So, once we started the phone, we managed to strengthen people with disabilities, which is extremely commendable, and here today we wouldn't like that phone buzzing, buzzing nonstop, but at least we came to this situation that people with disabilities have dared to report violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43404	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. My colleague Cellic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43405	Here, thank you. A special provision has been added to Article 8 to determine that persons with disabilities and elderly persons who are victims of domestic violence enjoy special protection, and then, in addition to that, in Article 10, a form, i.e. a type of domestic violence, described as neglecting the needs of persons with disabilities or an elderly person who leads to her anxiety or insults her dignity. Our population is growing more and more old, thus becoming larger and larger number of people who have psycho-organic disorders, so the dementia of Alzheimer's dementia and unfortunately are not rare situations, it may sound terrible now, but it is especially during the annual holidays, as some unconscious citizens leave pets, as well as the likelihood of increased psychological neglect and abuse both a person with disabilities and a person with different dementias in those periods of the year are more pronounced, and the awareness, additional information, additional education, related to the problem experienced by persons with disabilities and an elderly, should certainly be welcomed by this difference between the first and second readings, I think it is very good that both persons with disabilities and the elderly are in the law. We hope that this application of articles will be as small as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43406	I thank you for your response to my distinguished colleague, Cellic. We move on to the next individual debate, distinguished colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43407	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the first Law on protection against domestic violence in the Croatian Parliament adopted in 2003. Until then, this problem has been thematicalized, and hence the violence sanctioned, we can say from this elevated historical point of view, completely inappropriate, to the Family Law. Since 2003, we have one continuity of positive shifts, as regards the procession, repression and protection against domestic violence, so already in 2009 after this six-year application of the first Law on Protection against Family Violence, there has been the adoption of the law, just that in 2009 already spoken and in debates, we have heard the shortcomings that have been withdrawn in the solutions so far, and they were mainly concerned that the perpetrators of violence had not been effectively processed and that there has been an inappropriate and therefore ineffective protection and prevention of domestic violence. In 2009, we have a positive new shift, and it concerns primarily the definition and determination of those who enter the family, which we have now partly brought down in this law that we are discussing, but we can understand the reasons why we did it. Furthermore, in 2009, there was a positive shift, as a new form of violence has been introduced today, which is economic violence. Violence of the unequivocal name of many forms and all these forms should be opposed, there is no ideological or any sort of inkling of general humanity, howling, reasons and arguments that should allow and be... according to various forms and forms of violence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This 2009 law, although good and positive, is subject to everything that is subject to what lies in the area of time, which is that, after a certain period of time in this case over an 8-year period, this law should also be amended and it should be made compatible with the demands it makes today. These requirements primarily stem from so far’s legal solutions, yet they have not put their weights on the victim. Why the victims? Because the victim was found outside of criminal legal protection and beyond, we would, precisely because of this orientation towards the victim, have to capture this victim with one civilizational optic to make it visible in that human sense. What does that mean? I think it's clear to everyone or if it's not clear, you should view the victim in the family as a bearer of humanity. The victim is the only human that exists in a family worth the mechanism of violence. The victim is the only thing that's found on the defender of humanity, and that's why this humanity needs to be protected. The victim is human, I'm saying that with all my anthropological knowledge and without any interference, I can say that the bully is not human. A bully is just a place where he should be human, and that's not human. We need to make and adopt, think about those legal solutions, which will also contribute to keeping this empty place of man occupied and to being that form of manifestive that will be expressed and humanity itself. This law helps the victim, and it helps to provide her with psychosocial protection all the way to legal institutional protection. What I said when I first read this law still stands. I believe that the family, we need, we can, and it is only appropriate to define, beyond all these ideological discussions as a community where one form of protection occurs, one form of spontaneity, freedom and distribution of positive emotions. Families who are unable to provide the distribution of positive emotions, freedom and protection are not families. We have to develop this one, I would say family anthology that we support everything that is positive and that it develops positively, and that all that is negative, and violence is certainly a reality that is negative, to develop mechanisms and legal mechanisms, social, medical, scientific, that we oppose violence in an adequate way. And the only appropriate way is to end violence. I support this law because I believe it is an end to this ontology of domestic violence. I support him because he's completely focused on the victim and the victim is not affected by one religious reluctance of suffering. We've done it so far, it's almost a sign of our civilization, that when we can't deal with something because of the lack or courage or social social, legal weakness, that we almost raise it to a religious or pseudo-religious dimension of suffering produced by man's will, there's no place in the family. Family, is a place, community, repeat, distribution of positive emotions, protection, spontaneity or freedom or not. If it's not because of violence, that violence needs to be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43408	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Vučetić, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Tomislav Jagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43409	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vučetic, therefore, I can agree with you to resolve, in fact, that we would at least try to solve this big problem in the work, which is happening in our families, and we cannot be sure that there should be a large dose of sensitivity and society, especially those that will implement this law. Besides having certain skills and competences, these people must have motive to solve this problem. I see this is what I think colleague Josic and counterpart Celic were talking about, I think it is the key to those who in some way diagnosed when there was violence. There's a lot of violence going on before, and then when it comes to the surface, we can say that a lot of things have happened. They say that the art of many lawyers is not in the sense that they will ask questions but what question they decide not to ask. So when the police come to where the violence took place they're dealing with a concrete event, in fact they can't even ask often what happened a few years ago. I think that's where Josic said, it's the only doctor who knows it probably based if it's a family doctor who knows what's been going on in that family for years, but then the question is who's going to protect this doctor if he comes out with that kind of application. So to solve this problem, and he really needs to be the sensitivity of the whole society and I agree with you, the family is in some way sacred, the last line of defense and humanity and our freedom and each of us will tell you if you ask him everyone will say away from my family, but the bullies have no right to say so and the system must interfere with these.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43410	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagaru, for the replica. The answer of colleague Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43411	I thank my colleague, Sagar, for this replica. The family is sacred, it may not need to be every time, because if we are already going from the assumption that the family is sacred then we are already going into a kind of civilizational almost preparation for concentrated domestic violence. The family is sacred only if it is not ruled by the power of violence. Family in itself is not sacred, family cannot observe from that level as it is found in textbooks that it is a fundamental cell of society. It is a fundamental cell of society, but if it is ruled by exactly what I have stated, it is positive emotions, protection, freedom, concern. If this is not in human relations, then neither human relations are sacred nor is the family sacred because it rests on the sacrifice mechanism. And I'm saying what's most powerful, you're talking about the problem of protecting health to the body of persecution, and that's where we read this civilizational optics of benevolence towards violence. We're trying to understand the causality of violence, trying to justify it. There is no excuse for violence, and we will not justify violence if we make it clear, the victim is human, the bully is not human. A violent man can yet become our treatment. Everything else is our civilizational delusions to give violence only new ruts and to come back again in concentrated form and some procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43412	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetić, for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43413	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Listening to all the exhibitions of all clubs and individual debates, I will try not to repeat myself for the sake of time, but what I also want the Secretary of State to hear several observations and what may have been said less in these discussions. Mr Vučetic reiterated the adoption of this law in 2003, and because of certain shortcomings that were not there, there were six years after the amendment and addition of the law in 2009 although there were two provisions in the Family Law concerning domestic violence. And again after 2009, because of criticism and the professional and legal public, we came to the Law on the Protection of Family Violence today. What I'm saying is that domestic violence is not often said even though this phenomenon is really evident and present in Croatian families. According to these available statistics, which you have actually stated here, the happiness of this domestic violence is the decline, although these statistical indicators that you cited from 2003 and 2009 are slightly fresher data from 2011 say that there were 17 thousand defendants for the violation of domestic violence and of which were found guilty by 14 thousand, and in 2015 there were 13 thousand defendants, and 11 thousand were found guilty. And this shows from this data that there is a drop in domestic violence which must certainly cheer us up, but it is still a matter of these positive figures of a serious, serious social problem. Some forms of violence come out of the sphere of offense and remain permanently hidden remain what the police say through those dark numbers, especially since domestic violence happens inside four walls and you do not see any witnesses there to testify, of course when it comes to children, people with disabilities and older people. Family violence is a factor where witnesses are rarely present and it is true and it is hard to prove. It's about vulnerable groups where society has to act, and that's why this law is good. Society with this problem of domestic violence must be sensitized in the protection of victims, and we will always do so when through campaigns, through education, school, church because the offended opinion in our society is that the victim is guilty because it happens to her. And we witnessed it, and it was actually talked about on our parliamentary committees, and we need to contain that opinion and we need to change it. Therefore, one continuous education and police and social workers, psychologists, all those, lawyers, all those involved in the chain should be performed. I think someone here was actually talking about that Article 4 of this law that actually the actions of the social care center staff and, as far as I know, through the rules of these houses and centres, the doctors of family medicine actually need to act in haste and act immediately. Victims of domestic violence, which is very important, find it difficult to report the perpetrator in fear of repetitive violence. And that's also clear to you, and you were actually saying that in your presentation. Because it often relativizes the perpetrators. That's also true. There is still fear, i.e. the stigmatization of the environment because it is also necessary to look at this dimension that no family violence is reported because of the stigmatization of the environment but also what a colleague said at one point and because of economic matters, in fact because of economic dependence on the perpetrator himself, which is also a common case. The worst thing that can happen is that the victim of domestic violence eventually actually accepts this pattern of abuse from the perpetrator himself as something normal, believing that this perpetrator will change as a rare case. Prevention is always a better and more cost-effective method and, if you want, more economically acceptable than self-repression. It is essential to work on the education of all those involved in the prevention and persecution system. It's not often that the police bring in both the victim and the perpetrator, and that's not good, that's really not good. And this is not in line with international law and here, on behalf of our club and other clubs, actually presented by the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Family Violence of 2011 and signed by the Republic of Croatia in 2013. Istanbul Convention. For Croatia, this convention is relevant because it is signed only now it is not actually ratified. Although in the text itself, when read by the Istanbul Convention itself, a number of objections from those nomotechnical, or content, ones can be made. Let us undoubtedly say that its importance in domestic violence is very important because it does not only approach the legal, criminal and criminal aspects but primarily from this preventive aspect by taking care of the assistance and protection of the victim of domestic violence. Of course, when it is ratified, Croatia would then have to provide these campaigns, education, women's shelters, especially for the child. And it is also foreseen that this Convention by the Council of Europe will be supervised by a special body called the Grevio Body. This convention should actually be freed from ideologies, and I would wrongly, although I would have objected to any cause and violence of consciousness under a group of so-called groups. gender equality because it's really about protecting women and children. What Mr Vučetic said, he mentioned in his debate, in fact, that violence is actually a multi-causal phenomenon that contains both social and sociological, legal and anthropological factor. And that's really true, and that's what we should stick to when we talk about this convention. So, for example, the problem of violence cannot only come to terms with birth conditions because it would be some sort of simulation of some simplification of all of this and lack of knowledge actually causes in society. So the convention has a number of weaknesses, it's true but it's an important legal instrument that provides a legal framework for preventing domestic violence. And for the end, I left the domestic violence to the children. And today I said that, children must not be objects, they must become subject to legal protection, and we must not interfere with that in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43414	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Babic for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43415	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear counterpart Babić, so here you have put emphasis on your exposure to prevention, so I would like to see here while my fellow secretary of state is as a proposing, on behalf of the promoter, that we return the same and emphasize the importance of this sociological phenomenon, which the promoter once again recognized and put in Articles 8 and 10 where the violence in the family added, and in particular stressed the neglect of the needs of persons with disabilities and especially persons of older age, meaning from 65 years of age and above. I must stress this, why it is important and why it is important to commend the promoter because he recognized this sociological phenomenon that should definitely be protected because we are in a society where we cannot ignore that we have, I will put under quotes "increasingly older children", meaning children who go from parents to anything older than they are. We have long-term unemployment, they're tied to their parents. We just came to a point where, definitely, I don't know how statistical it is now and I don't even know if we have statistics on it, but I think that definitely the increase in violence is precisely with children the path of parents, precisely because of this long-term co-existence and because of the difficult economic situation and the long-term economic situation, because of the long-term unemployment. And I just think that as hard as it is to report violence between girls, boyfriends, husbands, girls and vice versa, I think this is just as hard to follow and it's hard to even recognize in our society. And I think it's often happening to our members of the older population, and that it's just standing next to us and we don't recognize them. That is why it is important to stress and put special protection on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43416	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Bačić. Answer, dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43417	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you've noticed this well, and I may not have been particularly apostrophe in my debate. You're talking about kids, so for parents, it's a kid who's 30 and 40 and over. But when we talk about children, we talk about underage children especially their protection. And I'm sure this is a sociological phenomenon. Of course, he is important because of the economic situation in our country, but there is something that may be related, where parents are very attached to their children and they stay with him longer and then there is such violence against older people. There's a statistical record. I said it's hard to talk about domestic violence within four walls, because there are actually a lot of things left undiscovered, and that's what the police actually say as dark figures in their reports and actually premises what that number would be and actually talks about one indicative number. But it's a good thing you remembered this when we talked about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43418	I thank my colleague Anti Babic for his reply. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Juro Martinovic, final word on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, honourable MPs here so I could say on behalf of the promoter this mildness that I feel in the House today is a sign that this law has been well balanced and that it has in some way affected expectations that the general public so as to represent you as a representative that you are ultimately passing the law, but I would say free and professional public. So, if that were the case, I would point out at this point that the credit for it belongs to both the promoter and the professional services of the ministry but especially to you, your criticisms in first reading, the parliamentary committees that have dealt with this at a high level of expertise. But individually, I would say to the lawyers, too, are some parliamentary advocates who have pointed out some things that we have been very happy to accept. And I hope that we have a final version of the law that is acceptable and that will in some ways ease, that is to say, this one problem topic. So now we're through this law even though it's not a substance that's been unregulated. It was regulated before the first law was passed. It was regulated through other laws, through a violation, through a criminal. It was subsequently regulated by a special law. We have now resorted again to making a whole law, but it doesn't really change much. We've established I'd say a better quality social standard that's unacceptable in this social segment. After that, we set appropriate sanctions for this unacceptable social behavior. We have established clear bodies that will deal with this law and implement it and something that is new we have established a clear monitoring through a committee that will monitor the work of all bodies and will follow it in a way that will transfer this body to the ministry as I would say more professionally in the legal sense of the ministry to follow through the reports of all those who carry out these procedures and to sort of report to the public and intervene where there is a need to make this regulation better, to make the tools for law enforcement better for the general good, therefore also to protect those who are protected by this law. As you can see, we've expanded that so-called. The criminal sphere and we have introduced new categories according to European practice. We especially protect older people. There were some dilemmas about whether it would be a person of 70 or 65. In accordance with some view of the Croatian public, we have found that it is 65 years and, of course, we are particularly protecting disabled people, which is a newspaper in this law. Of course, matter is such that we must never say that we have done everything. That's the one thing that's going on. We will have to improve it, but I think we have a completely modern law in line with similar solutions in the EU, in the family of the countries we belong to, and now it is a matter of the education of the body that one of the parliamentary representatives spoke very well of. So, when they get this framework, when they get the tools, then the bodies that are going to carry out this procedure must make one further effort to do it in a quality way to protect victims of violence. I have to say briefly that we have tried to fully respect all the remarks we have received by not looking at which sides politically they come from the parliamentary committees. And I think we've put a lot of work into the final bill and we're really going to achieve one legal harmonisation in this law. I must say that when we didn't do this, you must understand that when we are building a law, we must have in mind a full legal pyramid, a complete legal system, and some harmonisation of every law individually and any intervention in the law that has already been made can be something that cannot fit into that harmony. Of course, it is always the most important goal we want to achieve, and in this case it is to protect sensitive structures that are protected by this law. So we had a colleague of the Bulls who mentioned alcoholism as a cause of very often this violence, but of course we deal with the causes through the laws. The legislator in this case what in such cases. Of course, there is a measure, there is a measure of treatment, which Colic explained, I would say quality and professionally. In any case, when this law is put forward by the authorities before which the proceedings are conducted, the Court must conclude that the measure would be useful, in order to prevent further rectivism, return to violence, and this is done and that is in some way a contribution to the treatment of the cause. This general social situation simply, it is not dealt with by law. My colleague Turic, she spoke of what we accepted, which we did not accept, so we did everything to accept what we considered legally logical and allowed not to bring down that one harmonisation and the system of law. So it was about doctors and they were really, with full respect we were considering all their ideas. The first idea was that they were not obliged to report at all, because it's simply unacceptable, it exists for years, they have to report every injury, every trauma to the police, but without this law, since it's a minor trauma, so mistreated. They also because of the sensitivity of the population that protects have to report it, we've respected their idea and we've minimised the impediment, although I think all those who follow the judiciary in the state, you who follow the social scene, you know, that such processes are almost gone. It's a rare situation in which doctors or medical staff would have kept it quiet if the matter hadn't been revealed. It will be revealed in one way or another, so there are no such processes, but we have appreciated that we did not go, so we have dropped to the maximum possible penalty for doctors who would not report the violence they found out about by doing their job. All these other requirements I would say are outside of this legislative framework procedure, which is to provide doctors with adequate protection at work, that's something that is totally acceptable to us too, but I don't think it can get into the matter of this law. So there was talk whether this law solves the causes, of course, the legislator here can't solve the causes of violence when, as he solves in a stable manner and the causes, you know that every punishment, every sanction has its objectives, so the criminal sanctions that are prescribed here, they have 2 key objectives, and that's so on. Special and general prevention. Specially, the perpetrator concludes that he is no longer worth making such insubordination social and that he no longer does so, and the general, that others understand through his sanctions, that society also strongly condemns such social deviations and that he will come under the influence of laws and penalties. This is what the legislative framework gives, but solve always, so completely cleanse society of those who tend to commit violations, we will never succeed, but it is an eternal thesis. It was about statistics, I don't think we want to talk about it, because it's just statistics and nothing more, and it can be turned around in more ways, but the facts are like that, that lately there's something reduced family violence, at least statistically, we'd like it to be real, and it's expected that this law will contribute to family violence being less because of the fact that we've completely sharpened the tools that we've given to the authorities of persecution. We hope that they will benefit, and we all as a social community, so here we have done it through a legislative initiative, you will hopefully, adopt this law, and you are giving a legislative framework, and then the other bodies that need to implement these laws, we hope to make a contribution, in order for society, that social anomaly, to the lowest, I would say an acceptable level, as it is in all civilized societies. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43420	I would like to thank Mr. Yuri Martinovic, the esteemed Secretary of State. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I conclude the debate, thank the Secretary of State Mr. Jur Martinovic and his associate, Mr. Dinko Kovacevic, for the explanation of this agenda point, we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43421	Final proposal of the Law on protection against domestic violence, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 67. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of HNS Representatives Liberal Democrats. I would like to ask the proposing's representative to show up on the amendments submitted, here is Secretary of State Juro Martinovic. First we're going with the amendments to the Legislative Committee, and there are six of them, so let's get on with it. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43422	So Amendment number one is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43423	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43424	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43425	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43426	So the proposer considered that of the three parts proposed in the amendment, we accepted only paragraph 3 and the first two paragraphs were not accepted. We believe that this law would not make it more functional and beneficial to the purpose set out in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43427	I'm asking on behalf of the committee president.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43428	For reasons given, we will give up this first part of the government that has not accepted the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43429	Thank you. Moving to Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43430	Amendment number three is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43431	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43432	It is accepted and becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43433	Okay, you said it. Amendment number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43434	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43435	It also becomes an integral part of the law. And Amendment number six.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43436	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43437	And he becomes an integral part of the law. We are now moving on to the amendment of the HNS Representatives' Club of Liberal Democrats. Amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43438	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43439	And that amendment becomes part of the law. I thank Secretary of State Yuri Martinovic. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on protection against domestic violence, please let us vote. I find that the proposal has been passed by a majority vote of 120 for and 3 abstentions, i.e. that most votes have been passed along with the amendments adopted. I thank the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43440	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2016 The applicant is the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, based on Article 7. Law on Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the report at the session. The government also delivered an opinion. I call upon the distinguished academic Mr. Paul Rudan, Secretary-General of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts to explain the report to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43441	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Republic of Croatia. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, you've received all the Croatian Academy's summer paper, it's 120 books of yearbooks, because the Academy is required and there's a hundred and 20 years of press release which lists not all of the activities that we've done, but this is a list of activities that the members of the Academy have done in the past 2016. As you know in tradition is the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, that temple of the Croatian people and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to promote the results of its scientific and artistic work, since these are the main tasks set out in Article 3 of the Law on the Croatian Academy and that the Academy encourages and organises scientific work and advocates the application of the results achieved, develops artistic and cultural activities and takes care of Croatian cultural heritage and its affirmation in the world, then publishes the results of scientific research and artistic creation, and gives suggestions and opinions to improve science and art in areas that are of particular importance to the Republic. HAZU worked in 9 classes in 25 scientific and research units in Zagreb and outside Zagreb from Vukovar, Osijek, Vinkovac, Požega, Bjelovar, Križevci, Varazdin, Rijeka, Pula, Zadar, Split, Trsten in Dubrovnik and Cavtat, then worked in 7 museum-gallery units in Strossmayer's Gallery of old masters, Gliptotecs, Croatian Museum of Architecture, the Office of Graphics and Croatian Museums of Medicine and Pharmacy in Zagreb, then in the Memorial collection of Maximilian Vanka in Korčula and in the Museum and Collections of Baltazar Bogisic in Cavtat and then in more than 19 scientific councils, 22 committees and in the library, archive and arboretum as mentioned in Tristen. On 25 October 2016, a contract was also signed on the establishment of the Institute for Scientific Research in Đakov, and at the meeting of the Bureau on 16 November 2016, academician Franjo Šanjek was proposed as head of the office. Ladies and gentlemen, during 2016 there were 429 events in HAZU, 88 sessions of academic classes, 12 assembly sessions, 26 ceremony sessions, awards and concerts, 42 sessions of scientific councils, 107 scientific meetings, symposiums and round tables, 28 lectures, 34 visits of delegations and events from interinstitutional and international cooperation, 54 presentations of books, presentations, programs, press conferences and film screenings, 31 exhibitions in academic museum and galerical units, and unfortunately 7 memorials of our deceased members. I must say that all relevant topics in society, law, economy, agriculture, environment, energy, history, language, transport, health, geology, technology, education, anthropology, climateology, ornithology, crystallography, etc. have been processed. and certain top artistic events in the field of painting, sculpture, music, architecture and literature. The maintenance of round tables within the cycle of modernisation of rights, topics of legal protection of water, sea and space, protection of intellectual property rights and home rights were discussed. In last year, the Croatian Academy also adopted its strategic development plan by 2020 and made clear its statement on the UN tribunal's release ruling, Vojislav Seselj. I must admit that various meetings and conferences were held on the EU and Brexit crisis, for the 26th time the Symposium of breast disease, after 19th on laterosclerosis, 43 years in a row the School of Anthropology, continued intensive co-operation with the University of Zagreb, and was manifested in a series of stands on innovation and technology transfer, the promotion of economic development of Croatia, etc. I also have to admit that it was very well accepted and that we were working through the Committee for the Marking of the 450th anniversary of the Siget battle, then the annual academy and international scientific gatherings were held, marked the 200th anniversary of the birth of Ivan Kukuljević Sakcinski and Bogoslav Šulek, the 120th anniversary of the birth of Jako Gotovina, the 110th anniversary of the birth of Boris Papandopu, the 100th anniversary of the birth of the academics Hrvoja Pozar and Mate Sujic and the 100th anniversary of the birth of the beautiful book as I pointed out on the Committee "The Story of the Age". The story from ancient times written by the first female member of HAZU academic Ivana Brlic Mažuranić. I must admit that during Book Night and Museum Night and the open door of the HAZU Academy, more than 10,000 visitors visited. The Parliament also accepted the 2015 Academy Work Report at the end of last year. What to say that last year we were abandoned by academics Cvetnić, Mardesic, Novak, Klobučar, Petraka, Nives Kavurić Kultović, Davor Krapac, Ante Stamac, Branko Leskovar, Ante Sekulić, Egon Matijević, Nenad Bicanić, Rudolf..., Tomislav Neralić and the respected Mrs Olga Sarc Lado and Ljerka Šnifer Premec. Many of the members of the academy last year also received a series of awards for life work and for their work, became members of the honorary individual associations or were elected to some other academy, so I have to mention the names of academics Pavlicicic, Keser, Jerolimov, Bashic, Mira Gavran, Paraća, Senkera, Novaković, Raukara, Feletar, Vretenar, Pečaric, Tomić, Dubravka Oraić, Tolic, Boruek, Matanović, Stjepana Tomaš, Velimir... the vice president of the Academy received recognition as a member of the Rotary Club Zagreb, and Academy member Željko Reiner was elected last year as vice president of the Croatian Assembly. I'm not going to burden you with a lot of problems that are highlighted here because each of these 429 events. It's not one man, one event. These are the tens and hundreds of people involved in these events. Therefore, really the Croatian Academy proved itself to be a temple of culture, science and art. I must tell you gentlemen and ladies that on December 15th, we also had an assembly in which a financial report was accepted for the past year and plans of the Croatian Academy's work for 2017. What is very interesting and significant in our academy is that, through 19 scientific councils of the Academy, many vital areas for our homeland have been handled. These are the Scientific Council for Crystalography, the Scientific Council for Remote Research, the Scientific Council for Oil and Gas, the Scientific Council for Transport, the Scientific Council for Maritime Affairs, the Scientific Council for Energy, the Scientific Council for Agriculture and Forestry, the Scientific Council for Economic Research and the Croatian Economy. Then the Scientific Council for Natural and Scientific Research of the Adriatic Sea, for technological development, the Scientific Council for Peace and Human Rights, the Council for State Administration and Justice and the Government of Law, then for Tourism, the Council for Civil Engineering, Reconstruction and Development, the Scientific Council for Nature Protection, the Council for Anthropology Research, the Research Infrastructure of Croatia, the Scientific Council for Theatre, Film and Radio and Television and the Newest Scientific Council for Education and Education. I also have to tell you that the academy was extremely active in terms of international cooperation. We are members of many world associations of the Academy and academia Milena Wic Fucks is one of our leading representatives in many of these very important... I must commend myself with one fact and it is that the president of the Academy Mr. Zvonko Kusic and my smallness at the invitation of the French Academy of Science which celebrated the 350th anniversary of its existence, we were staying in Paris at the invitation and we signed the Common State on the Science Declaration... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It clearly shows what science is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the construction of scientific knowledge is the source of many advances in mankind over the last centuries. And I'm glad I was here listening to what a colleague from a very interesting one of the discourses said and mentioned anthropology. I'm glad it's Vučetić, I'm sure he's a descendant or at least a relative of that magnificent Vučetić who, at the beginning of the century, in his book, the Dactyloscope of the Compadas, made it clear for the first time how we can use fingerprints in forensics. But one of the people who rightly called homophobia, a dilettante, and that was... Galton, who was thought to have been the first in that and Vučetic was far, far, far more precise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Galton said he couldn't appreciate the quality of that book because he doesn't understand Spanish. So it's Vučetic who was the best in the world in dactyloscopy. Then I have to tell you a few more things, which is that the academy in the whole series of its activities was extremely and significant in the publishing activity. In 2016 102 volumes of different editions were given, 21 books, 16 chambers of papers, 34 journals of 13 catalogues of exhibitions, 9 monuments of deceased academics, 2 books of abstracts, 2 partitions and one dictionary and a cartoon journal. The Academy published 79 volumes on its own and another 23 volumes as a co-issuer. The support of the Croatian Academy Foundation has also published 129 publications, including 13 academic editions. Also, last year we started printing HAZU messengers that come out twice a year and where exactly you can see given the dynamics of doing what all the academy does and what it does and what it is about it. So members of the academy or with the help of the academy have published 273 publications in the past year. I must admit that one of these publications is extremely important and it is a publication called Croatian Natural Resources, Protection and Responsible Development of Academy Directors Najhart and Mirko Zelic and this book is a pride to this country and pride to our academy and we have shared it with many other world academics to see how and what should be shown in terms of the protection of national interest. I must also say that the Croatian Academy Foundation, which is the leaders of Neidhardt and Mrs Stincl, has supported a total of 225 projects of which 102 so far unpublished bodies have been published from the fields of science and art, 60 projects for organised scientific gatherings, 56 projects for the development of scientific and artistic work and 7 other projects. She also shared two student scholarships, i.e. the Foundation of our Academy and one poetry award from the Dragutin Tadjanović Fund. Financial support was also given to the best high school students in Imotsko from the funds of Mr. Stipan Bilić Prcic's donors. And the first time was awarded a literary award by Stipan Bilić Prcic. My colleagues and ladies and gentlemen, I would no longer burden you with all this detail because everything here is very detailed. I would just like to tell you that in the first three months of 2016 we have adopted a temporary financial plan, then we have adopted a financial plan for 2016 with projections for 2017 and 2018, and at the end of the year when we have reduced our finances for 2016, which has been accepted by the Assembly of our Academy, I must inform you about it. Final account according to pattern... The Academy's revenues were 63 million 487 thousand 375 kuna and 23 June, expenditures were 65 million 759 thousand 66 kuna and 40 June, hence the lack of current income over expenditures, was 2 million 271 thousand 691 kuna and 17 June. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This deficit has been reduced by a million and 380 thousand 562 kuna and 41 limes, as the funds transferred to the 2016 financial plan so that we have de facto finished with minus 891 thousand 128 kuna and 76 June, but we have settled this from accumulated funds and therefore there are no outstanding liabilities or outstanding liabilities for 2016 and the final account is zero. Finally, I would just like to inform you that our temple of the culture of the Croatian people and of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia of art, art and creation, led by academics Kusic and this administration of the Academy, has been responsible, consciously, seriously and responsibly, to the task given to her by the Croatian Parliament in 1861 when an institution was founded in this House on the proposal of Bishop Strossmayer called Academia Scientiarum et Asrtium Slavorum Meridionalium. So in last 2016, we had 429 events plus 273 publications. So, I have to admit, not a few in a week, but a few a day. The work of the Academy is detailed in the book of Letopis, and all the finances are clearly shown, financial operations on the website. By completing this report, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it my duty to thank on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Presidency and the Administration of the Croatian Academy, all members, especially class secretary, scientific and museum-gallery leaders, presidents of scientific councils and committees, all members of the Academy, all officials and employees and tenants in the units and professional services in Zagreb and outside Zagreb, all scientists, and scientific money, at the pawnage and activities, because we have made it possible to perform excellently many and diverse tasks clearly shown in this report, and in detail in the Yearbook. I would once again like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that under the leadership of academics Kusic and last year, the academy, as I like to say, was able to shout with the pure flame of intellectual and moral conscience. I ask you nicely to accept the 2016 Croatian Academy of Science and Arts report and the Financial Business Report and the Final Account of our Academy for 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43442	Thank you very much, Mr. Rudan. We have three replicas, you can answer them, each replica, or all three together, or at the end of the presentation, you decide. The first replica, Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear academic Rudan, I now congratulate you on the report you have submitted to us, I will speak later on behalf of the club. But I have to ask you one question precisely for the protection of everything you and everyone in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts have done because several citizens have asked me about a vague situation, because of an association that is very perfiduous in fact misusing everything you do. This association is called the Croatian Academy of Science, Art in Diaspora, HAZUD. I would like to say to the far right, a free prostitute organisation that makes one confusion to the Croatian public who is not sufficiently aware of what the HAZU is doing and thinks that this HAZUD is some part of the HAZU in the diaspora. Among other things, they recently counter-constitutionally tried to set up one record in Otočac, a pro-prostitute board and thus deny all that Croatia is today. Did the academy ever show up about this quasa association, or do you think they're so marginal that they don't deserve your attention at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43444	Thank you, too. Mr. Rudan, do you want an answer right away or later? Okay. [[Intruder Rudan: So I'd like to meet you later.]] Second replica, Mr. Sinisha Varga. Third replica, Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43445	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Rudan, how do you view UNESCO's opinion that Plitvice Lakes are very badly lorded by property, and that excessive construction endangers only world heritage and that it will be proposed at UNESCO Central to put Plitvice Lakes on the list of endangered heritage? I wonder if the members of the academy are familiar with this opinion, whether you are also familiar with the protest that began on 21 June in front of Plitvica Sela, so the new practically settlements in that area, which comes to the great waterfall itself and the large lakes themselves, are close to them, and that because of that construction, it is threatened that the water supply in Plitvice Lakes is so that at the end of the lakes reflects what they are, because the presence of people is clearly jeopardizing so that there is only a clear crystal water that allows, therefore, the survival of micro-organisms so-called. The sedars. I believe that this, therefore, appeal from UNESCO is very important and that the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts should be made manifest. So is it possible that one of our national parks that is therefore also a world heritage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43446	Thank you, too. You want to answer now or at the end of the debate? Okay. So one committee discussed this report by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would anyone like to take a word for the board? No, I don't. Okay. I'm opening a debate. The first is Marko Vučetic, the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, Mr. Vucetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43447	Thank you. This Report of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is an opportunity for an apparent political all-power to stand before the results of the mentality and the strength of the artistic imagination. Every man if he's a man he's already brought into one tension between his personal self and his social self. This tension is increased if the self-mimicry of the social self is so much that it is left without the rest, or if the whole of one’s individual existence is brought to a level that acts only in the public without the rest. I am telling you this because this report is brought before this House, and in the House, there are political beings who are beings of the public and are thus subject to their whole existence being completely reduced to this social self and that I personally be without the rest. But let's get away from this social or political pervading of human beings and engage in the study and this public mind presented to us by this report. This public mind of our academy is a mind that does not depersonalize. He does not deindividualize, it is a mind that does not share, it is a mind that addresses every man, every existential, every being who lives its existence in this cosmos thanks to such institutions now primarily think of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. This existential truth is gaining new perspectives and these perspectives are artificial, and the perspectives are artistic and cultural. Now it comes to my mind that Nietzsche has said that all culture has evolved beyond politics, that it is culturally created as anti-political and anti-political. By not wanting to enter into such discussions, I can thank the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and our academics for being the creatures that have not been monumentalized. A man often at the level of anthropology that is extremely well-known to the academic Rudan he is entering the situation and the danger of being prematurely monumentized. These visions, the forms of premature monumentization we find in our discussions. Someone was monumentalized in the 1990s, someone in the '70s, someone in two thousand years, and now you're just walking between these beings who revive their speech in the 1990s, '70s or two thousandths. No progress. Thanks to institutions such as the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts we have the opportunity to see what beings of progress look like. Let me thank the academic Rudan in this place for deciding to be a being that will be eternally young in our world, because he thanks to his activities old in the future. It is these very beings, therefore, that they have decided to progress, for the future of this world, that this cosmos has a chance to live, it has a chance to be different, it has a chance to be different, thanks to their one transtemoraral and universal discourse to realize that human something is significant, that human and fundamental human activity is to humanize, to cultivate, to open spaces and not to enter divisions. Our Croatian Academy of Science and Arts achieved this model and its commitment to trans-Temporal and universal truths in 2016 through its committees, institutes, archives, museum and gallery units. She also settled in Djakov with her scientific mind. So our academy took part in 429 events and these are all events, events that open up the perspective of the future to us. Because academics, they realize what all art scientists do or reconstruct the truth, the truth that would have been forgotten without them, the one that happened and would have fallen into oblivion, and the important thing is, it's human because it cultivates, because it's progressive. Without them, she wouldn't be available to us. Furthermore, thanks to them they just don't reconstruct, they also construct. Because many things without their mind and without their imagination would not present to us today, would not be present to us. Therefore, on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists, I can only support this report, thank the academics for all the activities they have taken on all the activities they are taking and I believe that this report is not a report that we need to discuss, but that this report is the report of the future world in which we can live. But if we do what our academy does and what our academics do, because the future world is a world in which we will have to demitize many of our myths, many of our lownesses in which we live today and many of our lows that lead us today as the only motto of our lives. The Academy, it supports and is part of that progressive, quiet, not mass force, but the force that offers the future and therefore I will not trouble this report because as a man I cannot do, and the academics and our academy can only thank and express their deep gratitude and deep existential consent to everything they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43448	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj wants to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43449	Thank you very much. My colleague Vučetić, most of your speech, you mentioned progressiveness, advancedness, i.e. The merits of our academic community. You're telling me that they should be given in their actions, what a colleague of Bunjac just asked, on a daily basis, to refer problems to the public, and for example. What are now Plitvice Lakes or other problems that occur in society, that should give attitudes and concrete public, including us, who make decisions, direct us publicly and loudly about problems in society, point to consequences, i.e. what these causes are going to happen in society and that have led to all aspects of social, economic, and environmental impacts, that they should be louder daily, more clearly addressed to the public, and especially to academic and educated persons, and especially associations and people who deal with this on a daily basis. They measured their whole lives towards the future, according to the better and the truth, they should give the public a stronger voice to form a warning about the direction of all questions in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43450	I didn't understand, do you want to answer... You're right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43451	I thank my fellow Bull for this replica, but the answer is very simple. I really don't hear a louder and more effective and more principled voice in today's world in today's Croatia than the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. It provides principles, it talks on the basis of principles and on concrete problems. For example, when it comes to the already mentioned verdict of the liberating Vojislav Seselj, or when it comes to the problem of the Bologna process in higher education or curricula reform when it comes to primary and secondary education. The Academy is not a prisoner of that historic event, every event is historic that has already taken place today. It offers principles and I again, from this place, without some level to highlight the spiritual relation to the academy or academic Rudan, although we almost have this family relationship, but this is about the academy really acting, warning and speaking. But like I said, it's a speech of the future, it's a speech that many can't hear. It's a world that's yet to be built and it's being built. And thanks to your replica, I can thank the academy and academic Rudan for what they're doing right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43452	Thank you very much. In front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43453	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary-General of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, distinguished academic Rudan, respected colleagues and colleagues, here we have a report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2016. The report discussed and unanimously accepted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture in its home office. And if we look closely at the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, then we will see in Article 3 of the same law that the main tasks of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts are laid down in Article 3 of the Law, including the promotion and organisation of scientific work and the pawnship for their application, the development of artistic and cultural activities and the care of Croatian cultural heritage and its affirmation in the world, the publication of the results of scientific research and artistic creation and, of course, the giving of proposals and opinions for the improvement of science and art in areas that are of particular importance to the Republic. And in this sense, I join the debates of all previous speakers who spoke naturally about the contribution and importance of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts at those times when they really speak competently about all the current social problems facing Croatian society today. Among other Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in the Croatian Assembly, as you have already had the opportunity to hear from the distinguished academic Rudan, delivered in the summary form, but also in full form on the printed pages of the Croatian Academy's annual book 120, which provides detailed insight into the numerous activities that the Academy has carried out in the past 2016 and just by analysis of the activities shown in the report, it is evident that during 2016 the Academy worked in 9 classes, 7 museum gallery units, 19 scientific councils, 22 committees and 25 scientific research units, 12 of which are in Zagreb, while 13 outside of Zagreb and that in Bjelovar, Križevci, Osijek, Split, Varazdin, Vinkovci, Vukovar and Zadar, and two of them in Dubrovnik and Rijeka, with one of them in Bjelovar, Križevci, Osijek, Osijek, Split, Varazdin, Varazdin, Vinkovci, Vukovar and the first year of the first year are held in 2016. I am pleased that in Djakov it was precisely because the Djakova-Srijem Bishop Strossmayer launched an initiative in 1860 to establish such a high institution in our premises and the same bishop Strossmayer in 1861 raises the question of establishing an academy right here, right here in the Croatian Parliament. And if and which area and what place did it deserve to have one of the institutes of the Academy, it is certainly Djakovo, and I am particularly looking forward to it. The report also shows that on 31 December 2016 the HAZU had 143 regular members, 129 letter members and 89 members of the co-workers, and the analysis of the activities shown in the report shows that during 2016 there were a total of 429 events, of which 88 sessions of academic classes, 12 assembly sessions, 26 ceremony sessions, awards or concerts, 42 meetings of scientific councils, 107 scientific meetings, symposiums, round tables and similar events, 28 lectures and 34 visits from various delegations and events between institutional and international cooperation. Equally 54 presentations of books, presentations, programs and conferences for journalists as well as screening of films and 31 exhibitions in academia museum-gallery units. And in the same way over the past year, all nine academic classes have maintained and maintained the intensity of all their activities including scientific and research and publishing activities and, of course, the Academy has actively participated in all forms of international cooperation, especially in the work of roof international scientific organisations. What may be interesting is the fact that museum-gallery units of the Academy, so I mean at Gliptothek, Cabinet Graphics, Croatian Museum of Architecture, Strossmayer's gallery of old masters during 2016 have held numerous exhibitions, it has also actively acted on the Office for Architecture and Urbanism with the archives for Fine Arts, and during this past period the Croatian Museum of Medicine and Pharmacy began. So these are just some of the activities that I've listed here within the time we have available. It may only be noted that a total of 102 titles of new academic editions and 139 titles in 417 publications published with the support of the Academy Foundation have been catalogued in addition to regular library activities related to users and the preservation and renovation and analysis of library buildings over the past year. Therefore, it is not at all questionable that the HDZ Representatives Club will, of course, support the report on the work of the HAZU in 2016 and of course I join all previous speakers who praised the work of the HAZU in the past year, of course on their own behalf and on behalf of all HDZ representatives, the HZD club. I give HAZU thanks for competently talking about the current social problems that occur in Croatian society and also for promoting the rich heritage that Croatia has both in the country and in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43454	Thank you very much. In front of the SDP club, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43455	Thank you, Vice President. Dear academics Rudan, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the SDP club will support this report. I think this is the 10th jubilee report I've read since 2007 when I was a parliamentary representative in the opposition SDP, so I'm going to repeat today what I often say because I think it's worth repeating. HAZU as a conscience of Croatian society, as a temple of culture of science and art just as Strossmayer said it encourages and organises scientific work, advocates the application of the results achieved, develops artistic and cultural activities and takes care of Croatian cultural heritage and its affirmation in the world, publishes the results of scientific research and artistic creation and provides suggestions and opinions to improve science and art in areas of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia. From the short report we received as well as 120. Letopisa with 1235 pages from what the distinguished academic Rudan said earlier today, as well as my predecessors here, Vučetic and counterpart Bedeković, it is clear that HAZU fulfilled all its tasks that it had set before it, but which part of which was certainly influenced by the parliamentary debate on the work of the academy last year. Here's a good example, we're discussing today's 2016 Report on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, for example. We still haven't discussed the report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2015 and I believe it would be very important that we discussed this report long before it comes to the agenda. This report, which we are considering today, makes it clear that a positive trend has been continued under the direction of the President of the Academy of Academics Kusic, Secretary-General of the Academy of Rudan and their closest associates from the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. I don't think there's any need to repeat in detail now and everything that's written in the materials that we've received, in what academics Rudan and colleagues and colleagues have previously said. I will just point out once again that during 2016 429 events were held in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and 273 different titles were printed in the printing activity, which totals 792 activities, so more than two days a year, which I doubt many different associations, the academy can raise. Therefore, I think we can all agree that we should commend the work of the Academy, of all people gathered around the Academy, of all what they do and of a positive assessment of the efforts of the Academy to continuously promote the scientific, economic and cultural progress of the Republic of Croatia. What of all the activities, every year I say this, I will repeat these because it is worth repeating and these are the days of open doors of the Academy, something that is certainly due to the current leadership of the Academy, academics Kusic and his right hands, Secretary General Rudan and all the other members of the Academy. Because, I say, I have been following the work of the Academy more than before 2007 and one of the frequent remarks that was related to the work of the Academy that was over-closed and that the public rarely when you say the Croatian Academy only sees that beautiful building and thinks it is. Therefore, thanks to the current leadership of the Croatian Academy of Arts, it is clear that HAZU is not only a beautiful building, but it is made up of numerous contents that occur throughout Croatia. And if we say that the night of the museum and the night of the book has been visited by more than 10,000 citizens, then it is clear how much it means in promoting education, knowledge and science. I speak on behalf of the club but one personal note of this, since I am a doctor and my wife's pharmacy is especially pleased with the newly established museum of medicine and pharmacies and I hope that she will be visited as much as possible. What I want to further praise is the work of all 9 of the Academy's institutions and I will take advantage of the opportunity to come from Rijeka and once again highlight the exceptional activity of the Institute for Transplant and Clinical Medicine and Molecular Medicine in Rijeka under the leadership of the Academy of Rukavina which does everything that the Academy actually needs to do. So, almost once a month, it brings together students, doctors, businessmen of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County where they discuss some important issues concerning this area of medicine, as well as all other important social topics not only for Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County, but also for the whole of Croatia. As the 2016 report states, the Institute is designed as a virtual centre, a centre for gathering top scientific and professional potential and in order to reflect and design the development of the Rijeka medical community. A great message for all those who are trying to make their contribution to the development of Croatian society in all segments. In 2016, as many as 6 symposiums were held at the Rijeka Institute, 3 scientific stands, one round table, two books were printed, but what should be particularly highlighted without permanent employees in just 20% of the administrative secretary's time. As my colleague Bedeković said, I am particularly pleased with the new activities of the Croatian Academy in Đakov through the Institute for Scientific Art in Vinkovci, through the Centre for Scientific Work, because this certainly represents the revitalisation of Slavonia which Slavonia is desperately needed. I think we all have to agree that we should give recognition to the Academy and its leadership and that she hosted the Oscar Knowledge Award to the students of primary and secondary schools because it must have meant a lot to them, that this award for excellence was received precisely in the Academy as well as a scholarship for women in science and recognition and the Ministry of Environmental Protection Award for achievement in environmental protection and, of course, by which our academy especially rises, and that is all it does to improve the position of the Roma community and thus to celebrate the international day of Roma language. Of course, we often point out that our science does not have enough to do with the economy, so we should also praise the award of donations and scholarships to the Adris Foundation that were held in the premises of the Croatian Academy. Congratulations also on the successful international activity and especially our academic Rudan in choosing the president of the euro-Mediterranean academic network. Congratulations, academic. Before the end, in order not to be all wonderful, the report states that members of the Croatian Academy of Arts actively participated in the debate on the proposed curricula reform and, with a view to this, the Scientific Council for Education and Education was established. I must say that both personally and as a club, we believe that the analyses and discussions on this topic were not constructive, were not at the level of the overall responsibility of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. And we believe that more members came, more from the prism of personal vanity than constructive scientific contributions in one of the most important topics in which, colleagues and colleagues, to repeat it once more and to remember the cornerstone of the foundation set exactly by HAZU because guidelines for the strategy of education, science and technology were made under the leadership of academics and by the president of the Academy, Mr Kusic. What should be pointed out is that the Academy has shown both responsibility and strategic thinking since it adopted its strategic document Development Plan by 2020 in 2016. I want them to grow even more strongly in the development of everything they've done so far. When it comes to the financial report, only one sentence, the academics held responsible for the good lord's work, the means they received. In 2015, insufficient funds amounted to 1800 kuna, this year 800 thousand kuna, so they reduced the minus that was compensated by funds from previous years. Therefore, as the distinguished academic Rudan said, the academy is the flame of moral intellectual conscience, so let that flame be even stronger in years ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43456	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43457	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Radin. A colleague of Jovanovic, in fact, would like to highlight two things in what you said. I absolutely agree with what you've been saying, but two things that I feel that we should especially point out and point out. HAZU operates through the Scientific Institute in Osijek, very successfully, led by academic Tuck, I would absolutely praise their work, their plot, especially to the preservation of the historical heritage of that end but also to each other, and I think that with the opening in Đakov, as my colleague said before, we have made and returned in fact one great debt, which is to our greatest medal, also the initiator of the establishment of the HAZU, Bishop Strossmayer, who is undeniably outstanding historical, political, scientific, whatever you want, personality in Croatian history, absolutely. I believe and hope that this office will just work on studying his heritage, and therefore allow me to usurp this little and private pay phone, to say that I am extremely glad that my former professor, academician Shanjek, is appointed a leader who is indisputably one of the greatest experts in terms of auxiliary historical sciences, but who has very great knowledge of Bishop Strossmayer. The second part you justifiably said was the days of the open door. The days of open doors record outstanding results, here I will re-reference myself right in Osijek, as our students, our students, the interested public, the public can now get acquainted with all the activities that the Academy conducts and at the level of the Scientific Institute in Osijek. So I think it's an absolute direction to work, and absolutely praise and support to keep it going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43458	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43459	Thank you. Kola Hajduković, so to what you have said, I will only add that the Academy, through its work, of branches throughout Croatia, shows the direction that strategically needs to be considered about the development of Croatia, which is decentralisation. So decentralisation, not only in the economy and decision-making, but also in science, but also in the HAZU through its district departments now and in Djakov and Vinkovci, shows exactly that, and it is particularly important that and symbolically through the thanks of Stossmayer, it is in Djakov and Vinkovci, but out of God's care for Slavonia which it shows in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43460	Thank you very much. In front of the Club of Independent Representatives and HSU, Mrs. Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43461	Thank you very much, Vice President. That's a nice greeting, Professor Rudan. Nice greeting from an esteemed colleague and colleague. We have a report on HAZU's work for 2016. When we talk about a report on the work of a respected institution, then of course t can open a series of topics, and it's good to talk, in this distinguished House, and it's good to discuss. I'd like to mention a few things through this debate that, of course, I think is important enough and it's never enough to say, is one topic, the subject of education. Through her report, the Academy spoke of what part they participated in, in which part they discussed, through the Scientific Council also have a special Scientific Council that is related to it. Education for the simple reason that I am sure that every child wants education to learn how to pour, learn to conclude, learn to make decisions. And that's why this is one place to discuss, where to talk, where to discuss it all. In his opening statement, Mr Rudan said the following. He also mentioned Museum Night and mentioned Book Night. So that's something we have in all major cities in Croatia, without wanting to offend others, and that's where kids from the earliest age meet something called something other than that classical education, Nightbooks and Night Museums is extremely important, when you look at it, then you see that there are children who are from the earliest age of life, who are meeting something that needs to be our daily life. Likewise, the impact of the importance and debate that the academy has to do with education is extremely important. A country like Croatia that faced real danger. The real danger is called the problem of moving young people, the problem of aging, the problem that over ten years we will not have enough labour to keep the social and pension minimum. We have to be absolutely aware of that. And now is the right time to point out that and education is one of the important things and something that is extremely important about it. And that's what this assembly was all about, and we all take every chance to talk about it, so this is one of those opportunities. I'd like to say a few words about one topic that when you look at these 19 Scientific Councils, then you see that there was also debated about natural wealth and oil problem, the problem of gas, you also have opportunities that are related to the Adriatic Sea, but there is something that I've already said on several occasions, so I'm also taking this opportunity. This century is the century where man will encounter the next problems. The problem of waste and waste management. A problem related to wastewater management and a problem called climate change. Climate change, no matter what Mr Trump came and became President of the United States, said it was a lie and it doesn't exist. And that it doesn't exist. And the Chinese said climate change is a serious problem, a serious problem is climate change. And in the report when you see a little bit, you can see that the academy in certain discussions is also facing it, but I'm sure it's something that needs to be added to the importance over the next year. Climate change when you see little in Croatia, when you compare a little with what has been happening lately and what is happening. Not only do we feel that from one continental climate I'm talking about this part that, with four clear seasons, has turned into two seasons. However, you can also see this on the changes that have occurred with the temperatures that are being monitored. And when you see a little bit, so those who deal with it and who talk about some 2030 and 2050 and an absolute change. I'm sure now is the time to talk about climate change. I am sure that the academy, through its scientific councils, is the right place to talk about it, the right place to discuss it. And I hope that some report there that will be next or some of the following years will have a much larger topic regarding climate change. It's something to talk about now, something to talk about globally. So Croatia is a country that is when we talk a little bit about some division is continental and Mediterranean character, but it is something that you can absolutely see not in everyday life. The consequences of climate change, the consequences of seeing how they will deal with agriculture, the consequences in the plant and animal world. The consequence of something that we have special two scientific councils dealing with cultural heritage, also dealing with natural heritage. And it is also good to use this opportunity to talk a little bit about cultural heritage that is extremely important and that is extremely important, which speaks of the history of a people, is what the people have been through. I'm an architect, by the way. Architects tend to always do something new, work in a different way. However, when it comes to cultural heritage, then it is really important to appreciate the tradition and the way it was before. And we have a theme of natural heritage. Natural heritage we will have today in the debate Strategy on nature, i.e. on nature protection. Croatia is a state that has according to all indicators that are absolutely independent because, of course, satellite footage is slightly more than 5% of built space. The built space means not only under the buildings, but also under the infrastructure, i.e. on the roads, everything that was built for use. We have more than 50% of this hour, and when it comes to agricultural areas, it's about 40%. It is a Croatian advantage and we need to experience it as such. And in the context of that, I would take advantage of the opportunity and mention the book of Croatian natural wealth which, therefore, was the publisher of the Academy. One of the authors was Professor Neidhardt who was my assistant, and later he was a professor. Or when I was in college he was still an assistant and really in his work as an architect he left a trail on these premises and I am really taking advantage of this opportunity even though it really doesn't need to be said from here by academic Neidhardt he really left a trail in architecture. This book is extremely important because it speaks of Croatia's natural resources. It's not just about national parks and nature parks, it's about some other things. It is convenient to look at it, it is convenient to comment on it, it is convenient and discussed for the simple reason why when we talk about a country development strategy, then Croatia should decide which direction it develops. Nature's wealth and we'll have a chance to talk about it, I think it's today's last item of the agenda, then we'll have a chance to talk about some facts that need to be taken into account. I think natural wealth is a comparative advantage of Croatia. I don't think we should actually insist on some things that some other countries have been through. For example, in its development, Germany has come a long way so that it has taken the greatest advantage of nature and turned it into agriculture. And then there was 15 years ago a reverse process happened in Bavaria which was then called because it was difficult to translate from Germany, from English it was something simpler to translate. It was called natural. It was natural that you surfaces that were used for agriculture for years returned to, in a way that they were no longer used for agriculture, i.e. because Bavaria was economically powerful enough, it decided to pay people a fee as if they had a culture that they had, so there was the highest contribution, they were getting so much money that they left their surfaces and that they were returning to nature, and that was why it was called natural. They were very proud there that some forests had returned, so some bars returned, and the frogs who crocheted were more of an absolute stranger. In Croatia, it is not like that, and I think it is a comparative advantage. And that's why I tie it to the book. It is extremely convenient to look at this book, it is convenient to see what Croatia has to do with it and it is convenient to take care of it. I think that a certain economic advantage can be derived from this comparative advantage, not in a way that we consider nature to be, that is, a way to spend, but I think it can be defined differently. These 19 scientific councils are extremely important, it is an extremely important way of working them, and I hope, as I said, that the topic of climate change that is extremely little to talk about from this pay phone, and they deserve it because it is something that we need to talk about now so that some of the results might eventually see and see the shifts that we want over the decade, that this is one of the topics that really is the right place for the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and the right place to discuss it. So we'll support the report for this year, and somehow through this debate I'm trying to point to the fact that we're doing a little bit of encouraging climate change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43462	Thank you, too. Mrs. Mrak-Taritash from the Club of Independent Representatives and HSU, so to correct... There's no replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Veljko Kajtazi in front of the National Minorities Club. We've got five laws left besides this, so everyone has a right to take advantage of... the minutes, and the ones who won't use it, will cause the sympathy of all of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43463	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear academics, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another report from the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. The most important academic institution in the country, gathering our intellectual elite. In addition to the evil comments, which we can often hear today directed towards the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and generally anti-intellectualism which is increasingly common in our society, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is under way last year, has shown that it is an important institution that has recognised the need to cover all its citizens with its work. We are talking, of course, about the already traditional marking of the world day of Roma. We have recently voted on the decision to use the term "amudaipen" as the right term for marking, the death of the Roma in 2nd St. The war. And this is exactly the decision of the International Roma Union, confirmed at a rally held in November last year at the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, where we had the opportunity just to be both the President and the Prime Minister. In the course of these activities, we here in the Croatian Parliament, made a previously adopted decision to mark international today's memories of the Roma victims of genocide in the 2nd century. The war. It's just... Which once again proved to be the leader of the Republic of Croatia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] important decisions for the wider Roma community in Europe and the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is very important to note that these decisions are later implemented in a number of other countries, and that work, the Roma community, is supported by the most institutions. I am pleased, because right through the Croatian Academy of Science and Art we have raised important questions for the Roma community, globally, which is why we have already highlighted ourselves in countless unserious attempts of a similar nature. Since the previous report, to date, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has made another step in supporting my initiative, to set up measures of positive discrimination in enrolment of members of the Roma community in Zagreb and the University of Zagreb. As a roof academic institution in the Republic of Croatia, the Academy detected the problem and signaled it to both the university and the public, including us here in the Parliament. These days, when the spear is broken, about the strategy of education, science and technology and the corresponding action plan, we have to remember how these documents, when we talk about the Roma community, are more like a wish list than real conditions on the ground. Specific measures as supported by the Academy are by all indicators necessary to change the situation. And such measures are only detected through action plans and strategies. Since 2013, through the National Strategy for Roma, we have been talking about 2 years of preschool, about Roma children, and this is not realized. We're talking about playgrounds in neighborhoods, so we still don't have them. We're talking adult education, lifelong learning, various projects, the introduction of a model C for Roma language. About the systematic, monitoring of early school leaving, extended stay, supplemental follow-up, formalisation of informal qualifications, etc. Well, we have very small shifts. The result is that we have 20 to 40 students members of the Roma minority throughout the country and that fewer of them are graduating from the university. It's the best indicator of the success of our education system when we talk about the Roma. The Academy is clear, taking the view that we must change such a situation, fulfilled its role, detecting this problem, as one of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia. Finally, as last year I want to point out, I'm sorry that in financial terms we don't support the Academy any more than we do in global education. All relevant research and expert opinions show that each institution in the academic community and education is highly profitable and that it has a feedback on the economy and the overall state of society. In the future, we will have to worry more about this, and for this report, the Academy will vote positively as well as the National Minority Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43464	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kajtazi, I came forward with the replica, to further highlight the problem that has emerged these days, where Mrs Vican's strategy for science and technology in the action plan, which we are happily withdrawn, but she remains president of the commission, completely excluded all that needed to be done to improve the Roma education process in Croatia, which is extremely significant, because according to the data available to us, 70% of elementary school students, Roma, do not finish primary school. So, from those who go to 1 grade, to those who get to 8, 70% are lost, and the second data that is frapantic, 85% of Međimurje Roma, who are unemployed, has not completed their primary school. So you're part of the ruling majority, and how do you comment on what's happened in the last few days, and do you have any guarantees that it won't happen again?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43466	Replication response, Mr. Keatazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43467	Thank you. Dear colleague, in the introduction you mentioned, I completely agree with you, but it's not since yesterday. That's a couple of years back. And I just need to draw attention to you that members of the Roma community, it's not just about the strategy of education, science and technology, it's about a few different documents that several governments have just brought in. We remember only in 2003 when the National Programme for Roma was adopted, after which we had decades or decades for Roma from 2005 to 2015 and from 2013 to 2020 we also have a National Strategy for Roma that includes precisely the life and resolution of burning Roma issues, that is to say, housing, education and employment and health, etc. When it comes to education, I fully agree with you, a very small shift has been made. Why is that, I must say, I don't know, but it's high time we all did something together, and that's exactly what I said in my own debate about what it did to HAZU in such a way that it supported that in universities and universities we must have positive discrimination when it comes to members of the Roma community. The moment we have at least one member of the Roma community at the universities and universities, I think we're going to make a big move for the Roma community, especially quotas. These days we see how much trouble we have in enrolling children in high schools. Everyone is one or two points short of knowing how this would help the Roma community. Just... and I think we should all work together. I'd have a lot more, but I can see the time is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43468	Thank you very much. Thanks, buddy. Mrs. Sanja Putica, individual debate first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43469	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed academician Rudan, Secretary General of the HAZU. I can see that unfortunately, the debate on the HAZU Report is trying to turn in a direction that is not appropriate and which is not the subject of this report, but in order to be related, I would say that the Academy has never, in this time when it is debated in the Croatian public about curriculative reform, the implementation of the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology, will not be affected by any influence, so it will not be now. Members and esteemed members of the HAZU are members of a special expert commission appointed by Prime Minister Plenkovic and their appointment shows that the Croatian prime minister has made sure that the academy and its esteemed members are represented in the commission that will adopt the action plan. I would say as far as the report itself is concerned, academic Rudan had significant lexiographic knowledge in his hand, I would say Letopis HAZU, which contains a complete picture of the work of the Academy in 2016, an extremely intense and meaningful work of all the academy classes, but also a great commitment to organisational scientific gatherings, professional discussions, presentation of books of various editions, exhibitions. It is certainly necessary to highlight the HAZU's activities on all important open issues in the Republic of Croatia, especially those concerning both the existence and identity of the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, it would highlight the importance of such influences, but also the exceptional intellectual potential that it would say that Croatian society should be exploited even more. It is also worth mentioning a series of awards that HAZU is awarding, encouraging scientific work, research art, and I particularly support and highlight those Academy awards that apply to young people, for example, to the programme of awarding and scholarshiping women to science under 35 years of age. It is also to refer to the action of the Academy throughout the Republic of Croatia. I believe that just in expanding the functioning of the HAZU to local environments, cities lie the potential and space for better presence and visibility of the HAZU and its influence throughout the Republic of Croatia. The Academy is not only active in the field of the Republic of Croatia, as we can read in the report, but also on the international agenda, and on all important projects especially for those in science, so it should be proud to point out what academic Rudan himself said, the role of the academic Žic Fuchs in the European Commission's working group at the highest level for EU research and innovation programmes. The Academy has its representatives in almost all relevant institutions of similar action, as well as in the International Union Academy of which we have heard about for a little while. We need to highlight the rich publishing activity of HAZU and here we see that in 2016 the Academy published 102 volumes, 21 books, 19 conventions, 34 journals and 13 catalogues. Because of what we have heard here today and what we have heard for many years in the Croatian Parliament, but especially the 2016 Report, it should be said that the Academy represents a fundamental institution in the Republic of Croatia for science, culture, art, but that its work should be encouraged in terms of preserving the identity of the Croatian people and involved in all relevant issues in Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43470	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, the first is Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Putica, I agree with 98% of your debate, but because of what you said at the beginning, I have to react. So no one here tried to reverse the topic from the debate and talk about Mr Plenkovic not doing anything right. I understand you because you were the secretary of state at the time, so try to defend indefensiblely. So the debate was completely on the trail of what HAZU is doing for the simple reason that HAZU has established guidelines for the development of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, and Ms. Diana Vican at the head of the Special Expert Commission somewhere in some corner of the Ministry where you were the State Secretary has changed 66% of the objectives of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy. I ask you, what would have happened and what would have happened to some clerk if, for example, decide to change the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia on its own. So Mrs. Vican but not even her, but her responsibility, she pushed through Andrej Plenkovic's some kind of action plan that was made in the Ministry of Science and Education in some corner, completely inappropriately mutilating the strategy of education, technology science. Mrs. Vican didn't even read it, but assured Andrej Plenkovic that it was a good action plan and actually cast out his reputation for the public's test. Therefore, the only thing this lady can do is resign herself and let some competent team come up with a completely new action plan that will not revise the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology because only the Croatian Parliament can do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43472	Thank you very much. Mrs. Putica's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43473	Dear Representative Jovanovic, I am sorry and academic Rudan that you must now listen to this debate, neither is Mrs Vican here nor is the topic of the work of the special expert commission. I just told you, and otherwise as a member then, or as someone sitting in all the sessions of a special expert commission, I can categorically reject your finding that someone was changing something somewhere. The committee appointed by the prime minister was made up, or still made up of a number of diverse and very professional people who also came from the SDP in part, and they also voted in those sessions on what was being taken away from the prime minister. So no one did anything on their own, everything was brought to the level of one high consensus. As for the Academy and its participation, I only esteemed academic Rudan want your exceptional commitment and motivation for educational issues in the Republic of Croatia because it will guarantee us exactly the neutrality, objectivity and expertise in order to produce the best solutions for the Croatian education system and our students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43474	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think the topic we have touched, and I want to relate to my colleague Jovanovic, is very important not only for HAZU but for the entire Croatian public. Namely, as my colleague Jovanovic said, it is an extraordinary honor for me to have had the opportunity to vote in favour of this strategy, unlike your clubmate. The guidelines for this strategy have just come from our esteemed HAZU. I don't think our HAZU as progressive and towards a future-oriented institution is going to give up. But unfortunately, some individuals take it as a right. And my colleagues are just as incomprehensible to me when you say that some things haven't changed, unfortunately they have. Unfortunately, they were radically applied. Our Academy is considering strategically, it's something I absolutely want to commend and she's brought a strategic plan of work. We ignore the decisions made by this Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, defending indefensiblely, defending the fact that one person, I will not say that she did it arbitrarily, has changed parts of the action plan we derogate this Parliament that has made that decision. Therefore, no working group, no person can derivate this Parliament, this House chosen by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who brought this Strategy and which the government headed by the prime minister is to be implemented. I do not doubt at all as a colleague Jovanovic that the prime minister may not have been fully aware of the facts, but then it is our duty to get to know him that he may be committing fornication in support of a person who is of different motives, that is what I want to change. Why? I really don't know, but here's what might be an opportunity to explain to HAZ why it's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43476	Thank you very much. Mrs. Putica, you may have made a mistake, yes, but you've made a mistake in hurting the Rules of Procedure, that's why. So the answer is the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43477	It could be both of them, the esteemed Vice President of the Parliament. I am pleased with my colleague Hajdukovic that you are better than me who was sitting on special expert committee sessions, you know exactly what has changed in the action plan and that you are interested in it, so I believe that you will then explain to the prime minister and the special expert commission exactly what it does not need to change. So we would also like to see in this House a moment of everything that is done in the education system. Soon you'll be waiting for him when you see an action plan based on what's been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43478	Thank you very much. And now colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, individual debate, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43479	Thank you very much, Vice President, here's just a brief review of this reply to the replica, and I look forward to the day when the Prime Minister and this Government will put some things into debate in this house, and then I will certainly be ready to talk about it and my constructive colleagues, so not destructively, not after the working group adopts all the proposals of the HDZ Club and then does not vote for that report, but good. But here we are discussing this report, the Annual Report of the HAZU submitted by the secretary of the Academy of Col. Rudan, whom I congratulate once again on the election. And I believe you will light our cheeks in the international field. But again because of your clubmate, I would just like to repeat one fact and say that repeating is the mother of knowledge, which is why the secretary submits the report. It's a debt and I would dare say a noble tradition that exactly the secretary of the academy, not the president, but the secretary submits a report to this home. And we should keep that in mind when we're discussing the second oldest institution of this people, and that's HAZU how the secretary in the opening explanation and said, it was founded by this very home, and that's why I'm very glad that here are hundreds of years after that of the solemn act and I, my little one has a chance to discuss it. Let me once again underline and especially commend the HAZU's insistence to draw us a course like I said, as a progressive and forward-looking institution, to draw us a direction towards how the whole of Croatia should work and that is decentralisation. In the eastern part of Croatia, we have three institutions, Osijek, Vinkovci and Đakovo, which is the youngest and I am very glad that the Academy has most cast its emphasis on the east, as the east of Croatia will say in the worst economic situation, but as far as scientific production is concerned, it is very rich, as far as artistic production is concerned, and that, the academy recognises, values and wants to help both this part of Croatia and thus. Also, I would certainly like to thank you, and I absolutely agree with the academy when strategically considering and bringing in a strategic Work Plan by 2020, which is absolutely something that we should serve as an example, since we usually approach some of the problems in order to focus on strategic thinking, we have brought in some of the strategies in this House, we need to implement them and a strategy of something that we need to have a consensus on. What we will not agree on may be ways to reach goals, but our goals should always be the same. In particular, I would like to commend the exhibition gallery units of our academy, especially the Strossmayer gallery in Zagreb, which has very much something to show, precisely thanks to our great medena Strossmayer. She would be very pleased and in fact it is commendable and I would like to point out that the curators of the academy are very valuable in keeping this one of the greatest treasures of sacral art in the Republic of Croatia. Strossmayer was a great collector, we have a lot of works that are not only about Croatia and it is really valuable and I call on the Croatian public to go to see it anyway. Academics have always been and always behaved in the manners of a good master. When we talk about financial reports over a number of years, it's always been like that, I just want to point out once again, congratulate our academics in the leadership of the academy for having re-accessed to such an approach, and I believe that it will remain an example for us absolutely. A few more things would trigger, perhaps as a debate at the academy itself. Some three events, or three initiatives, say so, which would like the academy to consider and adopt as its own initiative in the next year, two. The problem of climate change was mentioned. Although the academy has already discussed this, I think it is a seam problem, especially as it is mentioned in the Council of Europe as a possible cause of future migration, therefore the Republic of Croatia as part of Europe, so, the European continent and the EU, must be prepared for these challenges which are sociological and social, political, economic, each and every other, I believe that our academy can say very much about this, both from the international point of view and from our home, so how to prepare for this challenge. Whether migration is viewed exclusively as a problem or as a challenge, i.e. an opportunity to enrich our society and plan the future. Also, we have a big jubilee waiting for us a year, which we can say, if we look at from a historical point of view, it is not one-off, but I would put emphasis here on the positive aspects of that, and that is 150 years since the signing of the Croatian-Hungarian settlement. Which has, therefore, its negative sound, but it also has the positive one. The only act of signing the Croatian-Hungarian settlement is the recognition of the Republic of Croatia that it enjoyed special legal status within the monarchy, i.e. within the Republic of Stjepan. In the spirit of strengthening friendly relations with our northern neighbour, Hungary, but in the spirit of the great jubilee that we are marking, so legally above all jubilee, I think we should mark this in a decent way both in Croatia and Hungary, on their part there is an absolute, Hungarian State Archives and preserves and originals, I think that academy could certainly say and say, and show and contribute to such an event. Also, when we talk about fighting corruption, which is unfortunately a phenomenon, so corruption, especially that political corruption, which is the worst form of corruption, is the phenomenon with which the entire democratic society is struggling. The Republic of Croatia, our people can be proud of the Vinodol Code, which is one of the oldest documents, is definitely the oldest in Croatia, but one of the oldest ones about this part of Europe that talks about exactly that, about fighting corruption. My proposal was that, as part of the Presidency of the Council of Europe, we have this exhibition in Strasbourg, but I believe that there is also our Academy of Science and Arts that could say something, contribute, and actually promote Croatia that has fought against corruption hundreds of years ago and in written laws. And in the end, I wouldn't use aliens, so I wouldn't say conceit, but I would say imagination, imagination, the power of imagination, thinking, above all, that long-term thinking and thinking is what our academy has to do with a special institution and an extremely important institution for the Republic. I want to congratulate you on your work so far and wish to continue on that trail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43480	Thank you very much. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, one replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43481	I thank you, although she is already late for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I will say, I have a need to remind you, therefore, that in both previous replicas and in the first part of her debate, he began to speak which is not the subject of the debate. Article 238(1) [[/Intruder Radin: Which article?]] And here's what I need to say, is that in some way the time that today's debate on the report on HAZU's work in 2016 has been misused, by turning the topic into something that is not the subject of today's report. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43482	Thank you very much. We have each other in the meantime, Mr. Hajdukovic's injury... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43483	No, no, this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's an injured article 236, which says what a violation of the Rules of Procedure is, so if a colleague thinks that this debate is an infringement of Article 238, as she said, those are the reasons for the procrastination of the strict measures, I don't see who I am or whether I've offended anyone, or if I've ever gotten the conditions to give the measures. But if we're talking about education as an integral piece, something that HAZU is worried about, that it's a detour with it, I really don't see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43484	... that we are allowing the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to resolve it, or are we going to go over it? [[Specially enabled.]] We'd better get across. ... Mr. Jovanovic, replica. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43485	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic, you were saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43486	Just a minute. ... Now or leave? ... [[You can't hear it.]] Did he get back to you right away or what? [[You can't hear it.]] No, I don't. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43487	Thank you very much. You spoke about the subject of education, science and not a fraction of the space you went beyond what is the subject of this debate for the simple reason that in the Croatian Academy and Art report, it provides proposals and opinions to improve science and art in areas of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia. The report also says that 2016 also dealt with issues of curricular reform. For the sake of the public who is following this debate, we should say once again that the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology is a key document for the future of Croatia, so it is precisely asked the Academy to participate actively in the implementation of the strategy and to ensure that the strategy is implemented without changing beyond the Croatian Parliament's decision. Diana Vican, who runs a special expert strategy commission, violated the Constitution, violated the Croatian Parliament's decision, violated the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts' contribution to the creation of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, because she changed 66% of the objectives of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy voluntarily, without the permission of the Croatian Parliament, and that no one knew it, nor did the members of the SDP, who are part of the special expert commission, which is clear from yesterday's meeting, where one single vote on the action plan proposed by Mrs Vican came from whom? From Mrs. Vican. So, after that... has resigned and has left someone else to lead a special expert commission on the implementation of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, in particular, because a fully non-transparently appointed expert task force for the implementation and preparation of the curricula reform that Mr Puljak has testified about 50 days after he has applied for the Ministry of Science and Education to submit to him a procedure appointing the expert working group of life reports and their proposals has not received a reply from the competent ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43488	Thank you very much. We have an injury to the Rules of Procedure, we don't know who because you picked up the bat after I already gave my word to Mr. Jovanovic. But you'll say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43489	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is a breach of the Rules of Procedure referred to in Article 238(3) relating to that representative who, in other words, interferes with the speaker. Namely, Mr. Shuker's return was very much felt in the Croatian Parliament, because the injuries that I have just mentioned have become more and more frequent, and one of them we had an opportunity to experience exactly 2 minutes and 45 seconds ago, and I ask you to comply with Article 238(3). At least warn the Rules of Procedure, pardon point 3. At least warn Mr. Shucker when he's yelling from the bench if that's why you're not going to give him a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43490	I'll answer you in Istrian and you're right, too. Here's an answer to...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43491	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Jovanovic, I agree with you. Here we go again, I think. Okay. So, my colleague Jovanovic, I think it is extremely important that we discuss this problem just when we talk about the report of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. I'm going to point out one more time, and I'm extremely glad that our academy has been working out a draft strategy guidelines that we're talking about. I think the academy is very involved and invited to have something to say about it just as a progressive institution that cares about the future. And I have to figure out in the previous years some colleagues and colleagues may not remember, but on the other side of the assembly came an attack on the academy not to do what they were supposed to do. And I'm still saying, and then I'm saying, and now I'm saying it's doing exactly that, and if we're going to do statistics, then the pure figures are going to deny them about scientific gatherings, the number of publications, the number of books published, the number of exhibitions, etc. etc. When we talk about strategy, the strategy sets goals. The goals must always be the same, especially if they are brought by this highest House. So the goals are the same. The way we're going to get to them, we can discuss it. Someone may have different visions about it, but changing the goals of colleagues it's to derrogate the decisions of this House and we won't accept it. I won't accept as an agent who voted in favour of that strategy, and I believe neither are you in your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43492	Thank you, too. And in the end, academic Rudan will have the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43493	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would kindly ask your distinguished colleagues to allow me first to respond to the respected members of the Croatian Parliament, and then to the men's members in the Croatian Parliament. Mrs. Bedeković, you, as chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, really touched me when you made such a nice presentation of the opinion of you, your party and the entire Committee on our work in 2016. It's nice to hear at my age, because I'm about to enter 76 years of my life, so I'm glad to hear something so beautiful about an institution that I'm honored to be Secretary General. Thank you so much for everything you said. As far as education is concerned, Commissioner Jovanovic mentioned our two institutions in Rijeka very nicely. It's an institution by the academics Rukavina and an institution by the academics Strčić. These are two institutions along with the third one that counterpart Hajdukovic said in Osijek who are really the best seducers of our academy and they are just outside Zagreb. I'm glad we started a institute in Djakov last year because Strossmayer was far more than a member of our people. He is a member of the world, because on the basis of magnificent ideas, enlightenment, how only an average people can be free people, his commission has been enlightened to freedom, so let's always keep that in mind. By education to freedom, which means that education reform in every society, as well as in our society, is of crucial importance, because people, young people, who have perspectives, clearly indicate that they must be honest people, that they must not be thieves, that they must learn and work and so go forward. I think that the Academy, in its clear position, in the past year, has made a statement about the education strategy, but the Academy is not an institution that can get involved in daily politics. We can point to many things, many things can be considered, many things can be seen and pointed out. But you members, the Parliament, the Republic of Croatia, are responsible for doing so. So, all that's been put here, given the different subjects, you have to bring it out yourself, forgive me for the expression, on your back. As far as personal vanity is concerned, which you mentioned by your colleague Jovanovic, given the curricular reform, education reform, is not an easy job. I must admit, that Mr. Prime Minister, elected two members of the Academy, these are distinguished Mrs. College Professor Žic Fuchs and distinguished Mr. Academy Professor Ivica Kostovic, they are members of this expert group that will act together with the others. They now have a clear task, and there is a clear task ahead of them, that they must do things in such a way as to make this reform proud of both this Parliament and our entire people. We have from elementary school to academy, a whole series, a whole series of magnificent people, and the most important ones are in elementary school. Trust me. My mom was a teacher and she never taught me, but she showed me how to study. Therefore, elementary school is the most important and later on. So, once again I point out that the Academy can't make an active statement about it. We can help, but you have to make a decision. As for my colleague Hajduković, I thank you very much for mentioning our office in Osijek, where our correspondent Professor of Emeritus Antun Tucak, together with academics Mutnjaković and Mrs. Academics Piljot, lead one of our best institutions. But I have to admit, we were also in Vukovar last Monday, because in Vukovar we also established an office, and now his head of this institution is academician Paul Pavlicic. Who better to judge Vukovar than Pavel Pavlicic, who is a Vukovar, who is one of the greatest writers, modern writers we have. As for Mrs. Dark-Taritash, I must admit, it always surprises me with its architectural thinking. Namely, of the 10 cousins and three cousins in my family, five cousins are architects and I must say that all those things you pointed to are excellent. I'm glad you mentioned it and I mentioned it on the fantastic book of our Vice President of the Academy of Needhardt and his co-authors' co-authors' co-authors' editors, Zelic, about the natural resources of Croatia and the protection and responsible development. This responsible development also connects to climate applications, connects to waste management. I who live in Warsaw Street, believe me, every night I see very well what it means to take care of waste in a small, very small area of our city. I thank you for your support. My dear and respected representative of the national minorities, Mr. Veljak Kajtazi. When I mention it, forgive me to say Veljko, whenever I mention you, then I always want to thank you on my behalf, but also on behalf of the president of Kusic Academy, because academician Kusic and academician Paul Rudan are honorary members of the Roma association KALI SARA. Therefore, I am honored to be an honorary member of the KALI SARA Association. It is my pleasure, too, that our Croatian Academy of Science and Arts was the first academy in the world, the scientific academy and the art academy to really support and maintain a fantastic symposium for the second time dedicated to the Roma language. There were representatives of Roma associations from many countries in the world. And I was glad that along with our beautiful anthem "The Beautiful Our Homeland" was also played by the Anthem of the Roma People. That was fantastic. And I'm glad that always the Academy can help our fellow Roma citizens, because it's also the Roma Academy in the Republic of Croatia. As for the esteemed Lady Putica, I must say that I am always pleased when she speaks, because the experience has, the vocabulary is remarkable and I am glad she said, that the task of the Academy is to preserve the identity of the Croatian people. It is our job, because Strossmayer said that the task of the Academy is knowledge and education. As for colleagues Jovanovic and some organizations that appear, unfortunately, there are many organizations that appear and register as such. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in Diaspora is probably one of such associations. We're unfortunately counting on it, or maybe fortunately we're not taking the lead because I don't think we should go down to that level. When I started getting an enormous amount of e-mails more than a year ago and some messages, as a doctor, I will not say what kind of messages, I clearly replied to him quote, “Dear, do not burden my computer with your offices anymore. Thank you very much. Paul Rudan." In a few minutes, I got the answer, "We Croats". The Lord does not know that I am also a Croat, I live in a house that was built in the eastern hills of the island of Hvar in the 14th century. Above the door says... /The speaker speaks Latin./... "The entrance to this house is welcome, but only here and more than anywhere," so come as a friend. And if people write a lot of things, let's not pay attention to that. As for colleagues of Bunjca UNESCO Plitvice Lakes, I think that academics Neidhardt and academic Zelic and his associates responded very well because the book on natural resources of Croatia is a fantastic one indicator. And there are also three or four scientific councils in the academy dealing with these problems. Of course we can't handle it. And now we come to a colleague of Mr. Vučetic's. I have to admit that you verbalize things far better than me and I was just a little envious is your vocabulary exceptional. I was glad that you said monumentization it was one of the expressions that I had not quite had the opportunity to hear until now, but I see that you have several times mentioned anthropology, it is a pleasure to me because more than 45 years ago after my study of medicine and experimental biology in Zagreb finished and studied, a postgraduate study in Paris at the University of Paris where I graduated from anthropology. There was an extraordinary man who came from Africa professor... The professor... gave a magnificent lecture on the evolution of man and of Australian opiates. I didn't know why my mentor asked him, Professor. Olivia, what the Catholic Church says about your research. I stayed surprised, but... said Mr. Professor Science has its problems, and religion has its problems, let's not mix them up. In a few days I learned that he was a professor... Jesuit and was a professor of evolution at the Jesuit University of Madrid. You have shown fantastically that in many things science should be taken seriously because if we want to go forward, we can only be a country of knowledge. It is my honor that the HAZU is trying in every way possible to promote this knowledge and to understand what our national identity and art is. This is why I would now thank you all both from the right hand and from the left and from the front, or as we call ourselves, for the wonderful support you gave to HAZU because believe me under the leadership of the Academy of Kusic, led by our administration and the Presidency of the Academy, the academy has performed its duties with honor and responsibility last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43494	Thank you too, academic Rudan. We still have one replica of Mr. Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43495	Thank you, Vice President. Very short. Dear academic Rudan, I didn't know about Vukovar, but I absolutely want to congratulate you on that, and I want to congratulate the academics, because it's a great honor for our entire region. And even if you let me have one intervention when you talk about Strossmayer and when you say that only the enlightened people are free people, here's an intervention I can't say in words, but I'll say it like this... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43496	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met, which means Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43497	Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2016. The report is submitted by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2016 is accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 118 for, 4 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43498	Let us move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 139. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the cells so that you all had insight into the materials. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed by an urgent procedure, so this is the only reading we will have. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure emergency procedure, as you know, unites first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, and the Committee on the Constitution Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the report at the session, the amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Here with us is Mrs Katica Prpić, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43499	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, the Honorable Parliamentarians. Here is a proposal for a law to establish that funds from a special account for the regular financing of independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of the unit of the local (regional) and the regional self-government chosen from the list of group voters and funds from a special account for the financing of the electoral promotion of candidates for independent lists or voters' list holders are excluded from the exercise, in order to enable those persons to use funds from special accounts for the purpose of which they are intended. According to the applicable law, the accounts are specific purposes for the financing of the political action of independent representatives and councilors during the year, i.e. for the financing of election promotion of candidates and independent lists, i.e. a list of voters, and the funds from those accounts must not be used for private purposes. In particular, the applicable law provides for treatment in the event of enforcement of the above-mentioned accounts for the costs incurred for private purposes. It is prescribed that independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government chosen from the list of a group of voters, i.e. candidates and holders of independent lists, or holders of a list of voters' groups in the event of the implementation of funds from a special account for covering transactions made for private purposes be obliged to repay the amount of funds made by paying the executive amount to a special account within the prescribed time limit. However, as in accordance with the Law on the implementation of the budget implementation, the cash performance is carried out by all accounts in all banks according to the personal identification number of the perpetrators without its consent, such a solution in practice in the case of a number of members of the representative body of the self-government selected from the list of the voter group caused a continuing problem, in particular in the case of a high amount of enforcement. Since, after the payment of the executive amount to a special account, the same and every time is completed again and so on in continuity. This makes it impossible for council members to use funds from a special account for regular annual financing for which they are intended to prevent them from having regular political action. That solution also leads to the inability to run under equal conditions for those persons in the blockade. Namely, candidates, independent list holders, or voters' list holders, are obliged to open a special account for the financing of the electoral promotion and, at the same time, if they are in a blockade due to the performance of the accounts, in all banks according to the personal identification number of the perpetrators, the financing of the electoral promotion will be disabled. In order to address that problem, the proposed amendment to the law, instead of a solution so far, which sets out the obligation to repay executive funds from a specific account if the funds are made to cover the costs made for private purposes, proposes to establish that funds from a specific account are excluded from the application. In accordance with the proposed amendment, it is also proposed to delete the provisions which provided for a fine for a violation for independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of the self-government team selected from the list of voters, i.e. candidates and holders of lists who do not repay the amount of funds within the prescribed time limit as unnecessary. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43500	Thank you, too. Before we go any further, we have two replicas. First Mr. Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, the Committee on the Constitution discussed this bill and submitted two amendments to it. And unanimously these amendments have been submitted as unanimously to support the law. And it's about one flaw in that law that I'm going to try to sum up in this replica in a short time. In this law, funds that independent representatives, or independent councilors, etc., receive for their political work, and those obtained from the state budget are fully excluded from the exercise. However, these independent council members, MPs, etc., should spend these resources on their political work. In order to spend something earlier, they have to make contracts or other legal deals. In the event of failure to comply with their obligations and those resulting from political work, they would not be eligible for the means to do so. It is therefore proposed that such a solution as was proposed by the Government be complemented in such a way that these funds are excluded from the exercise and other than the implementation of the obligation to carry out political activity. In this way, however, it would be possible for these independent representatives, councilors, etc., who do not fulfil their obligations and are bound by their work to be forced to do so, i.e. they can be forced to collect from them. It is a solution that is in some way comparable to that of the one that follows in Article 36. The law on crafts which regulates the way in which a craftsman is responsible for the obligations arising from his activity where his personal property is excluded, we believe that such a solution would further correct the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43502	Thank you. I let you Mr. coat of arms speak because it's legitimate but small and strange to bring up the amendment committee. They are usually presented by the committee rapporteur but you have the right, and you have the right to state it normally, of course on your own behalf not on behalf of the board. Do you want to respond now or later to a replica? Later. Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, a colleague of the State Secretary. Here we enter a provision into a law that is full of inadequacies. We can make the best possible law, and this may be the intention that people who are independent councilmen don't come to a certain offense, given that they spend money and that the execution would be taken off for something else. But how to solve the problem of those who are funding their electoral activities and nothing happens and make all of Croatia and all voters not to tell stupid, naive and say that they have not spent anything and that they have spent 100, 200 or 300 or 500 thousand kuna and are essentially spending much, much more. So give us a solution to prevent it because it happened in this campaign a few months ago, it's obvious that some people said they didn't spend anything, some that they spent 100,000 kunas and, as always, they spin commercials that are in multiple amounts than they reported. So, I expect the Ministry to give me an effective solution, a suggestion on how to deal with it because it's basically the same people. So from election to election, no. The man hasn't paid a donation tax since 15 years ago, still works from his voters, citizens, his town's naives, financing a campaign that doesn't match what he reports. So, let us finally solve these problems that are much more important than whether someone will be in violation of what the State or someone else has done, so these funds are not meant for what was legally meant to be. So much greater is the flaw that I'm talking about, and no one's doing anything or talking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43504	Thank you, Mr. Maras, whatever you want but in two minutes. Whatever you want, but in two minutes. Mr. Grmoya, please. Do you want to answer now or later? Later. Mr. Grmoya, please, on behalf of the MOST Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43505	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the MOST Club supports these amendments, which may be the only thing that we may resent that the President of the Assembly has not put this amendment before the constitution of the council that happened in this past time, because this bill has been prepared at the Ministry of Administration, means even before, so that in this sense it should have gone before with these amendments and what I would like here in this debate, here's a colleague, Grbin, who has brought out this amendment, what is practically a total problem with independent lists, or groups of voters, is that they are too big, that most of them do not meet these obligations, and that we need to see how we allow citizens, through the candidate lists, to run for elections, and not to impose on them the obligations that they cannot meet. I only here saw a report on the financial audit of the political parties of independent representatives and independent members of local and regional self-government for 2012. In the representative bodies of 2777 local units, there were 867 independent members selected from independent lists, of those members, 290 did not submit financial reports to the State Audit Office, and 281 provided financial reports or declarations outside the prescribed deadline. As regards the publication of financial reports by the 867 members, they have not published any financial reports. So we are practically imposing that for every man who has entered a council, in a small municipality, he must have his own website on which to publish a financial report, although perhaps this report is zero kuna and those obligations that we have imposed on the candidate lists of a group of voters are much greater than those imposed on political parties. I can understand that logic, i.e. The fear of the kind of these so-called. large parties, from a larger participation of citizens through the candidate lists of a group of voters, or through independent lists, but that is what we here as the Croatian Parliament must recognize and allow citizens to be politically activated in this way and that is what I mean well for our society. In addition, you are aware of the fact that political parties are in great advantage of independent lists, and we, as a political party, have had to register in order to be in a certain advantage and to gather independent lists through that platform. I think the changes have to go that way. So here, as far as this bill is concerned, we support it, but I think it could have been put on the agenda before, and to help certain councillors who in these past local elections have become it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43506	Thank you for your time. We have three replicas, Mr. Bauk, first. Four replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43507	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You will surely be delighted with my replica, namely I, when it comes to this law, have repeatedly reiterated that under the Constitution, Article 6 of this law regulates the position of financing political parties, I believe that the state from the budget should not finance the activity of individuals who deal with politics, but that is my position that I have already held several times. And I'm staying with that attitude. So I think all you said is true, but that's how it should be. So, if political parties were the basis of a multi-party political system and individuals dealing with politics are one desirable phenomenon, but not part of the system, and not part of the system solution then so should our legislation concerning this, so individuals dealing with politics have their own parliamentary fees, have paid in the Croatian Parliament but what is the basis of political action are political parties and, if there were changes in the law, I should think of them as going in this direction, so that the financing as it says in the Constitution is limited only to political parties, so as you said and what was an independent list in Metkovic became a party, MOST independent lists. And there was a party right away, okay. And many other political parties are today called an independent list. Stipe Petrina, Sandra Švaljek, some others, and then we have the Independent Lists Network, so they too have registered as political parties. And I think that in that sense it would be some kind of solution that we can come up with, and we don't have to agree, but here's the Most Independent Lists is ultimately a political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43508	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43509	Comrade Bauk, I didn't expect you to have a different mindset, I just said that the law suits political parties, not people who want to be independently politically activated, that that's why many of us, too, in my speech and said so, have registered as a political party. I do not consider it necessary for a multilateral, or for democracy, as you said, and for the system to be necessary for political parties only to be financed. I think that it should also be funded by people who, without any party support behind them, are ready with their name and last name to go to the voters, in front of voters. I think they should have the same treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43510	Thank you, Mr. Grmoya. Mr. Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43511	Thank you very much. You complained in your debate that the law favors parties in relation to independent individuals, and you still mentioned that many people have neither filed reports nor provided any data and that it is hundreds of reports that have not been filed. And I'm asking you and I'm wondering if anyone has ever responded to the State Election Commission, because they're satisfied with the report. So, you file the report, I've spent 100 kuna, and you add one bill, and that's where the person responsible is signed. Sometimes some candidates don't sign off on their own but even give authority to sign it on their behalf and that's where the story stops. No one in Croatia, no DIP, no one else, may have controlled the audit. But what will the audit control? An account and what's been reported. But no one has ever, for example, controlled by an analysis, and this can be done in Croatia because there is monitoring and media and advertising, both electronic and Internet, and printed, to see if you have bills for these things. Which is why such an audit would not be ordered by the Parliament through the Office of State Audit, so let us now see in the local elections 2017 let electronic and printed media be analysed and compare the accounts with those registered for certain candidates in the framework of the local elections report. Here's one proposal we could make, see who was messing around. It's possible to see. An analysis of advertising on radio, television, printed media, and comparing to the accounts reported by the candidates. That's what I'm curious about. Not if someone sent or didn't send the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43512	Thank you. Mr. Grmoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43513	Dear colleague Maras, you're the first replica you started here could be read in which direction you're going. You're talking about people who practically have their own political parties. I think you talked about the city of Zagreb and the financing of election promotion. I was talking about councilmen in small municipalities and cities whose law requires that they have websites, that they have to publish a report even though it's zero, it's zero kuna. So these people who want to contribute to their local community, and you're talking about these big political players who come either from big parties or have some of their own parties who called their name and then use huge funds in the election promotion, and show that they spent a lot less. That's another problem. I'm here to protect independent candidates, so candidates who go to the polls as a group of voters. And I absolutely agree with you, and I could talk a lot from my personal experience in the way votes are bought in local elections, how money is spent and what is done. There's a lot of cases like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43514	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Grbin's third. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43515	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear comrade Grumoja, your modus operandi is a deception to the public and you are doing so today. I can't describe it any other way. Half the debate you've been having down there isn't true. So you're saying here that every councilman in a small unit of local self-government must have some kind of cost behind making a website. It's a notorious lie, and that lie comes out because you haven't read the law. Because if you had read the law, you would know that, in accordance with Article 26(3), that council member may ask the local self-government unit to publish his report on its website and it is required to do so on its own cost. So I'm coming in nicely to file a report. My unit of local self-government has to publish that. And you know what the report of those who haven't received any donations looks like? You know what he looks like? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the financing of political activities reads this report as follows: "I did not receive donations." Well, with all due respect, your party advocates transparency. And you are bothered by the provision of a law that prescribes transparency in the publication of financial reports to finance the political activities of councilors who perform public functions. I really don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43516	I assume you'd like to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43517	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43519	You've been very upset by your fellow coat of arms, accusing me of putting out a series of lies. I've been reading a report that shows how many people haven't submitted this report. And my line that people need to publish something on websites, you have called it false and you have stated that it should be done either on the municipalities or on the city pages. I didn't make any mistakes, you only complemented me. I didn't say anything incorrect. You're very nervous, I don't know why. I advocate transparency, but I think that independent candidates talk a little bit to people who went out as a group of voters, that the obligations they have to fulfil are much greater than those that political parties need to meet. If that's not true, then deny me, don't say I'm lying here and don't be upset, there's no reason for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43520	Thank you. Mrs. Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43521	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Grmoy, I have answered the replica for the reason that you stated in your debate that you are truly sorry that this law has not been passed before, even though it has been prepared and that this will have consequences. I don't see what the consequences would be, or what kind of benefit we would have had if we had made it a month ago, and that benefit would not be if the law came into force in 15 days because you yourself know that representative bodies in local and regional self-government units are still in place somewhere, or recently established, that only at the next meetings of the representative bodies will decisions be made on the allocation of funds from their budgets to finance political... The councilor, and then the independent council members will be able to open their accounts on the basis of this decision of funding, and we see that in amending the law, work is precisely on the fact that these funds cannot be implemented unless the amendment is accepted in cases of performance related to their political activity, and therefore I see no reason for such grief. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43522	Mr. Grmoy's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43523	I'm not sad at all, I'm not sad at all, I'm not sad at all, I said it would be better if it were sent to the procedure before, because there are some units of local self-government where the councils are long-established and where these decisions might be made until this law is passed on to me. I was just saying that, of course, that doesn't apply to all local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43524	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Šimić Club of HZD Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43525	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotions shall regulate, among other things, the regular annual financing of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government elected from the list of voters, and the financing of election promotions, political parties of independent lists, i.e. the lists of a group of voters and candidates. This law was passed in 2011 and has already experienced several amendments. In this conference about 3.4 months ago, we also discussed a proposal for amending the law, which referred to the provisions of the laws governing the way in which the amount of financial resources for the work of political parties was determined and the election promotion. Today, we are discussing a part of the law here, namely provisions that require the obligation of independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government elected from the list of group voters to open a special account for the regular financing of their activity, and the obligation of the holder of the list of voters and candidates to open a special account for the financing of the electoral promotion. The law also provides for fines for infringements for those entities which do not open a specific account, i.e. they do not do so by law for the prescribed and prescribed period. It should be borne in mind that this law is prescribed and that funds from those specific accounts should not be used for private purposes. In the light of the law on the implementation of the implementation of the financial assets, the implementation of the financial assets shall be carried out in all accounts, in all banks according to the OIB of the perpetrators without its consent. The law also regulates the conduct in the event of enforcement from those accounts for the costs incurred for private purposes. If we take into account that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has laid the basis for the consumption and respect of political freedoms in the Republic of Croatia and, if we take into account that all the costs resulting from the campaign and the political promotions in the campaign must be reported, i.e. show, and financed from a specific open account for that purpose, that solution leads to, indirectly, the inability to run under the same conditions as those in the blockade. In order to address this problem, it is necessary to exclude the performance of that specific account. A special account for the regular annual financing of independent representatives and members of representative bodies of units of local self-government selected from the list of voters and a special account for the financing of electoral promotion of independent lists, i.e. a list of groups of voters and candidates, thus enabling elected representatives as well as candidates and holders of lists to use funds from those special accounts, for which they are intended, thus enabling the smooth exercise of democratic right to political action, i.e. the exercise of the right to finance their political action. From this point on, it is acceptable for us as a Club of Representatives of the HDZ to propose that this legislative proposal, instead of a solution to which the obligation to repay the funds from a special account is established, if the funds are made to cover the costs made for private purposes, that the funds from a special account for the regular financing of independent representatives, i.e., members of representative bodies and units of local and regional (regional) self-governments selected from a list of voters, and the funds from a special account for the financing of election promotion of candidates and independent lists, i.e. holders of a list of voters are exempt from the exercise. Furthermore, these amendments also propose eradicating the provisions which provided for fines for infringements of those who do not repay the amount of funds within the prescribed time limit, which, by eradicating this earlier provision, actually loses its meaning, so we will also support this provision of the law. It is important to note that the Legislative Committee unanimously supported the adoption of this law and did not object to the proposal for an emergency procedure and to the entry into force of the first day following its publication in the NN. We will also support, of course, the amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, which the esteemed colleague Grbin mentioned at the very beginning, and presented the position and content of the amendments. So it remains to my conclusion that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this bill together with the amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43526	Thank you very much. There was no replica. Mr. Stephen Curry from the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43527	Thank you, Vice President. The authorised promoter, respected colleagues and colleagues of the HNS Club will accept this legislative proposal, therefore, for the above reasons, we have had the situation that in these elections people had a problem not after the election of independent candidates and the regular financing of their work or councilman, but as regards candidates who opened their accounts regardless of whether they were independent or party candidates, we know that candidates for executive office must also have their own account. In fact, I didn't get a lead on whether or not these amendments to the Constitution Committee were shared. I had a similar proposal. As for the possibility of carrying out the same account, there may be a situation that, at the time of the campaign, there are obligations for the election promotion itself, which cannot be carried out on the basis of the mandatory relationship. So we're not talking about something later than what was exactly the subject of funding or the election promotion itself, so we'd go with a proposal to exclude the executive procedures based on electoral promotion of candidates, etc. the independent candidates listed in the final report which must be taken as one of the foundations of the basis for doing the same exception, so please only complete that particular part. In fact, as far as the law itself is concerned, of course there's still plenty of space, my colleague Maras here really mentioned the obvious things where we stick to the letter of the law in terms of form, and most often we miss the content. We had one situation in Osijek-Baranja County where the candidate paid thousands of kuna fines for the simple reason that this is not far enough regulated as it is done when applying. Namely, the candidate had a published report on the web just didn't have the exact name where the other two were, but it was in that section where it was listed... under the web that it was supposed to be. Unfortunately, the judge's first-degree application did not want to hear at all any arguments, evidence, art, went to the second degree a man had lost what would be said neither guilty nor due. For his report, I think 500 kuna was spent, he paid five thousand kuna fines, for 500 kuna promotions, because it wasn't published, but simply someone who looked and clicked to eat where he simply didn't click and there was an automatic application. The DIP is being built he has nothing to do with it anymore. If someone in them missed a little bit of being to look at another link or not, they don't care anymore, and the court doesn't understand and says they delivered us and we followed the punishment. And at the same time, we have obvious misunderstandings and therefore I also support... colleagues of Maras that this should be put into order certainly more content, not perhaps the very form of reporting which is of course good and has brought a lot of good and order among the financing of the election promotion itself, but I would like this one to be about this application and amendments which will certainly be added to those provisions that are based on the implementation, based on the election promotions that are listed in the final report to consider. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43528	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43529	Thank you very much. Mr. Curaj not only what I said about control but what is commonly used in practice, and he totally throws out the whole meaning of the law is that the candidates are first on the list for the council or the assembly and candidates for mayor. So you have disproportionateness, so the mayoral candidate reports the cost I don't know a hundred times smaller than let's say what the party reports for a certain... So there's no correlation at all, and it's using everything it's capable of, so I'd say it hides the real information from the citizens. I am increasingly inclined to restrict in some situations election promotion. Let's say in the city of Zagreb it's a million kuna during the campaign, when it's clearly spent more, but then it's combined, a small mayor, a small congregation. I'm talking about some candidates who are totally ousting the meaning of this law. And does the DIP even control what and how they spend? I'm sure he doesn't control it because in this situation whoever won in the city of Zagreb if they report 200 thousand kuna expenses I think it's a mockery with citizens and with all those who know the problem and it's simply not possible. And when you look at those accounts, you see that there's no ad for some people who have been recorded, but nobody's ever going to ask that of those who should ask those questions. And now we're struggling with whether someone gave 500 kuna, so they didn't file a report, and that's why they got a fine of five thousand kunas, and where they're supposed to urinate, no one asks if anyone signed and filed the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43530	Thank you very much. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43531	Thank you, Vice President. I was waiting for my colleague to finish. Yeah, absolutely on that trail and I was saying that sometimes it's a much more important form than content itself. Of course it remains today for us and for all those who know of some inconsistencies and illegalities to report it to the authorities. I think there was a procedure like that. And what I failed to say is also one possibility of manipulating the return of election promotion. Namely, if a particular candidate makes a more significant return, he can pay it to himself on his own account, which may be blocked by what I said to play the suppliers with whom he made any contractual obligation based on the election promotion itself. Of course, in the case of payment of election promotions in its current account, if the report was in order, he must pay taxes and contributions, it must be accounted for, but still the possibility of being manipulated in the same way by money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43532	Thank you very much. In front of Mr. Aresen Bauk's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43533	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. We will also support this bill with amendments to the Committee on the Constitution and should note that, as you see in the report, the Committee on the Constitution has reached another conclusion that it calls on the Government to propose and amend the article of the law on how to allocate funds during the term of office to sanction the date of declaration of the final results of the elections rather than the constitution so as to cancel the financial impact of the transition in that period. As for the entire law, he has had several repairs, and in 2015 it seems to me that the first reading in the Croatian Parliament has passed, but because of the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament, he has not entered the second reading, so I hope that the Ministry of Administration will also draw some things out of this template to make a whole law which is what we have heard today in the framework of the Open Authority Partnership. Of course, it is particularly important that the State Election Commission and the State Audit Office show a little more rigour than ever before for the implementation of this law. During the 2013 local elections, we had the case that one political party had reported another political party candidate that in the city in which the competition was hung much more of his jumbo posters than it was reported but then the candidate replied that he did not know who was putting his jumbo posters and that this was accepted by the competent authority as an explanation, so you see that he did not. In this respect, the institutions that exercise control over the implementation of this law could also focus a little more on independent councilors and independent representatives than on these things, which are indeed an absurd of electoral promiscation than political activity. As for the rest of this law, which is not subject to an amendment, I will look at only one part of it, so I think that some of the infringements are too strict and the other are too mild and it is also necessary to make a political decision on how to allocate funds from the political parties' budget, perhaps even in a way that most of them get political parties and one smaller part to get individuals, whether members of the parties were not, so that, within that framework, both MPs or council members have a part that they can independently spend on the work of political activity in their electoral unit or somewhere not only depend on the political party when we have already introduced a preferential vote and, of course, the political multilateral system in the Republic of Croatia that they are not, that they are not treated as waste and money from the budget, but rather to allow greater independence of the policy on large capital or suspicious money. I therefore believe that political parties should be financed more from the state budget and less from suspicious or unquestionable donations. And in that sense, there should be no further cuts to the budget for political parties unless, of course, the state goes into a major crisis, and then it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43534	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, first Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43535	Thank you very much, Mr. Bauk. You have just set an exact example that this law does not serve its purpose, and I am also asking, and I hope that the new law will be strengthened in the control section, or that we will give the exercise of powers to the state's audit to control these papers, but also that it can investigate what you said, if someone answered in a way that does not know who glued his posters, then it is very easy to establish in whose advertising space it is, whether this company has charged it to anyone and who printed those posters, who delivered them. So it's very simple, come on, give it to someone who understands these things for a few days and gives them the opportunity to examine and will come up with an answer very quickly. So people simply realized that nothing happens, that they can do whatever they want, that no one asks them anything, that form is the only thing that matters, submits a report, and after that, who cares, means no matter how much, what, how, the important thing is that the report is delivered. And that's why there's such a problem, so the law as such doesn't make sense. Give me a situation where someone is punished for not reporting what they spent. And all the punishments that have been imposed are because someone didn't file a report on the day, they didn't file a report or something else. It means just formalizing the essence of what's going on. And that is, I would say the biggest problem of this law and I hope that the law that we will complete in 2018 will finally lead to its purpose, which is to control what anyone spends in political promotion activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43536	Thank you, Mr. Bauk. You gave up, didn't you? Mr. Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43537	Well, colleague Bauk, I can in principle agree with your debate. However, frankly, listening to these discussions today, man asks himself one question, if in the Budget Law, in that position when, where the funds for the work of political parties are clearly defined why these funds are, if they are said to have to be provided in election years and for the cost of election promotion, then, analoguely, the Law on the financing of political parties should be regulated and that if we are to receive a parliamentary flat-rate for our political action, then I do not see why we should get any more money for political action. Because the law provides money for political action by political parties that have their own office and other costs so that they can function as such and the political campaign is well known. However, there are measurable and immeasurable costs. And as there are different types of political campaigns, this law would practically have to be continuously upgraded with the standards of how much the election campaign costs, after all, that everything would never be determined, but at least that it could be determined and clearly determined what a political campaign of individuals is, and what a political campaign list is. And then you just can't get involved, because look, if you're in some executive position, you run a political campaign every day, your political competitor simply doesn't have a chance and has no right. Just take whatever the political option is, how many different papers have been opened and anything in this election campaign and now all that expensive and media coverage doesn't appear anywhere that it's a political campaign, so there's a lot of that stuff. [[Thank you very much, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43538	Mr. Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43539	Basically, I agree with this other piece, so my intensity was that the funds were still being received by political parties, which should then, within the framework of their financial plan, provide for a certain amount for individuals, or in some such way, but the purpose was that individual resources would then be reduced as individuals, that was also for council members. As for this second piece, which you have said, and therefore the budget funds, the law provides for how much resources are allocated at national level, but there is no limit to any lower or upper for local self-government, and then, of course, it can happen that someone predicts for a year somewhere 1000 kuna for all councilmen, it is again a populist measure, but it is not illegal. And as for the list campaign and the individual in the same election, I think it's one campaign. So someone for tactical reasons pointed out the mayor's candidate in order to get the number of councilors already. Because there's more visibility, so they have that kind of tactics, and they do that. In fact, it's one campaign, and I might even make it possible for them to be financed from one account, of course, so the question is, what if it gets into the second round? This is where you ended the election. There are a lot of these tiny details that are important to those whom they refer to, and also here, so the independent councils really find themselves in one roll to take off their money for the purposes, and then they get the offense because it's not meant to be paid, and then eventually they still have to pay it back, and then when they get back, they take it off again because it's still the tip, etc. So there's a lot of details to take care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43540	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras has a word for himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43541	Thank you very much, colleague Radin. The laws that are passed, of course, are not perfect and it is normal that such changes as MPs and like those who follow these things should be supported and it is not logical that someone really has to pay the penalty for the finished part yet but I would draw attention to this debate and I will give you a very plastic example that the DIP does not check the costs of election promotion, that they are totally illogical, and that the law as such in practice does not make too much sense except to entertain the public with incorrect data. So we have candidates who have reported zero kuna in the big city campaign, telling all of us that the money they invested is theirs without it being reported. We have candidates for the largest city, the city of Zagreb in the Republic of Croatia, where there is an apparent disproportionateness between the costs of one and the second candidate is 1 to 10 compared to the one who spent allegedly twice as much as the first one, where we have the registered accounts of Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash for radio spots amounting to 58 thousand kuna, and there are no such accounts with the anti-candidate, and all of us who have traveled to work in the city of Zagreb and listened to the radio in the morning, we have seen that the attitude of advertising on the radio compared to the Bandic candidate compared to Mrak-Taritaš is not how many times larger, but these accounts here in this report by the Bandic candidate. And then what we have here at all to discuss and pass laws if those laws are not perceived in the way that they should be. Unless they meet their purpose and no one reacts at all. So this is obvious. At this point, the legislator should immediately request at least a sample, not all election units, but on a sample, each year or every election should choose 5% of the electoral units or units of local self-government, which is 30 to 40 in Croatia, and make a detailed review of it. To see whether the accounts are all registered and that people then see from practice what is happening and whether the law should be amended. Let the DIP give an answer and say whether a single report has controlled or only controlled whether candidates have submitted a report within a certain period or not, or whether someone has received a punishment for delay for two days or not. So that's what our citizens are interested in, and that's what finally in Croatia, perhaps after 10 elections in the future, will restore some trust in the truthfulness of these data and the faith of Croatian citizens not to fool everyone, but because of those who are most visible in this moaning, it turns out that it's all expensive and that things don't work. These laws, this debate doesn't make any sense until we solve the essence of the problem, which is that it's not allowed by various local sheriffs to do whatever they think they're doing, and nobody ever sanctions them, and I'd go even harsher. It means that not only are they sanctioned in cash, but that in certain situations, a certain prison sentence can also be obtained for serious fraud. And then people would think about whether it's with citizens' trust and information that gets them to be exact whether someone would play or really act the way they're supposed to act, which is that we all have the same starting position and that we're all equally responsible for the law. In this situation here we are discussing totally irrelevant things for me, which is whether someone will be or not be completed for a certain activity, and on the side I told us the data and information girls I would say without any control and without any supervision. Well, when something's established, it's been going on for years. In the end, ask God if he'll ever have any sanctions. Then when people learn that someone acts that way, unfortunately after five choices, they don't even take it as evil anymore. He says it's normal for him. We've chosen him three times already, so why don't we pick a fourth time. So let's just hope that in the future it won't be normal and that when citizens see that these laws are passed with some intention, when they see that it works in practice, they might sometimes sanction someone for that unacceptable behavior. Because it's amazing to me that someone in Zagreb who wins the election reports in the campaign of two hundred thousand kunas. With three ads in three newspapers and certain billboards, and for advertising, it's almost gone. Who knows which way it's paid, whether it's paid, whether it's a hidden donation, whether it's transferred to the list... Well, it's not like it's not, and basically, the candidate's talking in the video. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are so many things that are unclear, clouded and untransparent that we simply have to see what we have to do to make it for some future elections to be corrected. These other national elections eventually turn out to be the cleanest. Ten years ago, we had all kinds of campaigns, and we remember how it ended up in court epilogues. But let's get this over to some I'd say acceptable levels, but this at local level really is now seen in some situations just doesn't make any sense at all. And that's what I'm saying now because the local elections were not long ago, and citizens can really see it from their own examples in their cities, municipalities and counties. So here, I can now commend a colleague from HDZ. So the most expensive campaign is that it was the most expensive campaign as far as costs go, it turns out it was in Split. I mean, that's impossible. So there is no way that in a campaign in Split, one candidate spent two and a half times more money than it was done in the city of Zagreb. Because the simple surface and the expensive media and the number of billboards and everything doesn't hold any level with each other at all. And that's why I'm appealing to you to see how to change these things, that the next law really adapts in this way I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43542	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43543	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Maras. You mentioned the elections in the town of Zagreb that were recently. I could also tell a variety of stories about the city of Zagreb and it is one of the problems that arises in the campaign for local elections, which is when someone leaves the current mayor's place then he, as Mr Bandic went, I, Mr Bandic, met in the campaign once and we met in the Croatian Parliament in a protocol. So any interaction was avoided, and all he did was say he was doing his normal job as mayor. So we had the opportunity to see ads in newspapers where they were on the entire page where he invites citizens and promises that all citizens in the city of Zagreb by 2020 will have drinking water which was paid for by the Zagreb Holding, then he does some other things. This is another topic that is very unusual, because when you go to the campaign with the current mayor as I did, then he said he was only doing his job, doing normal activity, using the resources of the city and the Zagreb Holding and as well he got his billboards from Zagreb posters, which is half owned by the city of Zagreb, and half owned by Agrokor, and for any poster that we were supposed to first we couldn't get, and secondly when we got it we paid a great price, so we could pay as much as it is. So that's another topic when it goes. And it seems to me that it's the elemental decency to say when the mayor goes to re-election, to take a vacation, so he does it at least the same way others do it. And not to say that in this campaign when election silence day was, my photos were on the paper even though they weren't supposed to be, and I couldn't answer that. And the DIP said it didn't matter. [[Mrs. Dark, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43544	Thank you. Mr. Maras asked for a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43545	Thank you very much. I hope that these suggestions from the ministry are recording and that we will have some suggestions based on these discussions. Absolutely candidates in the campaign need to get out of the position of not the current mayor and not the work in the city, but the position of the annual vacation, and this should be banned. So any connection to the mayor, the name of the mayor, the mayor or anything published in the media, and paid by the county should be prohibited. And not only during what Mr. Shucker said during the election promotion, but in the election year. So there is nothing for the mayor to congratulate the day of the city a month before the elections, of course in Zagreb it is not, in Zagreb is the day of the city between the two circles, which is even more rare. And then the word in all the most read media, over two pages, happy city day, your mayor paints coat of arms, all of it, it's pointless. And instead of banning it, that's what law should forbid it. The citizens of Zagreb will not blame the mayor, unless in the middle of the campaign he accidentally forgot to put his name and last name in some daily newspaper and congratulated the day of the city to the citizens. So that's what it's supposed to be. And on the other hand, I mentioned in your report there's a huge amount and I earned videos in the mayor's, something small or no, and everyone who's been listening to the radio says those days we're aware of what the ratio was, and that's not hard to establish, there are agencies that follow it, only if someone had the will to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43546	Thank you. Mrs. Katica Prpic, the secretary of state, asked for the final word at the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43547	The proposals you made have been made. I thank you for all of this constructive conversation with constructive proposals, which we will consider in the next amendments and additions or even in the new law, to process and reduce the possibility of any manipulations you have shown here. I also thank all the committee members who have helped us with their professional work and also so that, to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, who have put the amendment and who will be proposed to the Government further for adoption. So, here's a chance to really thank you for your constructive discussion and your suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43548	Thank you, too. And yet, despite your gratitude, you have two replicas. Mr. Sincic has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43549	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's what you mentioned about manipulation. I'd just like to add one example, you can call it disguised or subtle marketing. The thing is, I don't know exactly what election, I think they were local in 2009, so don't take me for a word, when it was advertised on the Internet, all over, as I recall, Mr. Kerum advertised. But even before the campaign, he shouldn't have done it, so during silence, he did not advertise himself as a candidate, but advertised Kerum, who bears the same name. However, when citizens of course see on the portals, they see in the newspaper Kerum, Kerum announced his candidacy, of course, that in this way he advertises himself and his campaign, in a similar case to Mr Bandic, as he congratulates the day of the city, but of course his picture, so please take such consideration, in view of when, therefore, some company or association bears a similar name as some of the candidates or parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43550	Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43551	Thank you very much. I am asking you to pass on to the Minister not to wait too long, but that given that the fresh and memories and information from local sources are to go into changes to the law, to organise public debate and round tables, because this is not about any subtle, so there are very plastic and now very rude ways in which certain people use not these holes, but simply the practice of inaction related to the Law on the financing of election, political activities of election promotion. So people, when we passed that law, it seems to me a decade ago, the first, the second, the careful, now believe me, these great masters who, on several occasions already have experience with it, don't experience it at all, as if it doesn't exist. What's he going to sign there, I'm saying, as a rule, they're giving authority to someone in their name to put what they put together and there's no signature on them, but they're empowering them by public record. So I'm not talking about municipalities and cities, little ones, where people really try and sometimes unconsciously commit certain violations, but those who have already played a few choices, in these great... Nothing happens, and they just act like there's no law, or one thing they know is that they're under obligation twice, once in the course of the campaign, and the other time after the campaign's over, they're gonna send a report that nobody but the date and if there's anything written in it, they're not going to check it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I ask you to respond, while these experiences are fresh and to do something in the next period, to discuss this and to pass a quality law over the next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43552	Thank you, too. All right. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met, which means Friday the conditions will be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43553	Final draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 139. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. We have Darko Nekic with us, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Start the first amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43554	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43555	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the second amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43556	The amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43557	And he also becomes an integral part of the law. And we have another amendment to the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43558	The amendment is also accepted and becomes an integral part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43559	So he becomes an integral part of the law. I thank Secretary of State Darko Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43560	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43561	We're going to vote. I am therefore voting on the final draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of the 125 votes in favour of and 1 abstention and 1 against the Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43562	The following point is: - Proposal for a Rules of Procedure to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The act is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of Article 87. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You've received reports. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Peja Grbin Vice-President of the Committee, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Article 59 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been established by the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and delegations who have the position of the working body. The Parliamentary Assembly of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation was established by the Paris Charter for New Europe at a summit in Paris in 1990. It was organised by the final resolution of the Madrid Conference of Parliamentary Leaders of the participating countries in 1991. Some of the main tasks of the parliamentary assembly include strengthening and consolidation of the democratic institutions of the OSCE participating countries, developing institutional structures, protecting human rights, better co-operation between the existing OSCE institutions and contributing to promoting conflict resolution mechanisms. As one of the forms of international activities of the Croatian Parliament and participation in international parliamentary organisations in the Croatian Parliament, the delegation of the Croatian Parliament works as a permanent delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. In view of the above, and given the important tasks of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, it is proposed that the Permanent Assembly of the Croatian Parliament at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly has the position of the permanent working body of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43564	Thank you, Mr. coat of arms. So two committees of which one of the proposings discussed the point. Second Legislative Committee, would you like to take the President's word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first one is Mr. Robert Dolnjak. He's gone. He's losing his word. The second is Ivan Willibor Sincic has it and has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43565	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. There was an invitation a few months ago to all clubs to make their proposals for amendments to the Rules of Procedure during the time of Mr. Petrov's presidency, something was going on and on about how there was an overload on that simply gave up. This change is some kind of general change much broader, here we see only two articles in this proposal today. However, on those two articles, I gave one of them an amendment, and you probably already got it on the bench. So the amendment deals with my initiative, which I announced for the establishment of a single working body, I called it the Committee on the Future, modelled by the Finnish Parliament, the Parliament of the Republic of Finland. As I wrote in the amendment, it is proposed to set up a new parliamentary committee modelling the long-standing practice of the Finnish Parliament in which one of the most respected committees since 1993 is the Committee on the Future. Mr.... the Finnish ambassador assured me that it was one of the best, most respected committees in the Finnish Parliament. Otherwise, the Finnish Parliament has a significantly smaller number of committees than the Croatian Parliament does. The main tasks of this committee will be to explore the impact of scientific and technological achievements on wider social movements. The latest achievements in these areas should be integrated into the long-term development strategies of the Republic of Croatia and a quality assessment of the country's socio-economic developments should be drawn up at the same time. It's part of my explanation for the amendment. What's this about? There are many trends in the world today, there are trends in the economy, such as the issue of basic income, crypto currency, virtual currency trends in technology such as artificial intelligence, automation, galloping the development of renewable energy sources that have become or become cheaper than conventional sources, issues of new materials. In medicine, these are trends, let's say individual approaches to the patient completely, in education they are learning by means of virtual or enhanced reality, in ecology and protection of the nature of climate change, in transport, for example vehicles without drivers, in the issue of Uber that we have not yet responded to by eating the role of Uber well or bad at this time and many other areas. So the world goes very fast forward, and our consciousness of our society, our institutions, our representatives towards my court and my colleagues' court is very low, so many of these processes we have never discussed, many of them are not even aware. The consultation with the profession, so if you want HAZU, if you want experts from the private sector, it's small, so in a political discourse, these are topics that only tangentally touch this committee or that committee. And I'm afraid the world has run over us, that the world has gone forward. There's not much of me in this assembly the last few days after I run the Immunological Institute Investigation Commission. The Immunological Institute was one center of excellence that we lost. I was bitter when I learned that out of the former 400 employees today only one doctor of science works at the Immunological Institute, only one colleague and colleague. It's a degradation of science and profession. We could talk about the Naval Institute, which is also ahead of bankruptcy, I think the example is countless. I remember a case a few years ago when a young entrepreneur made one project and presented it to the ministry and explained how he would finance it. One way of funding was cited croutoning and representatives of the ministry or agency did not even know what it was and did not recognise it as a legitimate way of financing, and the whole world is already working on a number of platforms that way. So, and that's when we were run over, today's situation is a little bit better, at least listening to the HAMG report on boards. Therefore, we must be prepared, as some members of the political elite, we must welcome all these trends, discuss them, bring here the Croatian Assembly to the working body of people from the university, abroad, if necessary, to guide us, to warn us about what awaits us, where the world is going, to follow trends, to ride on trends, and what is most important certainly there are places where we can take both science and production, you have great examples throughout Croatia. I can only say from Karlovec HS product say the most esteemed, best guns in the world. There are numerous examples of creative individuals, successful companies, but in globally, a picture of Croatia, I'm afraid is a loser, wherever I turn lost the slow, this, what, all kind of blackness, negative. The world is moving forward, our policy is lagging behind. One anacronism. What do we do? We're dealing with the commission's working body to deal with the past. Okay, let's finally and debate all these issues from the past, let's let this committee deal with both Tito and Pavelic, and whatever it takes, I don't mind but we have a committee, we have a working body that looks forward. Let's focus our energies on the future, make our Croatia a winning country. Here's to say Singapore, except for Finland also established regular bodies like that to follow trends. Let's say one of the committees is a committee on the future of economics that therefore follows trends in the world and watches where their city, the state of Singapore, will be placed in these trends where they can be best, in which they need to change the laws, change education, so adaptation to a constantly changing and changing world. Here's an expert group in Canada also estimated, otherwise they're dealing with my profession of automation that in the next 10 years about 40% of current jobs in Canada will disappear due to automation and robotics. Where are all these people going to work? These are the questions that touch us. We're not some industrial force, we're not G7 like Canada, but that touches us. You and those and these trends that I've listed and a number of others who are about to come. So here I have entered the stage of another of my initiatives, so I suggest that another working body be added to this article 59. Let's focus our energies on the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43566	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, the first Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Sincic, I would probably support your idea under some other circumstances, but today I can't. But do you know why? Because you only suggested that the list of working bodies be increased by another working body and then you did not, for example, define in your amendment what is the scope of the work body's activities, in Article 62 for the Committee on Legislatives, in Article 64 for the Committee on European Affairs, etc., you did not define in your amendment what is the scope of the work body's activities, you did not define its composition in the order of parliamentary representatives, you did not define how many members there are, you did not define how many external members, etc. So, the only thing you've done is propose to increase the list of committees by one more and you haven't even mentioned everything else. So, first you learn how to submit the amendment and then you get everyone else's hands on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43568	Thank you, too. The answer to the line, Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43569	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So the first thing I was saying was that all the changes in the Rules of Procedure, they only changed two articles here. So I can't change what the applicant hasn't changed, I can change Article 1 or Article 2. I've been changing Article 1 here, so I'm putting the board's name on the board list. And as you have listed these articles, I cannot change them, I cannot change Article 60 or add an article, because the applicant did not propose it first. So I can only change what they suggested, I can't change Article 3. So the procedure prevented me from doing so, but I expect you soon to make a thorough amendment to the Rules of Procedure, so that's when I will give a complete answer in my first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43570	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43571	Thank you very much. Mr. Sincic, the fact that you can't change it with an amendment like you said, but here's my suggestion if you get to the end of this debate and it will still take 10 minutes until Miro Bulj gives his speech, do as you did and complete the amendment by concluding that the Croatian Parliament is bound to process and complete these things that his colleague Grbin said within 30 or 60 days. Or since you're taking a break now, you can put on 90 days, so we'll do it right at the 1st session when it starts again at 9 a.m. after the summer break. So do as you have done and make another conclusion that is binding on the Croatian Parliament that what you did not predict because you couldn't do. So on the other hand, I will also support you in that sense that such a committee is defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43572	There's no answer. An individual debate, Mr. Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. coat of arms isn't here. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met, which means Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43573	We're moving on to the next proposal. This is the Rules of Procedure on the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the proposed Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. The amendment was filed by the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. Željko Reiner, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43574	So the amendment is not accepted because the amendment introduces a new institute, a new committee that is not detailed or debated or conceptually designed to the end. Therefore, if a broader debate were to be held, and if there was a consensus to establish a new committee in the Assembly, then, of course, it could be talked about, such a form of amendment with this argument cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43575	Will anyone in the name of... Here you go, Ivan Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43576	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My amendment, we discussed it the other day, came in quite a small hour, so it's about the Committee on the Future, it's a committee that is missing from the Croatian Parliament, which lacks Croatian politics. It is modelled by the Finnish Parliament, by committees such as Singapore, it deals with constant adaptation and analysis of various world trends in politics, agriculture, science, technology, such as the development of renewable energy sources by galloping, such as automation, such as basic income issues, all of what is consciousness in the Croatian people and Croatian politics so far low. I wanted to create a new working body that would discuss it, that we would not be caught by such trends as Uber found us, but for years the government has been inconsistencies between classic commercial taxis and Ubers, because we weren't ready, socially or politically to wait for that moment, if we had a committee like this, we could have solved it a long time ago. As far as conceptual development is concerned, yes, it's not worked out. Why? Because the amendment itself had two articles, and since it is a second reading, it is only possible to modify those two articles, and in those two articles they cannot provide. However, if you look at the development of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe or the delegation of the Croatian Assembly in the NATO Assembly, and this with the OSCE added, look at the work of this Rules of Procedure, so it is not a very strong argument. Several months ago, before the misdemeanor, there was an intensification to make a general amendment to the Rules of Procedure, a little larger than two articles, if it comes to it, I hope it will, I will restart the initiative. I think it is something that Croatian MPs need, too, to catch a trend with the world, not to be stuck somewhere. I'm asking for a vote and I'm asking those who think it's a good idea to vote at least with abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43577	Let's vote on this proposal. I find that the proposal has not received enough votes, so we will set up a future committee, probably. I am now voting on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to stress that the adoption of this act requires half the majority of all MPs, i.e. 76 in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 119 for and 1 abstentions have been adopted by the Rules of Procedure on the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43578	The following point: - Report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2013 to 2106 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 130. Consumer protection laws. The material was delivered to the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Ms. Natasha Mikush, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43579	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. So before you is the Report on the Implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2013 to 2106. It is therefore adopted by the basis of Article 130 of the Consumer Protection Act, which is, therefore, also the Government and the Ministry of Economy as a Resolute Ministry, which is the programme itself, and is required to report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of measures under the consumer protection programme itself. In that period, therefore, a number of measures and activities have been implemented to raise the level of consumer protection in Croatia, which were aimed at creating a legal framework, improving market surveillance and education and informing consumers. In part of the legal framework in 2014, the Consumer Protection Act implementing the Consumer Rights Directive has been adopted, rules on distance purchase have been laid down, especially through the Internet and outside the business premises of traders, thus equating rules in all Member States and contributing to facilitating the business of traders and increasing consumer confidence. In 2016, an Alternative Dispute Resolution Act was adopted. This is particularly important for the protection of consumers in the digital environment, i.e. for those consumers who buy just online, ensure and resolve the dispute in the same way, alternative. In part of market surveillance, therefore, measures have been taken against traders who have violated consumer rights and have removed dangerous products from the market, all of which, of course, contributed to the level of protection of consumer rights and security in Croatia. Since the safety of products placed on the market for all of us as consumers is therefore of paramount importance in those cases where surveillance has been found that the products placed on the market pose a risk to the safety and health of consumers, inspectors have taken appropriate administrative measures, including the withdrawal of the same products from the market or the ban on placing them on the market. A total of 41 000 such controls were carried out during this reporting period. The report itself also includes data per year. As regards consumer education and information, it is necessary to say that one of the main backbones of consumer protection policy is to provide them with better information about their rights and the possibilities for their protection. Therefore, the Ministry of Economy has introduced and used a number of tools to raise the level of awareness and protection of consumers, i.e. the protection of their rights. Through the project Consumer consultation financed from the national budget at the annual level, four consultations, in Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Pula, were financed through the project. It has also been established through the work of the central consumer information system, allowing citizens to request, through one-stop mail, an explanation of the rules, advice or to provide instructions to the market inspection and throughout the period from 2013 to 2016, a total of 12 thousand 331 tips were provided to consumers. The Register "Don't Call", whose purpose is to protect consumers from unwanted contacts and offers via telephone or SMS messages by traders and by the end of June 2017, has been registered in the Register "Don't Call" nearly 24 thousand phone numbers. In 2013, the European Consumer Centre was established as part of the European Consumer Centre network and is helping consumers and giving advice, providing information on cross-border trade. The Ministry of Economy has been involved in strengthening consumer rights in cooperation with other state administration bodies, primarily regulatory bodies such as the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, the Civil Aviation Agency, the Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the Water Council, which carried out a number of activities in the course of their activities just to raise awareness and protect the economic interests of consumers. The report shall give a detailed overview of these segments of work on consumer rights protection. We believe that only implementing the measures indicates the progress of the existing consumer protection system, but it also opens up the possibility for us and ultimately gives us a commitment to further develop consumer protection policy while keeping the following key. That there is a need to further develop and improve the development of market surveillance especially in the context of digital environment and digital trade. Furthermore, to develop simple tools for consumer information and education, so that they are understandable and easily accessible to all citizens. Work further on the independence and representativeness of consumer protection associations, more to be included in the same process of unit of local and regional self-government, continue to strengthen regulators in protecting the economic interests of consumers. Here, so this is a summary of the report, of course, if there are questions, we're available for answers to the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43580	Thank you, too. Yet 11 MPs gathered for football enough. The first means now, Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. He's giving up. Mr. Miro Bulj, representative of the Most Independent Lists. He's giving up. Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash agrees. Here you go. By the time you get here, the club of independent MPs and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43581	Dear State Secretarys, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have two, so the rest are boys. In front of us is the report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2013-2016. The club of independent MPs and HSU will support this report. Unfortunately, he came to the agenda like this at the end of the p and has us relatively few, but it is a document that is extremely interesting and I would conclude for our citizens extremely and important. In 2013, we established and created a way to protect consumers. And now that you look at this document a little bit other than the regulatory frameworks that have been defined, it has shown what they were doing in that area of individual inspections, which they have identified and what the problems have been. So, when it comes to market inspection, then you can absolutely see what processes were in Croatia from 2013 to these days, and we can see in which part was significant progress. So when it all started together, it was seen that the big problems were related to Internet sales, i.e. Internet trade, and that the big problems were related to the actions of some, therefore, to certain reductions that were unregulated, that in different ways individual products were reduced. And now that we are already in 2017, we have an opportunity to see how it is regulated and how it is defined. Why do I think this report is important? For the simple reason to see the processes that took place in Croatia, processes where Croatia not only aligned with certain EU regulations, but processes where we have learned to be better, to be more defined, to apply regulations. We changed the regulations in accordance with the needs that were so this is particularly important regarding this part of the product reduction, that it was not known how to define it. Then there are several important things that have been tied up and that have been partially neglected, but they have equally proved important. So, when Croatia joined the EU, it needed to regulate a number of things with its directives in different areas. One of the things she needed to regulate is about construction products. I'm really going to take a few sentences or it's already too late so let's try to really get past all the points of the agenda. When we entered the EU and the construction product-related directive, it is then defined in the way in which part of the EU directive is regulated, and part is left to each Member State to regulate itself dependent on the specific conditions and ways it has. And we had a few things back then. One of the things was a big public hack and there were big stories, it was tied to plastics, where at one point, plastics from one of the EU members came to our market. But since Croatia is partly a continental country, and in part the Mediterranean country did not respond unfortunately either to the Mediterranean area or to the continental area. In the area of continental snowfall, they were not allowed at all for conditions in snow, and in the Mediterranean part the wind blew. So all of a sudden, something that came into our market absolutely when it was significantly cheaper than our products didn't fit the market. And thanks to the work of the inspection and everything else, we managed to regulate that part. Equally, construction products outside EU countries came to our market at one point, which were also connected to certain pipes and certain products and nets that were used under light concretes, and we quickly regulated that. However, there is also something to do with the work of the Sanitary Inspectorate. We have had opportunities to see and recently we have had opportunities to see non-quality products that come to the Croatian market thanks to the Minister of Agriculture that I really use this opportunity no matter how much I commend him, who responded and showed what problems we have and these problems we should point to. I expected Mr. Bulj to discuss, discuss consumer protection related to antennas whose networks are being placed on facilities where the Sanitary inspection had control, where it had to determine what kind of radiation it was. In this context, we had to change both the EU's regulation and regulation, and in a number of cases, it proved that in some cases it was radiation, that in some cases it was not. And it's the same protection of consumers. And there's a great deal of significance there too. The same way we had the opportunity to see recently unquality water delivered in certain settlements, where the Sanitary inspection also established, or defined the way in which it, in what state, is the water. And that's actually for you, that consumer protection goes so far as to look at the bills that are being delivered, the bills that you've been exposed to water consumption that you haven't spent or any service you haven't received. So it is extremely good that a document like this comes before the Croatian Parliament, it is good to discuss it, it is good that few of us together see what is inside and see what elements consumers should be protected in. But about what's important, it's also important that we see education from this. Education is extremely important, extremely important. So, our citizens often have some kind of problem they don't know where to turn, they don't know which door to knock on. This education started there somewhere in 2014, with the opening and info centres. One of the first things was in the city of Zagreb where it was opened that people know where to come and tell me a water bill was laid out in the city of Zagreb at 900 kuna. Everyone else got 200 kunas. What's the problem? It's all consumer protection. What I really praise is one quality document, this is one report from which a series of things can be seen, a report from which we can conclude the progress Croatia has made in protecting primarily and fundamentally its consumers since 2013-2016, which must be done on education. It's always good to use all possible media to inform them, where a man can come with a remark, where he can come and say, I bought a product that expired? Where can he come and say I bought a cement that doesn't meet our standards? Where he can come and say I'm living in a building where someone installed it for me, and I'm afraid so. So it's really good, we in this House spend a lot of energy on, when any legal proposals are made. We spend a lot of energy talking ideologically about who's on which side. But part of the energy that we all need to spend together, and when a document like this comes, consumer protection, it's all our citizens and citizens, and we use this pay phone to inform them, where I can inform myself about your rights, is their rights much higher than they really think they are, that they can protect their rights, I'm not telling you now maybe even faster than usual, because I'm trying really, really, another two points of the agenda, I'm putting it on. I always like to tell the story of life, because they tell a lot more. Ten years ago, a cousin of ours from America came to visit us. And she went to a store in Zagreb and bought some kind of helmets that were so decorative, because it was some kind of a sixth tie. And she came home and said, "I don't like those paws anymore, she was walking around in them, they're not good to me, and I'm gonna get them back." I'm the one who said what you were going to do to get it back. He says I'll go back, I bought for my money, they're not pretty anymore, they're uncomfortable, I'll pay you back. At the time, it was unthinkable for us. Try to remember 10 years ago. Today, it's premonitional. And today, indeed, we should use this pay phone and say, we, our role is to actually see through this report where we are, to inform our consumers because they have the right to object for their money, have the right to get goods that are right and to get and service that is right. We will support this report and indeed, it is already too late, but I am using this time to praise the report that has been well done and this is one of the topics that really merits and one perhaps a better time in the Assembly when we are a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43582	Thank you, too. You have one replica. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43583	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, you mentioned that consumers are damaged in terms of base stations or antenna pillars that are being placed on their minds, without a building permit, without the consent of neighbors, without a spatial plan, they need nothing, except to use that space, to usurp it first, to exploit our space, and essentially to the harm of our citizens and neighbors and for the sake of radiation, and of course because of the distortion, it looks like the best, which is our place to manage well. While these same consumers have no right to expand the balcony on one building, they must have agreement, have numerous documents and the damages are huge. I agree with you and you were just a minister, I was then one of the activists who was together with the Croatian Association for the Protection of Magnetic Emissions, who also warned you to go into the amendments to the Law on Baseline Stations, not to be the Law on Single Buildings as if it were a pillar of worthlessness, but rather, look where they are placed on the damage and space and citizens and I fully agree with you, and I also told Minister Kušević, while he was Minister, performed the duty as your successor, I gave him complete what needs to be changed which laws and regulations. Of course, even at the Ministry of Health, but that's another topic, it's a topic, where our consumers are also threatened by teleoperators, who, of course, have no mercy in Croatia, and from those countries where they came from, do not work that way, but pay everything and all obligations must be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43584	Thank you. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43585	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague Bulj, I did not happen to mention this very subject, because I am using this opportunity, so to speak loudly and clearly in this Assembly, if something is defined by the Regulation on simple works that does not require a locational, or building permit, it is a condition to be planned by documents of spatial arrangement, i.e. to be planned by a spatial plan. Equally, it is a condition that must satisfy all other regulations and obtain all other special conditions. In particular, when it comes to base stations, so these are the objects being set, they must be planned by a document of spatial arrangement. Their location must be defined, and when it comes to antennae connections on buildings, which cause the problem related to radiation and everything else, they must be planned by documents of spatial arrangement that are valid in a given space, whether it is the spatial plan of the municipality or the city or... Therefore, the fact that something is defined by the Simple Works Regulation does not mean that it is not planned by documents of spatial arrangement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If someone put it past that, then they're setting it up and they're gonna have to move. Similarly, what you need to know is that the whole EU regulation, which we are trying to achieve, and we are still much stricter than the rest of the EU countries, has much more work, which can be done without local and construction permits. So in particular, when it comes to the balcony, if, for example, the balcony is closed today, and it's not for a change, the purposes of giving the balcony, or the log, remain log, but it's closed, it doesn't need permission, some things just need a useful permit to regulate it properly. So that regulation adopted by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction made sure, in accordance with other EU regulations, that we somehow loosen procedures for which no local, or building permit is required.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43586	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Šipic, Club of HDZ Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43587	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the promoters, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Yes, there is indeed one important report in front of us on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme in 2013-2016. Although this report covers a period of four years ago, the importance of the topic still requires that a report be submitted on this subject. It is good to point out, and it also says in the report that the National Consumer Protection Programme is a strategic document of the Republic of Croatia in a consumer protection policy that sets out objectives, measures, priority areas, and activities in implementing consumer protection policy for a period of four years. It is also good to recall that the National Consumer Protection Programme for the years mentioned was adopted in July 2013 in this House. The Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts of the then Ministry of Economy as a resolute body for consumer protection policy in the Republic of Croatia carried out activities related to the implementation of consumer protection policy and the coordination of the work of all consumer safety holders in relation to the implementation of the national programme. The main objective of consumer protection policy in the Republic of Croatia is to improve the quality of life of citizens and is part of the EU's strategic objective of ensuring that all EU citizens enjoy high standards of consumer protection as well as Croatia. The aim of the analysis of the implementation of the national programme is to identify the real situation in the area of consumer protection or to assess whether the consumer protection system has been improved compared to the previous period. Although the process of building a Croatian consumer protection system has not yet been achieved since the four years mentioned in the Republic of Croatia in this area has not yet been completed. Only the report is divided into several chapters, some of which are the regulatory framework, the institutional framework, the supervisory market. It should be pointed out that the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme resulted in awareness raising of their rights, which is the relative objective of this programme. In order to achieve that consumer protection, it is adapted to European rules, consumer advice is organised, instruments are set up for easier dispute resolution, the right to return to an invalid product, high safety standards as well as consumer information rights on product content and quality, etc. The expansion of Internet trade in the common market has affected the need to create a single regulatory framework for all EU members that provides legal certainty for consumers and traders, thus contributing to the creation of an incentive environment for cross-border trade, reducing business costs and higher additional values in the economy. The aim of the harmonisation of consumer protection rules was to remove barriers to the free movement of goods and services in the common market arising from different rules in the Member States, thus restoring the confidence of consumers and traders in the functioning of the common market and thereby taking advantage of it. Equal operating rules at EU level on the one hand would contribute to reducing business costs and opening up space for the development and growth of economic activities, small and medium-sized enterprises, which would provide the opportunity to seek business opportunities in other Member States, and on the other hand would restore consumer confidence and encourage the use of all the advantages of the common market. The result was the adoption of a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on consumer rights as early as 2011. a time limit has been set within which the consumer may change his/her mind regarding the conclusion of a distance sale contract or the sale of extra-business premises for 14 days as well as a one-sided termination of the contract in relation to the return of goods and money, and the obligations of traders and consumers and cases where the consumer changes his/her mind regarding the conclusion of a distance or sale contract outside the business premises, and even in cases where the consumer decides to unilaterally terminate the contract after the goods are used to a greater extent than is necessary to determine its characteristics and functioning. This is regulated by the Consumer Protection Act, which has, in addition to the above mentioned, improved some of the provisions which have been shown by practice that a great violation of consumer rights refers to provisions on action sales, reduction and sale. We know that a large number of our consumers are currently buying during the seasonal downsizing of stocks and sales, and unfortunately some trade chains have been exploiting it to the detriment of end-users. Therefore, it was necessary to edit this area more closely. The report also shows the need to strengthen the role of local self-government units in implementing consumer protection policies, in particular in the consultation section. It is therefore prescribed that all units of local self-government in their areas are obliged to conduct education and to bring as much knowledge as possible to their consumers. The harmonisation of the starting date of the downturn season with the business bang of traders as well as certain types of goods is governed by the Regulation on the conditions and manner of implementation of the December 2015 seasonal reductions. We know that then deadlines are set so that more or less everyone knows that this deadline lasts no more than 60 days including December and summer time. Furthermore, over the last decades, the European Commission has implemented a comprehensive development of legal gains in the field of consumer protection, including the revision of the Travel Packages Directive, the holiday packages, the packages resulting from the adoption of a new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. As tourism is one of the largest branches of the economy for the Republic of Croatia and taking into account the immeasurable importance of adequate regulation and equalisation of the rights of passengers and obligations of travel organisers when buying a package of arrangements within the single European market, the Republic of Croatia has been very actively involved in the revision of the directive in question, taking into account the interests of passengers and consumers and travel organisers in order to reconcile the interests of these entities in the most appropriate way. Furthermore, in October 2014 the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Economy within the Department of Trade and the Internal Market, the goods, services and consumer protection sector was established a consumer protection policy service that proposes and implements the policy of all consumers, proposes measures to improve the efficiency of the overall consumer protection system in the area of the Republic of Croatia and implements whether everything with the right of EU acquis is in the field of consumer protection, monitors the achievement of the objectives and tasks set out in the policy strategy, consumer protection, etc. The ministry therefore focused its activities on continuous education and information to the public on all relevant consumer issues in order to facilitate consumer compliance with many complex sectoral rules and to enable more effective exercise of their rights. It should welcome the continued development of a central consumer information system that is possible for all in one place to request explanations of regulations and procedures, advice or to provide instructions for the application for inspection supervision related to the implementation of their consumer rights. Furthermore, the report reads that not many consumer protection associations have been forgotten, which have been granted grants to advise, inform and educate consumers themselves. It is well noted that the inclusion of local, local and regional self-government units in these processes has been of paramount importance since there has been no adequate development of local policy and consumer protection in the past period. The 2014 Consumer Protection Act strengthened the role and gave emphasis to the local community to coordinate and coordinate it. It should certainly be recalled that the National Consumer Protection Council is an advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and one of the most important policy holders of consumer protection. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Employers' Association, Commercial Court, Consumer Protection Associations, Local Self-Government Units, etc. As part of the National Council, four committees chaired by representatives of the regulatory bodies in the Council, such as electronic communications for financial services, energy, water services, etc., have been established. Furthermore, what is important is the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period of the mentioned years of market surveillance, the area of consumer protection for the reporting period was planned in the State Inspectorate, and we heard that the State Inspectorate of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of January 2014 on the establishment and part-round of ministries and other central bodies, so he stopped working with the work of the State Inspectorate and part of the affairs related to inspection tasks, consumer protection became the responsibility of the ministry. In order not to conclude, the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2013-2016 created the conditions for Croatia's citizens as consumers to make economically justified and informed decisions. This report indicates that all stakeholders were actively involved in achieving the basic objective, which is to raise consumer awareness of their rights, adapting to European consumer protection rules. The Republic of Croatia has removed market barriers and integrated the national market into the common market with products and services of equal standards of safety and quality as well as with equal standards of consumer protection. It sought to make the consumer a centre of interest for entrepreneurs. Today, special attention is paid to consumers in the Republic of Croatia and increased attention. Consumer consultation has been organised, already mentioned here by the secretary of state at national level, and improved instruments have been established to facilitate the resolution of complaints such as a single consumer phone and a central consumer information system. Measures have also been taken to ensure the consumer’s freedom to choose products and services, the right to return an invalid product, high safety and standards, as well as the right to information on product content and quality, the right to clear and transparent contractual provisions and to protect against misleading and aggressive business practices. Measures have also been taken to ensure the protection of consumer rights on travel in the country and abroad, as well as measures to prevent and violate consumer rights in cross-border trade and to achieve greater security rights. It is good to recall that a European Consumer Centre was established within the Ministry in 2013 to address consumer complaints during cross-border purchases. Consumer and trader education has sensitized the public about the importance and need of consumer protection and with a view to raising the overall level of awareness. The implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2013-2016 points to significant progress in the existing system of protection and opens the possibility of developing policies and protecting consumers in areas where certain shifts are to be made. Following the above mentioned club, the HDZ will adopt a report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2013-2016, which was also done by the parent board for the economy that met and proposed that the Assembly adopt this report. Here are the respected colleagues who are here, and colleagues and, of course, representatives, this report should be accepted, given that on 145 pages we have received a full picture of the work and implementation of the national programme, although Mrs. Mrak-Taritash invited us as much as possible to be in the assembly and I will agree with one part of her presentation when she said that this topic could have been in the earlier hours because indeed this topic is very current because, finally, we are all expensive consumers and there really concerns all of us. Here I thank all of you who have listened and believe that consumption will grow in Croatia but also that consumer rights will also be in line with these directives and regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43588	Thank you, too. We all think it was supposed to be discussed in the early hours, but Mr. Bulj came forward for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43589	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You said that you should return to this national programme, which is an attempt at report and work, but the fact is that the obligation is an example, I will mention specifically, you read it extensively, in the installation of the divisor was essentially a consumer delusion because just two days before the dismissed ministers of the Most, the study of the Ministry of Energy came where insolvencies, meaning the splitr at the expense of citizens. Therefore, political elites have also tried to benefit from interesting lobbys at the expense of citizens and divisions, it is evident that your coalition partner has done this very well and based on consumer damage, so I would ask the representative here to check well how much damage you have to consumers based on your studies in the Ministry of Energy. And here I have pointed out that we should be more in the House here in front of the opposition we are strong forces me and Mr. Thunder, we hope... A late message to the people, and also since we come from the same area, an example of electricity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know, when an old infrastructure falls on a wire low voltage and we have the largest production of the cetin end of electricity, the Cetina River itself, 40% of the electricity, that when it falls on a branch or when it's clogged in Osijek, the power goes out, even when it turns on some TV can't turn on the computer. Therefore, huge damages are done to these citizens, HEP is not responding, and it is well exploiting our river Cetina, the Cetina region, even now we have some projects that are at risk and water, such as The thermal power plant threatens water and air, what we have, so we have something to fight for, literally human. Let me just finish... [[But time's up, Mr. Bull, I'm sorry.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43590	You have an individual discussion later, so you'll be able to make up for it. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43591	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bulj, yes, I've personally known a lot since I've been in local self-government for many years, you know that. And it's really a huge problem, but you also know that this is going to be a question, and I often refer it to the directors of institutions like HEP and we do it all the time and pressure them, etc. Our Chetino area that you mentioned is a huge area, and it's really invested there, but it's not enough. And as for this work and the strategy that you mentioned, I am neither relevant nor able to talk about it much. Indeed, what is not in harmony with the law and something that is not right is certainly neither good nor supportive nor in that direction should be supported. I have to admit openly that it's not at all a subject to me, nor am I at all relevant in order to be able to comment on the strategy and what you mentioned, but okay, I know what you're alluding to but I can't get into a jet that implies some other things. Since you have touched part of the problem, consumers have been threatened with a number of issues as regards the delivery of HEP, but this is a question that is addressed by another institution rather than the Croatian Parliament, and the institutions mentioned here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43592	Thank you, too. Mr. Stjepan Curaj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43593	I would like to thank the Vice President, the honored representatives of the motionors, colleagues and colleagues. So I'll try as short as possible, as concisely as possible about the report in question. Namely, the HNS Club will, of course, support the report in question. In short, I would like to personally draw attention to some practices, however, certainly that the main objective of policy protection in both the Republic of Croatia and the EU directives is to improve the quality of life of citizens and that something if we need to debate first of all is that our citizens are always pushing as consumers and here we know very well that spending is also a major part, an integral part of GDP. What is mentioned here in the report is certainly what we know from the experience that some of the biggest complaints, what was most regulated in the past, is a violation of consumer rights, i.e. provisions on action sales of reductions and sales, and of course costs and all disputes on telephone telecommunications. What I would like to point out is for sure to be highlighted, in fact, is the prevention and counselling itself, so I can only conclude that almost all of the districts have not gone too far. Honor the exceptions. Let's say that Zadar County has invested over the past 120,000 kuna and all other counties less than 100,000. So, of course, the city of Zagreb and more than all of them together. So here we need as stated in the report that around 20 consumer associations operate. And my suggestion is to look at examples of good practice and other EU members, and I would like to point out the Netherlands first. This level of consciousness is much more developed by them, and they are through their consumer association, in which they pay membership fees, and they are all members, and therefore a member gets certain benefits that apply not only to counselling, certain books, informing their rights, but also to help. There are several examples of peaceful dispute resolution in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of crafts etc. However, they have a system in which, as a member, they receive free legal aid, free counseling. In the case of a dispute, their lawyers represent. But not just that. This association actively participates in lobbying precisely in the production and proposal of different legal proposals to benefit consumers. So that non-governmental sector is much more developed there. Here I say 20 associations act all in Croatia, more or less successfully with certain budgets. There are a million and 300 thousand kunas in the mandate of projects, information and so on. I think, of course, in consulting the consumers themselves, but I think that in parallel to prevention, we should go to strengthen that non-governmental part of the sector as far as the part is concerned when the problem arises. Who's handling it? In what way? How can I give citizens as best and as adequate protection as possible? You also mentioned, only briefly will I end up in your presentation and protection related to agricultural products. Of course, it always seems to us that our producers have to meet everything and everything, especially those, since I come from Slavonia, they autochton where they're in line, and they're looking at every day a little bit, a little bit of stuff that's being imported. I think we should always have there not only as regards the purchase of these import products, but as regards the purchase of agricultural products which are then further processed and placed on the market through some service whether restaurant or similar production of a secondary or secondary product with basic raw materials. We should take a look at the same thing, because we don't have any declaration, we don't have anything. So only with this side just as little to ensure let's say more it goes from a health aspect to a consumer of agricultural products. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43594	Thank you very much. He was looking for a replica of Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43595	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Curaj, here's the question I asked Mr. Šipić, he didn't answer me. It is therefore clear in terms of consumer protection in the case of divisors that citizens are needlessly damaged by these investments, huge damages and for the benefit of individuals and groups of stakeholders involved in this activity. I don't know what your attitude is, I haven't heard. So we're specifically talking about the problem of consumers in the case of divisors. And the fact is that two days means the results of the analysis on the divisors are not, so they weren't acceptable, i.e. They weren't worth it. Therefore, I am very interested in your answer as well as the example of the wind power plant i.e. Subsidized renewable energy sources where our consumers also have to pay more expensive electricity, that electricity that essentially gives money to our i.e. to foreign investors, and, of course, to the harm of repeating our citizens again, i.e. consumer. So I'm asking you what your attitude is about that, because there is no Ivan Vrdoljak. I've often asked him that, he's never given me an answer, and now everything's visible. It is visible by the coalition within two days before the release of the ministers of the Mosts, i.e. the breakup with our former coalition partner, that it was done in fact very high-quality, very coincidences when the analysis of the results of the divisions came out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43596	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43597	Dear fellow Bull, I see you've found a victim on me now. But no problem. I'll say what I know after you asked me to answer what I know. I don't know what study you mean. I also remember in the study of the Institute of Hrvoje Požar at the time of Minister Panenic, that she was justified in the cost of the divisors. Of course, I'm aware that after that, one study came back that showed that it wasn't. As far as I can remember, it was a step in which the liberalisation of the heat market, i.e. heat, would be prolonged. Because we know that the subsidisation our citizens use must be a solution, it can't be forever and it was one of those things that was shown to be working on this topic and buying time. As far as these wind power plants are concerned, I say again, you've come across who you're going to ask, of course, but it doesn't matter. What I do know is that as far as that said fee is concerned, if I'm not mistaken, Mr... He became a minister at the end of 2012 and that it was part of 31.12 and energy year to regulate it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that, there was nothing more controversial. So everything that's been made since the war was during that period in 2012. So I can't tell you any further, but I'm always free for further questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43598	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Bulj's individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43599	Thank you very much, very much, very well-respected representatives of the ministry. Here we are, they also mentioned everything very important, meaning the report National Consumer Protection Programme, which would include, in essence, protecting all citizens of the Republic of Croatia from unfair meanings both in trade and in all the products they pay with. In fact, what they pay to have that quality they pay for that amount. So, I mentioned earlier, here's the first thing I'm going to mention here is that the decision on wind power plants is that. Subsidized by renewed sources, adopted in 2014, means this subsidy, excuse me, 2015 for the last meeting of the Government, is under the social criteria underlined by it, that item of the agenda. At the last session of Milanovic's government and at the proposal of Minister Vrdoljak. So you know. These are huge damages to our country this year, it takes a billion kunas only in the budget to find, our citizens would not pay, and in 3 years, the next 5 billion kunas. With this, if we could protect our consumers from paying for it, if in all Croatia for 5 billion kuna in 3 years, we could have put solar, solar power plants on the roofs and reached that assigned quota and that family would have been rich. So, all the buildings, all the houses could be covered, and this way we're going to pay the subsidized, renewable energy sources we're going to pay the foreigners, and to the detriment of our consumers, and that's one of the key problems that we haven't been protecting our potential for years, but our money goes into the pockets of foreigners. In the pockets of strangers, and the fundamental decision is this part. As far as the divisors are concerned, the topic is current, we also saw that it is not cost-effective, based on an analysis that has been delivered 2 days in the Ministry of the Environment, there is also a former minister, he is familiar with that, that it is invaluable, meaning it was setting up a divisor, huge damage to our citizens, of course for the benefit of individuals, for the benefit of companies and for the benefit of groups that have been well charged through political or... That's why I'm sorry that Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak isn't here, he might do it better, in more detail, he might explain, if he hadn't, that's what I've asked him before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact that wherever we touch consumers are at risk. We can start with a teleoperator, so base stations. The law for them of the Athenian pillars is not valid. Environmentally numerous activist associations, i.e. The Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions has warned for years, there was also former Minister Mrs Taritas, who was familiar with this, I was actively involved in these activities, prevention and stopping, endangerment, first of all space, and second of health. Base stations were set up in a way that neither neighbours nor local self-government nor anything needed. Besides, they'd find somewhere to rent space, put a base station under your window, your child, regardless of the radiation. The Department of Health didn't bring in any regulations. The Ministry of Construction acted as if the Ministry of Construction did not behave in Sweden or Germany where these teleoperators came from, so they damaged our space, did not plan, invested in the infrastructure, where base stations should be located 400 meters minimum according to the World Health Organization research, where the pests are enormous of these base stations are absolutely not respected in Croatia but are exclusively suitable. Without any permission or consent, the base station was placed where they thought of it. And if people were to stand up at that moment, people would be brought in, people would be burdened, no matter what the base station of the man under the window, and what a man fears first of all for health, and secondly, the only thing we have is space and environment that we have to guard, and not allow... these antenna pillars of foreign teleoperators, which literally damages the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat, there is no need for a project or any agreement, no investment or investment whatsoever. They just find some particle where they're going to set up that base station, pay the rent to the man, and that's it. It's a lot of damage. On other things, we won't talk at all about the DTK cable our citizens paid for, so phone infrastructure, we handed over to foreign investors, i.e. foreign companies, where they go across our country or public or private, they become owners and eventually they manage our consumption, they turn off those phones regardless of what goes in front of phone numbers, connections, no matter what goes through our country and what we pay for it, our parents, are now owned by foreigners. Now it threatens us with the optical network to build what is a national interest, national interest and security, vital interest. To give someone connections and basically we gave them to manage what the Croatian man was doing and there's a threatened consumer, did the man pay 1,000 marks 20 years ago, or 2,000 marks to build his infrastructure home, to have a phone. And now suddenly the owner is a stranger. Based on what? Based on... The law is also a great expert later, and it alienated what the Croatian man created. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every single individual, our parents, built on our particles, public surface or private surface, that's true, let someone deny me here in the assembly, as they became German owners, the German company owner of our telecommunications. You were here yesterday, I see you laughed, yesterday you were in Parliament, and you were laughing so loudly. This topic is not settled, Mr. Chairman, this topic is too serious, this topic has to protect our citizens, it needs to protect consumers, not allow to rob things that are not meant to be robbed. Once again, I support that being... Consumers, but the fact is that any law from robbery, improvisation, down to concessions, does not benefit, which they bring here in parliament, all the laws that have been passed, have been passed here by the body and now we are calling for EU directives, and essentially all these companies that have come from the EU, are not essentially acting in the Croatian state, as they behave in their own country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's unimaginable in Germany or Sweden, that, mobile teleoperators, that the companies that these owners have with it, it's unimaginable to behave the same way in Germany as here. To put the base station and the antenna column where it pleases him. That's unimaginable. And in Croatia, it's mind-boggling. We must bow down to them, Servantically, not to lay down regulations like in Germany, such as in Sweden, we need nothing new to invent, but the same rules to protect our consumers from the rent of those who suck money in foreign pockets. Those were laws. I see here and many former ministers, so I'd like to be replicated to kill this all I've said is that everything in us is visible, in us everything is possible. I repeat again, in Croatia it is possible to protect consumers, consumer consumption, in us to show that domestic pomo, pomo from GMOs, anything in Croatia is possible to show what is not in the west. And that's what we're trying to loudly oppose and protect our people on all issues and economic issues and protect our space, protect our production, protect man as a consumer, the man who exists in these areas. And it's no wonder that from the shortest country in the EU on a daily basis people go in one direction, not only individuals but the whole family, and that's what I've just said, we're our national treasures, energy, telecommunications, fields, water, sources we hand over to foreign hands very perfiduously, but everything has gone through these laws... Someone had to raise their hand so that we could agree to join the EU and negotiate it. Who, I don't know. Maybe it was here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43600	Thank you, too. You have three replicas. The first is Mr. Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43601	Thank you, Vice President. So, my colleague Bulj, I'm not really invited here to talk about things five or two years ago or what could and could not have been done in the past two years, this replica I've reported to actually refer to your report about these antennas, purely for the public, and also for further information. Namely, when setting up these transmitters, or antennae, the most damage right next door, because your radiation is going so much on the side of the 50m, and those who have set up have the largest benefit, the least damage of course except for that radiation up the station, because then you, most often talking about buildings, are being paid off by that reserve fund, and on that side they might be good. And we have these situations, and recently, we have in Osijek where the neighbouring tenants have been rebelling, and unfortunately they have nothing to ask themselves, and there is really a little more to deal with. Of course again on the other side we all want to have as good a signal as possible, as much data traffic over the phone and then we're angry if it doesn't exist, but we need to know what the price of it is and always find ourselves somewhere in the middle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43602	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Bull's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43603	It's 2012. The World Health Organization concluded that radiation from antenna pillars or cell cells is health-threatening, and was later found health during a study in Brazil, and within 150m to 400 it increased in research means that the number of tumours was increased. It was done in Brazil to damage that radiation. Of course, it is amazing and impossible in the Croatian state that you can set up a base station wherever you want. So now a teleoper can end Parliament here if the particle comes to rent that to a man I don't know how many stands and that the... station without any consent, without anyone's consent. Thus, it was connected to the Croatian Association for Electromagnetic Emissions which gave the solution and which now gives solutions also, I have given the Minister of Construction, and I will also direct once more to the Minister of Health the solutions and rules that need to be changed from simple structures to base stations or antenna pillars, and also to the Ministry of Health to change certain regulations and laws precisely to be the distance as in other countries that have dealt with it. And that's very decisive, but someone favors teleopers because they need a building permit, they need to be in spatial plans, they need local self-government to pay, they need to make a project, they should invest in the electricity merger infrastructure, the connection of access roads. This way they put it where they come up with it, and we don't react. There should therefore be a common sense to protect our space, individuals and consumers. Every citizen is a consumer, therefore there are activist associations, i.e. The association for the protection against electromagnetic radiation had protests, numerous activities when Mrs. Taritash was a minister, no one had any, and Mr. Varga was a health minister, no one was doing anything. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43604	Thank you very much. Mr. Dobrojevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43605	Thank you very much, Vice President. I wanted to supplement your exposure a little bit. So the study with which we in the ministry have had the opportunity to show that there are savings in heat, however there is no evidence that such built-in divisions are cost-effective or that they are little where they are cost-effective. What you actually meant in your presentation is that this system was made through the amendment of the Heat Energy Act that imposed in such a way the installation of heat divisors is unconstitutional and bad. Bad for citizens because the issue of thermal energy is very specific and in such an unusual way to force the so-called. The liberalisation of the heat energy market, which we know to look like heat sources and that this is very unusually set and that the right path is quite different. So something else is a systematic approach, a change in physics of buildings, consumer analysis, energy analysis, etc. And then finally, in the end, the divider was sometimes possible to install, not in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43606	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Bull's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43607	You are well acquainted with this matter, you were a minister and you know what costs are, and not only this cost-effectiveness that you have said to the divisor but also the question of wind, i.e. The wind energy that was essentially a huge problem for the collection of electricity to the citizens. But you made a very quick solution at that time not to collect to the citizens, but again to the harm of the budget, a billion kuna a year. The next year, it's even more in the budget, so a huge problem has been made, but it's all in the interest of the party. For as much money as solar power plants could be placed on individual households, let's calculate for a billion kunas each year. So we're... the quota reached. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's radio projects? Of course, who was doing the projects? Of course who was in HEP,... Director at HEP, then do a project, that project sell to a stranger, and that's a huge profit to harm us here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They should be publicly called, publicly called, threatened, able to do whatever they want, damaged by the Croatian people to pain, to pain. I know it is here that General Krsticevic repeats that word, but indeed the Croatian people have nakeded to the pain. And the fact is, that's what needs to be done. How, in what way? I do not believe that those who have now made those regulations can and you have fought against such regulations, who have fought to protect it all, not to sell HEP 25%, that this will now go smoothly, but we will not, we will defend it, there are opportunities but it is a people's property and it is not the property of those who are now partners to a larger coalition partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43608	Thank you very much. Third replica, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43609	Col. Bulj, you were talking about the DTK network, what is important to stress that, apart from the DTK network, you mentioned the optical aggregate network and I expect here in the Croatian Parliament, here is when we are talking about consumer protection, support for all parliamentary representatives to Croatia, to support our prime minister who is probably under great pressure from Germany and Chancellor Angela Merkel and Deutche Telecom that Croatia is going towards building its aggregate optical network in order to make it available to all operators under the same conditions and what is the key and what we are talking about here today is that our citizens have lower prices of telecommunications services. And I think that's the task of all of us here, I've been asking the prime minister a question, I didn't get an answer, I'm going to refer the parliamentary question most likely in the morning because I expect the prime minister to finally answer whether Croatia will continue to build its aggregate optical network. And here I expect your support and the support of all MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43610	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43611	So I agree that it should be common to these solutions in the protection of national interests because the optical network would be both national interest and security in our country and, moreover, it would be much cheaper for Croatia to be owned and to win Croatia and not Germany, hoping for the invitation of the prime minister, often the friendship of its many friends in the European Union, in the European Commission that it will take advantage of this position and that there is no problem on our part, unfortunately it did not give the correct answer and a good answer, did not give any answer when you asked him here a few days ago when there was a European Council report, on a regular basis given by the prime minister. I hope that all MPs here will be this proposal of yours that you have set in the interest of Croatian citizens, in protecting Croatia's national security, that we will persist in this and that it will be Croatia, that Croatia will build this and will be the owner of what is normal and that it is an optical network, and I hope for the future, and that the DTK network will also return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43612	Thank you so much, everyone. Since the rapporteur will not take the floor at the end, I am concluding the debate and we will vote when the conditions will be met, which is usually on Fridays.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43613	Report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2013 to 2016 The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2013 to 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 124 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43614	And now we have another important point: - The Annual Defence Report for 2016. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 8. Defense laws. The material was delivered by the Parliament's dispatch. The hearing was conducted by the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. If Mr Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary, wishes to submit an additional explanation. Here you go. Good evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. In front of you is the Annual Defence Report for 2016, which describes to you and the Croatian public how the defence portfolio works, which it develops, how it fulfils its social role and has the means to which it is entrusted. In the strategic context of 2016, the trend of the growing instability of the political security environment in Europe and the world continued. The nature of security challenges and threats is becoming more complex and unpredictable and the interdependence of external and internal security is evident. Recognising these trends, the Croatian government launched a process of adopting a new National Security Strategy and drafting the Law on the Homeland Security System and directed them to the Croatian Parliament a few days ago for adoption. For the period 2016-2016, the The EU has made a significant step towards institutional improvement of the common security and defence policy through the presentation of a global strategy for foreign and security policy as well as plans for its implementation. In 2016, priorities in the design and implementation of defence policy at the Ministry of Defence concerned the continuation of the construction of defence capabilities identified by the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces and NATO with the objectives of capacity. As a responsible member of the International Community, the Republic of Croatia continued to contribute to the stabilisation of crisis hotspots and the expansion of the area of peace and security. In line with such commitment, the Armed Forces continued to participate in missions and peace support operations and thus continued our contribution to building international security. The most important security in 2016 in the context of NATO was the summit held in early July in Warsaw. In response to the amended geostrategic environment, the summit was attended by a decision on the Allied Dissuasion and Defence Act on the sending of forces to the northeast of the alliance in the context of a strengthened frontal presence. During 2016, activities were carried out aimed at achieving the projected personal structure of the Armed Forces, as well as improving the quality of staff through the balancing and coordination of primary development of support and personnel. A negative trend in the collapse of the defence budget has been halted, with around 25% of the budget being lost in the last 8 years. The growth of the defence budget in 2017 is 400 million kuna compared to 2016. In 2017, the ficus is on a man in a defence vault. In accordance with the plan for the admission of active military personnel, 800 soldiers were admitted in 2016, 15 candidates for officers of which 9 doctors of medicine, and on honorary duties in the active military service indefinitely, 250 contracted soldiers were accepted. In December 2016 a new Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Defence was adopted and new solutions were adopted on the schedule for all employees of the Ministry of Defence. For the reception of new officials and rejuvenation of the system, public officials will be invited to tender for the reception of that category of staff within a few days. At the end of 2016, pre-conditions were created and since 01 January 2017 improvements were made to the status of active military personnel by amending several regulations concerning the assessment of active military personnel, the establishment of the rights of cadets to collective insurance, a rule relating to military uniforms, a rule relating to reception conditions for active military personnel in such a way that under equal conditions the child has not only the mortally injured and missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War but also the child of every Croatian defender from the Homeland War. Equivalence of subsidies for the diet of officers and officers, increase of subsidies for soldiers who remain in the military, increase the monthly fee to volunteers from 1190 to 2000 kuna, and a rule on military specialists has been adopted. During 2016, as a prerequisite for the long-term development of the defence portfolio, the emphasis is on continuing the transformation of the Croatian Military University, Dr. Franjo Tudjman in a higher education and scientific research facility with the integration of the University Community of the Republic of Croatia. Equipment and modernisation in accordance with the means available have been implemented with the aim of achieving the capacity to carry out the missions and tasks of the Armed Forces and to achieve these objectives. The implementation of the equipment and modernisation programme for all branches of the Armed Forces was focused on redefined priorities. The involvement of the manufacturer of military equipment from the Republic of Croatia and the promotion of growth of the Croatian economy with respect to competition has been retained. By the end of 2016, under the current long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, a decision was to be taken on the possibilities and modes of the development of the capacity to protect airspace. Therefore, an expert team was established on the multi-purpose combat aircraft project to carry out the multi-purpose combat aircraft procurement operations. The tasks of the expert team are to produce a tactical and technical study by 30 June 2017, to prepare elements for the making of bid applications, to make a feasibility study based on the collected offers from potential bidders through cost-benefit analysis to prepare for further decisions. The activities of equipment and modernization of Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defenses were aimed at equipping the reconnaissance helicopters of Kiowa Warrior. During 2016 activities focused on continuing the equipment of 126 base armored vehicles Patria sub-systems of arms and special equipment. The implementation of the 2000 Haubice vest project continued in April 2017, the first two solo hoodies of a total of 16 were brought to the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the dynamics of delivery of other hoodies, it was planned by the end of 2017. The main project of equipment and modernisation of the Croatian Navy in 2016 was to continue the construction of coastal patrol ships. Out of the most important infrastructure projects, we highlight the military storage complex Doljani, the Vojarna in Sinj to ensure the temporary accommodation of the engineering unit, the construction of a command facility in a military facility in Petrinja, the construction of a military facility in Vukovar, the construction of a located building in the military Savudrija, the reconstruction of the kitchen in military Croatia Zagreb, the construction of a data centre within the project of network computer systems and accommodation facilities within the Croatian Military University. Franjo Tudjman. In 2016, armed forces carried out activities in the full implementation of missions and tasks. In the peacetime conditions of the activities in 2016, they focused on the surveillance of airspace and maritime space and the contribution to the Allied collective defence. A total of 55 exercises, 17 domestic and 38 international exercises took place in 2016, increasing participation in international exercises. The implementation of the task of supporting civil institutions has proved the readiness of the Armed Forces as an inseparable part of the identity of the state and society. This was evident during the aid of flooded areas, fire extinguishing, in the rescue of emergency medical transport to the Republic of Croatia, and we highlight our participation in providing humanitarian assistance in fire-fighting tasks in the state of Israel in November last year. Dear MPs and MPs, I suggest you adopt the Annual Defence Report 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43616	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Ivan Willibor Sincic was the first to seek word in the name of the living wall representative. He's gone. He's losing his word. The other is Mr. Miro Bulj. He's got it, and he's got a right to say it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43617	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State thank you very much for the exhaustive State Defence Report 2016. The fact is that the Croatian Army is the pride of the Croatian people, she... Because the Croatian people are to have the highest security and the fact that it has been these past few years, i.e. Even a dozen years forgotten. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the role of Croatian soldier and Croatian soldier. So it's very important, and that's what you mentioned. It means that the Croatian soldier has the terms of the lives of the Croatian soldiers in the military. You said several restaurants were restored. I saw here in Croatia that it was disastrous, abandoned, forgotten until pay and other problems that Croatian soldier must have primarily professional Croatian soldier, that people, i.e. young people who have an invitation to be professional soldiers, because it is an invitation to defend and serve the Homeland, that they have means the safety and stability of some kind of bar on that side secured and that of course you should work in all kinds of military work and aviation and equipment and infantry and navy. Because the fact that threats are always threatened may not be the way they used to be, but they also threaten a Croatian soldier dressed as a soldier, equipped with a soldier from technical means to everything is very important in protecting security on all matters not only of war threats, but also of other meaning threats that occur today in the world. And the fact that there has been some shifts and visible in the last year, and this is also evident in the strategic deployment of the Croatian army in the military. As you said, the blue military, because we need to know that by last year we didn't have any stationary, no pedestrian military, no pedestrians, no engineering, no small-scale army from Knin. So it wasn't Knin, all the way to Dubrovnik. Here we have now had this very important segment where the narrow space is, where the forces need to react quickly, and even in the event of a fire, it is obvious that the forces need to react quickly and that, as far as security and defence are concerned, it is a very important narrow space where other crises can also occur, and we see that they have recently been very important. And I see some kind of shift. And once again, I also mention the werewolf military and the records are the same, which means that it's redistributed these forces, i.e. throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and thus facilitates and reduces the costs of the Croatian Army which paid hugely the costs of the example from Imotski, Sinjska krajina to Benkovec and further. It's a huge transport cost. It seems to me as much as 40, a hundred and a few million what it means is that the cost reduction must be invested in a professional soldier, in a man. The soldier is a man and the biggest investment, and he needs to go to him and, basically, in logistics to equip that soldier and be sure of doing all his tasks, and that's the priority of this. As far as we're concerned, we've also told the Air Force, we know that the problem was even repairing the planes that were sent to Ukraine. Unfortunately, huge money has been invested. They're back in, so they're in parts. I'm a river once in dots or carioli. I'm interested in that part of the investigation. Because still giving one money to a very important, it's a threat to national security, you know. Then whoever led the government, who ran national security, then compromised the national security segment. Let's move aside from the political division of the left and right and center. The fact that the planes were paid, and the investigation had to come to an end, the responsibility had to be a huge amount of money, and we threatened the air force. our very important, very important vision of our defense forces. It's one of the disastrous messages about how unserious the state is. Well, we're not the banana republic. Yet the Croatian army was created in blood. I've personally been a professional soldier for many years, and he knows what it means to be a professional soldier, that it's honorable, that a young man must have a message that it's a serious army, that parts of it are returned to planes that went to Ukraine on a normal flight for repair or some sort of remont. That's disastrous. Thus, these messages are bad and this triba security service, i.e. commit as much and as much as possible to the least, not even the inconvenience, but even at the level of high treason in this way to treat the defence forces. And the Navy is very important to protect our sea, because we see what's going on, that we try to be, that many countries are coming towards us. However, we hope that we will protect our space, that we will protect our space that the Parliament has voted here in this case of Savudrija, i.e. The passage through our territorial sea, which the Assembly unanimously voted in 2014, to stop arbitration in 2015. And I hope there won't be any conflict, but the fact is that this is our space. And I hope that the prime minister will take his friends diplomatically, because diplomacy obviously did nothing when he was not familiar with the Parliament, the parliament's decision, according to the prime minister of his friends in Europe in Brussels, that this problem will be resolved in a peaceful way, that our territorial sea will remain our territorial sea, that we will not need a navy because we see Slovenia deliberately provoking, entering our space. Our people with their warships, what they show, means one non-serious thing on the part of Slovenia. And I hope once again that diplomacy will do that part, that it won't trim our Armed Forces into that part, because it would really be the worst thing that should happen at this point and because of good neighbourly relations. But first of all, we must protect our territorial seas and land, and here we must be prepared for anything. I'd say once again that here's the signal that we have to raise the budget to 2%. What are the effects, it's very important in the perspective, I know it refers to part 2016. But very important are the effects from one point and some percent go to two percent. It's a huge separation. In fact, it is only an imposed US policy towards NATO forces and the fact that the Croatian soldier must not only serve to be at the Russian border in greater numbers. The Croatian soldier must be trained, above all, to defend Croatia, of course, to be in coalition with everyone in cooperation, but not only to be complete, to be, throughout history, until the independence of the Republic of Croatia, to wage war for other people's interests, and until we can resolve our interests such as the primary interests of solving our territory and our borders. Here's how much, we'll support this report, because in 2016 there are visible shifts, that's a fact. I expect the Ministry of Defence to make certain moves this year, mainly in this section towards the Croatian soldier, in the condition of life and to be proud to be a Croatian soldier, a Croatian officer and a Croatian officer, and not to have people leaving the Croatian Army in as many as 3 countries, because yet a professional soldier is not only a job, nor is it a calling, it is a duty, it is a pride, it is 24 hours busy, simply, and people should be rewarded because they serve their country. And serving your country is the greatest honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43618	Thank you, too. There's no replica, there's no replica, there's no replica, there's no Mr. Djakic. Here's Josip Djakic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. In front of us is the 2016 Defence Report, supported by the HDZ Club and which we can say that it represents a full overview of the state and activities carried out in the area of defence policy and the planning of priorities and activities in the field of international defence cooperation, human and material resources management and financial resources. During 2016, the trend continued to increase the instability of the security environments in Europe and the world. Internal instability and armed conflicts in certain countries and regions, political... extremist ideology and radicalism, demographic trends and social change, growing energy requirements and the rapid development of information communication technology have a significant impact on the security environment in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Continuing the deterioration of the relationship between the Russian Federation and the Western states, terrorist attacks, refugee migrant crisis, the growth of the role of cybernetic space, as a polygon of information warfare and other forms of security endangering citizens, institutions and states. The EU Member States' dilemmas deal with security issues within the framework of the EU's common, security and defence policies and political and security, a still unstable area of Southeast Europe. These are all challenges directly affecting the creation of a defence policy of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia, which is present in NATO's command structure, and in 2006, the completion of the assigned positions was 100%. They participate in many NATO activities as well as significant bilateral defence cooperation, mainly with the United States as the main strategic ally and partner of the Republic of Croatia, in the area of security and defence, and in Germany, Poland, the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland, Austria, France, and neighbouring countries, respectively, countries of particular interest in regional security, Hungary, Slovenia, Italy, BiH, Kosovo and Macedonia. In 2016, continued cooperation continues to improve partnership relations with neighbouring countries and regional countries, recognised as areas of particular importance for the security of the Republic of Croatia. Participating in regional security initiatives and forums, the Ministry of Defence continued its proactive arrangement in the context of further affirmation of the Republic of Croatia, as a regional leader and driver of the necessary processes in the countries of Southeast Europe, with special emphasis placed on participation in multinational formats that are active, which... with the Euro-Atlantic aspirations of the Member States, notably the US and the Adriatic Charter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under this initiative, the Republic of Croatia continued to provide active support in implementing projects aimed at achieving a fundamental objective, establishing this format of integration of all Southeast European countries in transatlantic... It should be pointed out that despite the efforts made so far, the Ministry of Defence had to continue to practice promoting gender-aware policies and continuously create conditions for increasing the percentage of women in the armed forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since in 2016 only 13% of women were armed forces, and the percentage of women in the leadership and command duties, overall was 9.10%. As a special and valuable success, it is necessary to highlight the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence and Purpose Industry. The presence of Croatian military equipment manufacturers and weapons at various international fairs, exhibitions, is a huge contribution, not only in economic terms, but also in the recognition of the Republic of Croatia in the world. It should also be reminded of the support of the armed forces to civilian institutions. Especially in the ceasefire, where an extremely successful action has been achieved to help the state of Israel. Emergency air transport, life-threatening persons, transportation of transplant bodies, preventing and removing the consequences of natural disasters, and search and rescue on land, islands and sea. However, it should point to a lack of resources as a fundamental problem in 2016 as well as a reduction in the budget in 2016, which stands in the way of building modern and effective armed forces, which can deal with all the challenges in international operations and in the case of the need to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and would be available to support civil institutions in the event of disasters and accidents and in other situations as the ultimate objective of the long-term development plan of the armed forces. Due to the lack of funding from the Republic of Croatia, the helmet in modernising arms and military equipment. There is a particularly visible problem in MiG-21 combat planes that, perhaps in this report too, should have been described more as a problem that should have been highlighted because it was paid for our MiGs, as far as we can see it was partially successful or we can estimate it as a failure. There are also criminal charges for those who received bribes in the MiG remont procedure. Procedures are conducted before the competent state authorities and that is what disrupts both security and stability, as well as the protection of the Croatian sky. The Ministry of Defence's 2016 financial plan was established by the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and changed in line with changes and additions to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and was obtained by the consent of the Ministry of Finance. Finally, it was 3 billion 982 million 609 thousand and 170 kuna, representing 1.16% of the projected GDP, and compared to 2015, the share of the defence budget in GDP was reduced by 0.16% from 1.31% to 1.16% of GDP. The Croatian military has achieved exceptional results through activities within NATO, the UN, the OSCE and regional co-operation, therefore it is expected to expect that such engagement and increase of the defence budget or at least by preventing the reduction of funds intended for defence will take into account, in particular, a number of security challenges that we face today as well as threats that can be faced from day to day... We believe that all the exercises that were carried out, and we heard from the secretary of state as many as there were, were actually 55, 17 domestic and 38 international exercises held, which strengthened the Croatian Army, showed their readiness, trained troops so that today we also have special forces that are for special purposes. We also have 14 participations in peace support operations, crisis response operations, humanitarian operations and other activities abroad in 2016. This full report lists all the important things that affect and which are very important for the Republic of Croatia and can read out what needs to be improved in the future. I think that the Long-term Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia since 2015-2024, with a constant increase in budgetary resources and ensuring the modernisation of the Croatian Army for the ultimate purpose of building modern and effective armed forces that can deal with all challenges in international operations and in cases of need to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and be available to support civil institutions in case of disasters, accidents and other situations where the resources of civil institutions are not sufficient. We therefore believe that the next report for 2017 will be greatly improved with new segments that talk about where we arrived with the equipment of combat vehicles, with the purchase of new aircraft or decision on the purchase of new aircraft, and in that report 2017 he would also like to see what happened to the MIG's remont as the overall content of the mandate that is now behind the former minister, now with the new minister at the helm. I hope we'll see exactly what happened because we've also asked for one thematic session about what happened to the MiG remont and what procedure is now everything that happened about it. I thank you for being able to praise this report on behalf of the club, but also indicate what should be contained in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43620	Thank you very much, Mr. Djakic. We've exhausted the debate. Mr. Ivić, would you like some? Okay. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the terms are clear on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43621	Annual Defence Report 2016. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The Annual Defence Report 2016 is hereby adopted. Please vote. I find that most of the vote is 100 votes in favour of, 23 abstentions, as proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43622	Finally, we have the last item of daily work: - Proposal for a Strategy and Action Plan for the protection of the nature of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2017 to 2025. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 11. The Nature Protection Act. You've received the material into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43623	Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. Before you is the Strategy and Action Plan for the Protection of Nature of the Republic of Croatia. It is a roof document that ensures long-term protection of all the ingredients of biodiversity and provides a framework for the management of nature protection until 2025. Let me remind you that preserved nature represents the highest value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. The rich and diverse nature is one of the most valuable resources we have, it is the source of life and the foundation of economic development. International initiatives dealing with the economy of the ecosystem have become aware of the high value of ecosystem services that must be identified and evaluated in Croatia in the coming period. The Natura 2000 ecological network, among other things, brings significant economic benefits to EU Member States. Only the value of a recreational visit to these areas amounts to 5 to 9 billion euros per year. At European level, the value of the Natura 2000 ecological network area is recognised in particular as investment in its conservation is considered desirable because it directly contributes to the Europe 2020 objectives for growth and employment, given that Natura 2000 may be the direct drivers of the development of local, regional communities and their economies. In view of the obligations arising from the global strategic biodiversity plan 2011 to 2020, the Republic of Croatia had to develop a new Strategy and Action Plan for Nature Protection for the period 2017 to 2025. The obligation to draw up a strategy is also prescribed by the Nature Protection Act. The strategy sets out long-term objectives and guidelines for the preservation of biodiversity and geo alleviation, as well as how to implement and defines a total of 5 strategic objectives. The first strategic objective of this Strategy concerns the need to increase the effectiveness of basic nature protection mechanisms, the second strategic objective creates a framework for reducing direct pressure on nature and promoting sustainable use of natural resources. The third strategic objective is to strengthen the capacity of the nature protection system while the 4th objective provides a framework for increasing knowledge and availability of data on nature. The 5th and last strategic objective is to raise the level of knowledge, understanding and public support for nature protection. Starting with the 5 strategic objectives set out above, the Strategy defines 20 specific objectives and 107 activities. I would point out that the Strategy does not introduce new mechanisms that would additionally burden the state budget, the county budget, cities or municipalities and extra budget users. This strategy also has a positive impact on the preparation for the use of EU funds, given that the objectives and activities of the Strategy contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Competitiveness and Cohesion Operational Programme for the period 2014-2020. The implementation of the strategy-planned activities will contribute to better absorption of EU funds. Finally, I would like to point out that by supporting this document, we are ensuring the long-term conservation of nature as a fundamental value and potential for further development of the Republic of Croatia and its affirmation in the European environment as a country with developed awareness of the importance of the conservation of natural wealth that provides multiple developmental directions for smart, thinking and sustainable use. I thank you for your direction in the hope that the Croatian Parliament will support the adoption of this basic strategic document for the protection of the nature of the Republic of Croatia for a period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43624	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Shillig. The first to report to Ivan Vilibor Sincic, the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall, is gone. The second is Mrs. Dragica Roscic, the club of HDZ representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43625	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to welcome Secretary of State Mary Shileg of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Here, it's 8:30, my colleague's been here since 2:00, but he's worth it, and we're already used to working so I don't think this is gonna be a problem for him. I'm glad I liked having a show in front of the club means something about this strategy. In fact, I worked on a number of strategies, three of which were sustainable development strategies. And of course the principle of sustainable development is involved in the development of this strategy. On the other hand, this Strategy is the victim of an election cycle that happens every 4 years, over the past period we have had more often, and of course we bring strategies for the European Union's programming period five-year period, and we follow it so that we can better use EU funds and it is very important to the basic document. I'd start to mean in detail at the beginning of post-strategics, about the content itself technically and then I'd look back at the goals, especially specific goals and activities. I would comment because I saw what was done on the Committee on Environmental Protection. And for the end of the day, I'd leave a little commendation if it didn't turn out that I only had some suggestions or that I should criticise. What I would first suggest is that in that version of the strategy that will be published on the website of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, this strategy has content because here in this proposal we have no content at all. It also has some 70-page pages, 10 pages is at least extra here and it would be good if it did not cross with this design, simply all strategies more, less and opinions and we had recently and the Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia should not cross that scope. We have there both the 16th and the 17th pages where these graphic depictions that shouldn't be shown like that. The vision is also on one page, before it's shown in the table, I don't know what that is. We also have a legal basis in the introduction, so then we have a review of all these laws which are the basis for the adoption of this Strategy, i.e. national, legislative and institutional framework, it is repeated but well. So we said here that the strategy began to be developed in 2014 which is not very logical because all strategies should be completed within half a year or a year. I am pleased that this government has taken into account this and that we already have a bar on the work of this government in terms of six months to one year of the proposal for a strategy. Everything else that happens before is actually the continued work of institutions relating to the usual analysis which is the basis of the adoption of this strategy. But we must remind ourselves that only the consultation for this strategy was in 2015, so that even some of the comments that were made now are still questionable, or the answer to them in this strategy. But also when we brought the first strategy that was in 1999, then we brought the second one in 2008, so we see that basically the last 15 to 20 years is the same thing that happens every 9 years, which is not logical. So this is definitely the best version right now and the best chance we can get her adopted as soon as possible. Of course the club will support her. Here I come to those pages. Now let me look back at these five strategic objectives, and that also means the action plan. What we can't say is that the objectives are very smart in terms of being smart, that they're simple, that they're measurable and feasible because they're not listed, but I've seen in these reasons that once this strategy is adopted, the implementation plan will be adopted. Here I would like to stress in the strategic objective of 1, here we have an activity in the specific objective of two enrolling the boundaries of protected areas in the cadastre and land books. We have seen that the Committee means to protect the environment has made one observation that this Strategy should not be implemented until expert bases are revised, until all of this is entered in the cadastre, it is impossible, of course it is very important but it is impossible to do so before but it is very important that this is listed as a special activity. Of course, we can't wait, I've already mentioned, I mean, I've pointed out enough why we don't have time to bring this up anymore and we can't exactly figure out how to bring things into everyone's mind, some kind of strategy, I mean public goods and protected goods into the strategy and repeat what it says in the Constitution. We had a situation like this last week, with the National Security Strogania, where some parts were required to be introduced that just don't go into strategies. As regards specific objective 2 to break down and establish a system of monitoring the implementation and management of protected areas and species, I have already stressed in my activities as regards the area from which I come, 2015 expired the management plan... The damage is happening to farmers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps this can be associated with a specific goal, i.e. activities 2.6.2. but it would still be further mentioned here. As regards the action plan, i.e. the strategic objective, 2 also means to improve the control of the implementation of the mitigation measure for the ecological measure and to monitor its effects, to create thematic manuals, These are all activities related to strengthening the assessment system and eligible for the ecological network. We know that we have one situation that the Government adopted in 2014 a regulation based on the 2010 directives number 75 and 2011 number 92, then concerns environmental impact assessment. On the ground, this regulation creates quite a confusing situation, when using European funds because we have decided to apply to assess environmental impact in each individual case, and then how simply our services were not ready for it. Then we introduced aside from sometimes issues in the implementation of European funds, whether we need an environmental impact assessment, we have one and the other situation di evaluating the need to make an environmental impact assessment and that really creates technical problems in the code and unfortunately, because of the unpreparedness of the institutions does not meet its purpose. So you should think a little bit more about these activities, this government regulation, whether it is necessary to change it a little bit, along with this making of thematic manuals, guidelines for making studies and so on. Here we have a strategic objective 2. In the strategic objective of 3. it would point out here that, of course, it is very important to start the development of a system of monitoring and efficiency of workers working in nature protection facilities. Strategic objective 4, map ecosystem services and make an analysis of the state of the eco system. I commend this and this is extremely important, especially for our areas which are also touristic and can contribute to ensuring that resources that can be even more protected by nature and in the strategic objective of 5, encourage, allow for a higher level of public participation of individual groups of stakeholders in the planning and implementation of protection and adoption of planning and legislative documents. Of course, because of this situation, which I pointed out, that the deadlines are late, then of course in that election cycle, the public is not always well involved. Now, as I was saying, I'd only mentioned as far as these bases were concerned, the professional bases that were mentioned on the board. The Committee noted that the strategy should show measures and activities to protect against fires in protected areas with funding models. I believe that such an area, perhaps it is not his place in the strategy, in such a way, but that it is brought in special documents, but on the freighter, locally, unfortunately last week and last year, as I come from the area of the Biokovo Nature Park, we see that the fire protection systems are not working and we will not solve these problems by enrolling it in strategic documents. Here is the key to implementation as is the key implementation of this entire strategy itself, and as far as other details are concerned, I would stress that I am very pleased that, realistically here, human environmental pressure has also been assessed, but it has also been mentioned that the impact of man, i.e. reduced agricultural activity on the bone, on pasture, has also had a negative impact on environmental protection, it has been realistically seen that the development of the use of renewable energy sources has positive and negative impacts, especially in the case of wind power plants. Here, I commend that this document has finally come here, we support it in front of the Club, we will especially monitor this implementation, and I hope that it will be as successful as possible, and as soon as we can bring this implementation plan forward, so that this strategy is truly complete and that we can finally evaluate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43626	Thank you, Mrs. Roschcic. One replica, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43627	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs Rosčić, you mentioned in the opening section what was on the Committee on Environmental Protection, where it is said that certain elements of the strategy should be drawn in the cadastre, i.e., recorded in the grant books. Of course, this is possible in countries where the cadastre and grantovnica are updated. Our country, unfortunately, doesn't have that case. One of the projects and plans of the new Minister of Construction is the construction of a cadastre and grantovnica, so I hope that at the end of this term it will be settled and it will be possible to do so. Today, we have 9% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is catastraically recorded, so somewhere in the 3600 Catastrian municipalities is current, i.e., it corresponds to the situation on the ground, about 300 catastrian municipalities, in grantovnica it is significantly less. So some other countries do. Likewise, in its practice, Croatia had before, and I had opportunities to see in the grantovnica, for example, that the city of Dubrovnik was protected by the right of view. So it was something that existed, but that might be that we have to have a arranged cadastre and garland, so I really agree with your finding that at this point it's a little excessive. They must have a prerequisite, and when the conditions are created, then it will be possible, indeed, that strategy, but there will be something else that is equally important, and that in this assembly has caused quite a heated debate over the past tense period, and that is also a line of maritime goods. Because I think it's equally important to be defined. It's a prerequisite for a number of other things and activities that we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43628	Thank you, too. The answer to Mrs. Roscic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43629	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. I'm glad she expressed her consent. It is indeed true that we cannot include as I said, so we cannot implement all these positive requirements that have an excellent goal before this strategy is drawn up. But the fact is that one part of it, so the catastra is arranged and sometimes there are exceptions to making different plans and some boundaries are familiar to us. So this excuse is used to say nothing is arranged. I don't know the spatial plans of nature parks were brought in in the '30s, and that's not true. Some have been adopted much later, and plans have been made for them, maps of appropriate standards have been drawn, and we need to respect that and respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43630	Thank you, too. Mr. Gordan Maras. He's gone, he's lost his right. Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you are on behalf of the club of independent representatives and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43631	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in these late evening hours is the proposal for a strategy and action plan for the protection of the nature of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2025. I'm always sorry when these documents get a chance, or a chance to discuss it by late evening. However, it is also necessary to define and say a few words about such a document. Our club will support this strategy. We absolutely think that every strategy, every action plan is a big step, that it is a step towards better. And equally from there should be taken care of and, of course, commend what is good, show little doubt where we think something needs to be improved. I think that when it comes to such a document, then we should really all keep in mind a sentence that says preserved nature is a prerequisite for the survival and progress of modern society. And that's how it really is. When it comes to the Republic of Croatia, then we need to see what are the comparative advantages, on which comparative advantages we need to take into account and somehow try our own economic development and our all development strategies and sustainable development topics actually based on existing facts. And the current facts are as follows, that in the Republic of Croatia we have 8 national parks, 11 nature parks, or that's 8.35% of the surface. From the surface of the Republic of Croatia 46% is under the forests, 5 and a half percent was built, so construction is thus calculated not only by building under buildings, but by building and by complete infrastructure. So, everything that's been done with human hands. 31.8% is private-owned agricultural land, and when it comes to state-owned property then 11.2% in state-owned property is unprocessed and 4.6% processed. Similarly, when it comes to NATURA 2000, about 37% of the land is under NATURA 2000 and 16% of the sea. So the advantage Croatia has is the advantage that it is relatively poorly built compared to other EU countries. So the data we're talking about is that 75% of the population is per square kilometre in Croatia and when it comes to the other 27 countries still before the UK comes out of the other 27 is 115 inhabitants per square kilometre. If so, then we need to recognize our comparative advantage, we need to safeguard nature, be bold to take care of it, and nature can be used, and from it can be, as the secretary of state introductively said, can also have economic benefits, but not only in a way to turn nature into something else, but also to leave it as it is and to use it in that part. Equally when you look at the legislative frameworks, then Croatia is a signator of 18 international contracts where nature is protected in a certain way. And when it comes to bodies that collect different data from the aspect of nature protection, then there are 21 institutions that collect data on biodiversity, georaznolicity and/or landscape diversity. I would now really use a few words related to landscape diversity. The landscape diversity and all directives have been adopted. The landscape variety does not mean only natural, but it means a change in human hands, so when it comes to landscape, we also have an urban landscape that really is part of a very good quality and something that can be an absolute incentive. And this is what Croatia really has some advantages that this landscape is different in Zagorje, different in Slavonia, different in the so-called so-called so-called area. mountainous though we can't be called hilly, but mountainous not, and different in the Mediterranean. And there is a series of obligations that Croatia has to do with landscape diversity. Unfortunately, however, we have not completed this, and this is something that should be more emphasized and taken into account through such a strategy and through such a document in the future. I had the opportunity to see one document, and this is the regional basis of the city of Zagreb from 2010 which is well done. And I had the opportunity to see for Dubrovnik and the slopes of Dubrovnik from Srđa towards the sea began with a landscape basis which would then be the basis for spatial planning. Unfortunately, however, she did not go far, or at one point she stopped and it would be convenient to see why and how. The colleague who spoke before me spoke about these strategic goals, so I would not repeat it, these strategic goals speak partly and important education, the importance of data collection, the importance of collecting data in a specific place and in a certain way. But I'd say a little bit about strategic goal number two, and that's a sustainable use of natural resources. Now, of course, economic and human activities affect the use of primary goods, on the other hand, what is very interesting and what was seen when the spatial plan of the Northern Velebit National Park was adopted. So, on North Velebit, because of the end of human activity in one period, and the end of human activity was just because no one had to work, it stopped cutting those high meadows, and there was a change in nature where even at one point the question was put in place, whether or not it had any elements of the national park, because the characteristics of it were high visorous where the basket was and where certain cattle were grown. So that's one topic where nature really needs to be taken care of, because also nature, behind that, does its part, so nature does something and it does change that they are. Then, when it comes to the sustainable use of natural resources, water streams have a special theme. Waterways where changes occur at a time when sanders, i.e., seines, and thus there is change. What was characteristic of the Sava River, for example, is that it is to the pebbles on both sides and on the other side, in the work where it goes, where we are within the borders, or, together with the BIH. We have limited through certain regulations and later banned the use of sand and gravel. Bosnians, that is, our neighbours from the BiH continued this. And the indicators when you look at the charts and you look at the footage from the air, it shows that you are eating, so under quotes, that the coast of BIH and that the water supply of Sava is moving a little bit. In other words, I mean, after a certain time, it will happen that the surface of the Republic of Croatia will increase slightly, and the area of the BIH will decrease slightly and this is indicated and there will have to be international agreements about it, but that is something that is a particular topic. Those influences they have on certain, therefore, natural goods, are in any case the problem of construction areas. What we need to know is that through our regulation, through the spatial planning documents, through spatial plans, the areas intended for construction areas have been significantly reduced. That in the new generation of spatial plans, these spatial plans have an obligation and strategic environmental impact assessments, so that they can also see the impact on nature and changes that are for the simple reason that construction areas do not spread to something that is important from nature's point of view, but to stop it. A big problem is the problem of wild waste disposal. This is what we absolutely have the opportunity to see in space and nature. Wild waste disposals that, in this way, are actually unfavourable in both the living and the unlively. Equally, one aspect is very interesting and should be taken into account, which is building infrastructure. Since, according to our regulation, construction of infrastructure generally takes place outside construction areas, building large infrastructures, roads, railways, waterways, indeed lead to, they represent the biggest causes of habitat fragmentation. And of course, in future plans and future construction, you should take care of so-called. ... infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That through spatial planning, we make sure that the fragmentation of the habitat is reduced. Which is exactly what I'm trying to say. The same way as the change in regulation and as our lifestyle changes, we have increasingly smarter cell phones, we have more and more smart ones, computers and everything else, and so in regulation, especially from the aspect of space protection, nature protection, cultural heritage protection work all the time, and as we go on, we actually have a lot more knowledge, we have a lot more experience, and in this sense we account for. So when it comes to plagiarization, some of the elements used in the spatial plans of the 60's and 70's of the last century are not so anymore, today there are also obligations of environmental impact assessment, there are also obligations and strategic assessments that should be used, especially in the new generation of spatial plans and make sure that what is Croatia's advantage, and Croatia's advantage is this great, in fact small building, and a large amount of space that is under the woods and therefore, in this way, are actually natural spaces where the human hand has relatively little action to take advantage of us, that this is an advantage in economic development and that we have some other strategies from the aspect of spatial planning, in terms of economic development, that they should be taken into account that they are mutually consistent and that the elements from this strategy are incorporated and in this strategy. So, ultimately, the Independent Representatives and HSU Club will support this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43632	Thank you very much. There's seven of us left. Mrs. Roscic asked for the right to replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43633	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, I am glad that you mentioned the percentage protected areas of the Republic of Croatia, what is very important to point out, that, of course, it is our wealth, but unfortunately, we have a situation here, we emphasized through these documents and committees that 80% of the area in Lika is protected. I also work strategic plans... for the area of the municipalities of Podbikovlje, those who have the greatest wealth and the largest protected space unfortunately have often economic indicators bad and happens in a situation where we are rich in that space, and when we do not yet have good and strong capacities to manage protected areas and financial resources so that we can use it all then it happens that this space is destroying. So we have a situation in the Municipality of Podgora that pushes, for example, a dump of construction and other waste in a protected area, and in fact it is one of the municipalities that has the greatest wealth of the Nature Park Biokovo and unfortunately in this process and planning and providing the means of space is being destroyed. It is therefore important to have such strategies that combine resources and enable quality management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43634	Thank you very much. The answer to Mrs. Dark-Taritash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43635	Indeed, through the spatial planning process and through the whole Nature 2000 process and the adoption of some documents of spatial plans, there has been a problem that has been mentioned a lot, and that is that when it comes to Croatia and 28 EU countries, the most areas are under Natura 2000, both on land and on the sea. And there was quite a heated discussion, especially at the time Croatia entered the EU and beyond. No one wanted to listen to those who spoke differently. What it means is that someone, that they have protected spaces, has to turn it into their advantage, not their own fault, because a lot of people have talked about it, those who live in national parks and nature parks that they're second-class citizens, that they're seen as a window and so on. However, experience that is the EU needs to be seen. I will not talk about the experiences of America they are something different, where certain activities happen in nature parks and national parks. So in Austria, some national parks ski, so ski trails are. Likewise, in Austria and in England and France, in national parks and nature parks, people live normally, they deal with certain economies and economic activities if they are strictly controlled and are also places where they have turned it into their advantage. We need to learn how to make this wealth that we have and from the aspect of nature protection to make it our advantage and not make it a difficult element for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43636	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Slaven Dobrović Club of Representatives of the Bridge Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43637	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the Secretary of State. So we have a proposal for a strategy and action plan for the protection of the nature of the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2025. We heard in the State Secretary's statement that rich and diverse nature is one of the most valuable resources available to the Republic of Croatia. I really agree with that. What can we say about this resource? So it really is an invaluable mild, immeasurable value, and it makes it a fact for Croatian citizens who know that Croatia is a beautiful country to actually make it difficult and conscious. What we should certainly prevent from losing something and then figure out how valuable it was so that this strategy and this activity is very important. However, there is that practical value. So certain economic activities can be developed, i.e. green tourism, whether they are traditional products, whether it is a convenient type of new tourist offer in protected areas. So I think there are traditional products also that can be reactivated and Croatia's potential in this respect is extremely large and I think it has just begun to reveal itself. That is why it is important to safeguard the quality of our protected areas so that this potential or activity can grow. But of course, as anywhere else in the world, the quality of the environment and nature is changing under the pressure of human activities, and there is definitely the reality that we are facing and therefore there is a need for such documents to be brought. The strategy is a basic document adopted on the basis of guidelines of the Global Strategic Plan. We have the 10th Convention of the Parties to the Nagoa Convention and the defined five strategic objectives which are defined as they are. I do not see the problem here and certainly the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will support this strategy as defined. But what I'd like to look back on. The strategy says it stands in the opening section was created by a consulting process with a number of stakeholders, and implementation will require the active involvement of several central authorities of the state administration, administrative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, public institutions and other institutions. Furthermore, the activities and measures of nature protection referred to in the strategy will become an integral part of all sectors whose activities depend on or may have an impact positive or negative on biodiversity and geonomy, and will be taken into account in the development of changes and addition of spatial plans as well as management plans of natural resources at national and regional level. So this is very well arranged and none happier than all of us, I think if it's done as well as it says. It is good that it is recognised that the key involvement of all other relevant sectors is, therefore, in addition to the nature protection sector in order to achieve these objectives within the coming decade. Of course, the priorities of that period are linked to some of the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia through various contracts or directives of the law. However, it is certainly important to do so for our own sake. But well, intersectoral cooperation and understanding that nature is a prerequisite for survival and progress of society is extremely important throughout this strategy. And that's very good. However, I would refer to a small history of what we could learn, so over the past period, what cross-sectoral cooperation is in the Republic of Croatia. There were already mentions of Plitvice Lakes, so our oldest national park. And what's evident is that there's actually no intersectoral cooperation there. The evidence is that the process of issuing building permits as you know beyond the control of the nature protection system, i.e. the National Park as a public institution is responsible for this area. So we have a situation that we're practically out of control, it's an unsustainable state. It is therefore quite unusual that the public institution does not even participate in such a procedure. What needs to be applied of course dialogue, to establish cooperation and to define what it is, to what kind of construction it is, because it is not said that there can be no construction but what kind of construction that is, therefore, part of the sustainable use of natural resources as stated in the objective. So it's all nice and clear, but we should stick to it. Are there any other cross-sectoral connections? There's a lot of them, I'm sure. And I suggest we all look at the good principles on which the strategy stands. So they will write there, or we can find that unrenewed natural goods should be used rationally and renewable natural goods sustainablely. Or the protection of nature is an obligation of every natural and legal person and is obliged to cooperate to avoid and prevent dangerous actions and cause damage. So that's what it says. Or ultimately, there is a precautionary principle when there is a threat of serious and irreparable damage, so this precautionary principle is very important and is often ignored. So I will remind you that this principle goes for that wherever there is a scientific or professional disagreement, whether there is some serious threat or not, that the system must stand by caution therefore and wait for scientific or professional records to exist, about really not being confirmed and then going into some procedure that is initially claimed to be harmless. We have in the history of the world many situations where corporations pushed some products and procedures that were found to be catastrophic 10 or 15, 20 years later, and were then kicked off the list of permitted goods or even allowed to produce. So we need to learn something from history and then apply it. Let's say, here I'm going to set an example of the cruise of the karst underworld, which is quite enough to set up a waste management center. So in an area of intact nature that is extremely karstified. So cavernous is something that is completely unexplored, unknown, actually too valuable. Of course, here, the precautionary principle is being violated and, in fact, certain intersectoral cooperation. Here's an example, I'm going to touch yesterday's draft law confirming the Minamatic Convention on Living, so the living element that is now all present in the environment because it's been released uncontrollably for years. And today, even in Croatia, there are many devices that only partially end up through the concession system or through recycling courtyards, so various fluo tubes, thermometers, and are still quite unfortunately reaching mixed municipal waste. Therefore, an urgent measure can be taken to prevent this permanent and irreparable damage to the environment. So there are many sectors where misunderstandings and false politics create problems, so they create a threat to nature, so nature, the state of the environment as we know it, which we all agree is one of the greatest treasures of the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to end up with a few sentences, or conclusion, so nature protection definitely falls into one multidisciplinary activity. So it's not just biologists, so it's not one, two, it's a whole string of waists. And the lack or avoidance of this cross-sectoral cooperation is, in fact, a major threat to nature protection. And certainly the shortsightedness of certain sectoral policies in terms of nature protection is no longer allowed. We can understand that certain economies, projects are on this, we can say short-sighted about environmental protection, but there is therefore a legal system, a system of nature protection, an environmental impact assessment system, and there is practically no mistake, so we need to make sure that our system is complete, that it is networked, that it is transported by dialogue, by understanding of problems if there is a misunderstanding for certain points, then they sit down and debate. And breaking dialogue is something that is not allowed. Here we go. I've already said I support this proposal and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43638	Thank you, too. Mr. Dobrović, you have one replica. Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43639	Thank you very much. Dear Sir, you mentioned the area of Plitvice Lakes National Park in your presentation. So if you'll allow me to read something in this strategy, which you as Minister of former environmental protection certainly know, which is that in the ministry there is a special administrative nature protection that in its work area gives special conditions from the aspect of nature protection to all procedures that take place in the area of the National Park and in the area of Plitvice Lakes National Park. So I'm guessing there's not a single building permit issued where its special conditions or consent have not been given by the competent Nature Protection Authority. It is equally unlikely that since 1 July 2015, the establishment of the Environment and Nature Agency has been abolished by the Environment Protection Agency and the State Nature Protection Institute, where there has been some professional basis for the development of spatial plans, areas of specific characteristics, national parks and nature parks. In other words, I want to say this. For the development of a new spatial plan of the Plitvice Lakes National Park, the expert background of nature protection was made by the agency and it was the basis. Because when it comes to national parks and parks of nature, then it is the role of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, it is only a professional designer of the plan, professional bases from the aspect of nature protection that gives the competent ministry before the agencies, and now a new agency from the aspect of cultural heritage protection. Likewise, those who are in charge of this without their consent to the spatial plan shall have no spatial plan and no building permit issued without the consent of one or more resistors. So I'm interested in this finding of yours. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] I guess she was in that context.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43640	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. Looks like you're up? All right, you're up. Here you go. It's too late for controversy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43641	Thank you very much. A colleague of Mrak-Taritash, therefore, has an impact on the environmental network that is now being sought, so the process of issuing a building permit is one thing, and the issue of hydro geological problems, i.e. the impact in the area of the protected area of Plitvice Lakes National Park, so the impact on saddle barriers is something else. Therefore, the public institution responsible for all the activities in the field of care is the one who must know and who is responsible for what can be allowed, what cannot be allowed and the abandonment of a public institution, so the national park from that procedure is something that is not allowed. As for the second part of the question, that is, your replica, the State Institute for Nature Protection is also the basis he gave, so that was the basis. The designer made a variant of the spatial plan. However, on the basis of the variants made, a series of remarks and suggestions were also issued which were later made in the absence of communication, so it was neither included nor elaborated. So these are situations that we must avoid in Croatia whether we want to preserve, so these natural values for generations to come. So entrepreneurship is a great thing, but we can't let a short-term cry of entrepreneurship in whatever sense it is, now whether an apartment or something that will bring some benefit in the short term and local self-government and to the state through taxes [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] respects natural heritage that is invaluable. [[Mr. Dobrović, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43642	Thank you. Sir, now individual debate Mr. Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And finally, Mr. Tomislav Liposcak, an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43643	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So I think we can all agree here that the preservation of nature and human environment represents the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. This strategy is, in fact, a fundamental nature protection document that seeks to define long-term objectives and guidelines for the preservation of biodiversity and geo-proliferation. The strategy has defined vision, strategic and specific objectives and a series of activities that follow from them. It is precisely intersectoral cooperation and understanding between individual sectors that is necessary for the survival and progress of our society and for nature conservation. On this occasion, I would like to emphasise the importance and role of the forestry sector and the forest industry in implementing this strategy and action plan, as we often forget and ignore this role very often. The fundamental principles of Croatian forestry are sustainable management with the preservation of the natural structure, the diversity of forests, and the permanent increase in stability and quality of economic and general beneficial forest functions. The Convention on Biodiversity is a globally adopted basic document for the protection of biodiversity. It was adopted in Rio in 1992 and the Republic of Croatia became a party to this convention by adopting legislation on the adoption of it. The EU's biodiversity strategy was also adopted on the trail of the 2011 convention. The forests of the Republic of Croatia are internationally known as an exceptional source of biodiversity. It is important to note that even with all the natural advantages that we have in our forests, that is, forest eco systems would not be in the state in which they are today if there were no forest professions and sciences that govern forests on the principles of nature and perseverance. The value and role of forests or forest land in nature protection is sufficient and the fact that almost half of the land area of the Republic of Croatia is under forests, of which 97% of these forests are wasteland. This strategy aims to preserve the diversity of living nature and restore it through five strategic objectives. And like I said, I'm going to try briefly to look back from the point of view of forestry and forestry on each one of them. The first strategic objective involves increasing the effectiveness of basic nature protection mechanisms. The accession of the EU Republic of Croatia also identified the areas of the NATURA 2000 ecological network and of the total area of the land area of the Republic of Croatia, which is located under that network of more than 50%, is located in the forest-economic area. In addition, when designing the programme and the basis for forest management, the competent ministry shall issue conditions of nature protection for each economic unit, and shall require the State Nature Protection Office to draw up expert bases for each economic unit. These documents contain descriptions of the area of the ecological network, potential areas of the ecological network. There are also guidelines inside, and protection measures required to be installed in forest management programmes. By reducing direct pressure on nature and promoting sustainable management of natural resources, it is defined as the second strategic objective of this strategy and plan. Organized forestry in Croatia at least in this form as we know it dates back to the mid-18th century. At that time, the first administration of the Karlovo Generalate forest was established and several laws were passed, i.e. several so-called so-called "Karlova Generalate". The forest order of which is best known is that of Mary Teresa's 1769 forest order. It was actually the first one we can say the forest law in which Croatian forestry is introduced for the first time the concept of sustainable or sustainable management. A notion that became known globally only at the end of the 1980s. During its 250-year practice, our forestry did not allow for the removal of natural forests and habitat degradation either by clean seeds and by raising artificial forests, which is unfortunately done by most Western European countries. Forest management is also planned and prescribed by forest-economic plans and programmes and is of breeding character. It advocates the management of indigenous species which is in the spirit of this strategy and this plan, and with natural rejuvenation. It should be noted that, in fact, almost 80% of the total forest area is managed according to FSC principles which confirm compliance with all the principles of secret, or sustainable management. Long-term planning, regular revision and restoration of forest-economic plans ensure forest management within the framework of growth and within the framework of the rules of the profession. The third strategic objective is defined as strengthening the capacity of the nature protection system. It is nature protection that depends on the strength of the system it implements, as well as on the education of those who do so and who participate in this system. The protection of forests and forest eco-systems is defined by the Law on Forests and the Regulation on forest conservation and is an integral part of the forest management process. It is prescribed that the conservation of forests may be carried out exclusively by a person with a minimum average level of expertise, subject to other conditions prescribed by specific regulations. This ensures the minimum level of education as well as in one hand the lifelong improvement that is further defined by certain regulations. Most of the tasks of these forest guards, i.e. logars as we call them, are directly related to the system of nature protection in the spirit of this strategy and in the spirit of this plan. The fourth strategic objective is to mention increasing knowledge and availability of data on nature. It is noted that the lack of human potential for data collection and processing and the lack of financial resources is precisely the biggest challenge in the implementation of this objective. That is why it is necessary to insist on strengthening all those systems that actually work through their day - to - day activities. Eco-systems, i.e. the wealth they produce, that is, all their benefits are called eco-system services and so far the strategy has not recognized them and has not dealt directly with them. But this topic was recognized in the 1990s through the system by the general user of the forest functions. For those services, all legal, natural persons carrying out economic activities paid a fee or still paid, which unfortunately over the past years has been reduced several times and today amounts to 0.0265% of total income. Unfortunately, complaints and callings are actually due to this fee, but only when there is a disturbance of the common useful functions of the forest whether it is due to fires, floods, certain natural... or we can see their role and significance, even though we often take them for granted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll mention that only soil protection from erosion, the prevention of floods, the purification of water, the air, the mitigation of greenhouse effects and the like. And the last goal of this strategy is to raise the level of knowledge, understanding and public support for nature protection. Information, education of the public is a very important factor in the system of nature protection and precisely the topic of nature protection we build and is woven through education from the earliest stages of education, and beyond. However, the most powerful touch and public impact have institutions that can bring nature protection values closer to and specifically on the ground through teaching paths, panels, installations in nature and the like. Many of them are located in the areas of forest eco-systems and, along with public institutions, a great contribution to this goal is given by the company of the Croatian Forests, as well as the Croatian Forest Society. And finally, to conclude, because my time is slowly leaking. Forests and forest land account for 47% of the total land area of the Republic of Croatia. Forest eco systems are highly complex and, fortunately, most of our eco systems can be, for example, for many in the world, through the sphere of management, either through the sphere of forest protection, or through the protection of nature indirectly. Similarly, it is necessary to highlight the need especially for this topic of listening to professions and institutions, and to implement the instructions they give to avoid further anomalies, further irregularities in protecting forests which we have had the opportunity to see in the problems of the underpasses in the Gorski Kotar which was created after the catastrophic icy. But it's more of a different occasion. And finally let me quote after all our famous forest expert and academics Mr. Dusan Klepco who said there was no progress in forestry, and I would add here also in the sphere of nature protection without science and without culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43644	Thank you, too. And there was no replica. Okay. In the end, State Secretary Mr. Mario Šilek will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43645	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to really thank you for the debate, both individually and club representatives, and in particular I would like to thank all the clubs of the representatives who have expressed their support for this proposal for our strategy. I would just like to take a brief look at our most famous, oldest, would like to say the most valuable National Park Plitvice Lakes, so I would like to agree with the distinguished representative Dobrović, that there was no cross-sectoral cooperation, and in that sense I would like to say that in the last 2 months we are fostering, intensifying inter-resorship cooperation, especially between the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. So I hope and believe, and I am sure that we will come out very quickly with concrete solutions and initiatives on the change and addition of the spatial plan of the Plitvice Lakes National Park. About a guideline to avoid further problematic construction within the national park, and also a new plan to manage the national park, where we aim to reduce pressure in those summer months, when we have the largest number of visitors, means to enable more rationally sustainable management of our national park. There is another project, which you well know about, which means resolving the water utility infrastructure, where we first separate the management of water facilities from the public business administration, public institutions in the municipal company, the utility company in Korenica, which makes all the assumptions that waste water treatment and water supply systems can be done in a rational way and effectively using the EU funds at your disposal very soon. Thanks again to everyone for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43646	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote Friday. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. Goodbye. And the last one to come out, let him turn off the light. The session interrupts at 22.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-05-0.u43647	Proposal for a Strategy and Action Plan for the protection of the nature of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2025. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am giving the adoption of the Proposal for a Strategy and the Action Plan for the Protection of Nature of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2025. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 124 votes for the adopted Strategy and the Action Plan for the protection of the nature of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2025. Here you go, pal Alexic.
