ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25208	On behalf of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club, I am asking for a 10 minute break to discuss the latest case law and the judgment in favour of the legal person due to the illegal change in interest rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25209	Hrelja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25210	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HNS Club and the Croatian Retirement Party, I am asking a 10-minute recess to discuss the announced national pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25211	Representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25212	I'm also looking for a 10-minute break to talk about spreading the lies of members of the antivaccination vaccination movement, which are opposed to the vaccination that penetrates the security of our entire nation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25213	Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25214	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I am also looking for a break to discuss the situation of pensioners and national pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25215	I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. It's 9:35 p.m. We're going back to work. Four clubs called for a break. The first club came to the Living Wall and Power. In their name will be the representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25217	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to talk about the latest findings in court practice regarding the illegal change in interest rates, so I came into possession of one conviction for a legal person. So, Prosecutor Reviviva d.o.o. In Split, Hypo Alpe Adria banka was sued by the current Addico bank, according to his pronoun, Zeljko Puljic, a lawyer from Split, and the prosecutor asked the bank to return overpaid interest because the bank voluntarily changed the interest margin. And the Commercial Court in Split ruled, of course, in favour of the prosecutor, because the prosecutor is Reviviva d.o.o. agreed with Hypo bank interest margin in two loans. In one loan of 3 and a half percent, and in the second loan of 3%, the bank later would voluntarily increase the margin to 7% without any agreement with the prosecutor. The Commercial Court in Split correctly assessed the situation and ruled that a total of two million and 150 thousand kuna plus tight interest must be returned to the prosecutor. I appeal to all of you MPs and MPs who have ever signed for a legal person some loan agreement, to bring me the contract personally and any change in interest rates in that contract and to see if maybe the bank swindled you for a certain amount of money. Who knows how many such cases there are in Croatia where the state has been cheated, local self-government or something like that or some other legal person where the bank has voluntarily changed interest rates. Because what the bank did to consumers, what banks did to consumers, the same banks did to legal persons. About half a year ago, I also found in one case that the bank first contracted a fixed portion of the interest rate of 1% to be followed by a fixed part of the interest rate of 4%, and in fact, the loan was collected for an entire million and a half kuna by the end of the payment. In addition to being very interesting, this verdict for a legal person, I must say, that the case-law in the first-degree judgments has been very well rolled in favour of the consumer, so we already have a whole series of first-degree rulings because of increasing the illegal increase in interest rates and in all these judgments, first-degree courts take the correct view that there is no statute of limitations, because outdated claims cannot be before the prosecutor has found out that there is even his claim. Therefore, the power of judgment in the case of Franak on 13 June 2014 gave rise to the knowledge that there are illegal interest rates and that there are overpaid interest at these illegal interest rates. Therefore, only 14 June 2014 began to run out of time for all consumers who had agreed their loans with banks with illegal interest rates between 10 September 2003 and 31 December 2008. So now I'm going to list a number of courts, very important courts that have ruled first degree that the debtors must be returned to overpaid interest and tight interest, at full amounts since the start of the contractual relationship. These are the courts in Vukovar, Požega, Osijek, Bjelovar, Pula, Rijeka, Metkovic, Split, Dubrovnik. And the most important court in Zagreb also began to judge, because we are all afraid that the court in Zagreb will be tried because Zagreb is the most important Municipal Court, it is the largest. But here is the Municipal Court in Zagreb ruling in favour of consumers without limitation. What we must do again must be said, we must simply lay down by law how to negotiate the initial fixed interest margin in all contracts in which it is not agreed. We can also deal with overpaid interest by law, and we certainly have to solve the problem of foreign cooperatives, because those foreign cooperatives that have negotiated loans here did not have a license and all such contracts are worthless and they were not controlled by the Croatian National Bank. So I appeal to my HDZ colleagues first of all to decide finally because they know all about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25218	The HNS Club, HSU also called for a break. In their name will be the representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25219	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will say something about the announced national pension although it cannot be called that because there is no pension in the Croatian legal system that comes from the social system and pensions must be covered by the payment of contributions during the years of work. This is about retirement for those under quotes for those who have never been lucky enough to work and are over 65 years old. Otherwise we understand the idea I personally support both our party and our club and the coalition that was previously in power, because at that time a National Strategy against Poverty was adopted. But it's quite irresponsible to crack it at a time before the election, to handle a 1045 kuna figure without any criteria, or without a single draft of a special law that would regulate it. It all sounds nice together, but it can, correcting one injustice we can introduce new irregularities, new injustices into the pension system. Moreover, although proudly sounds like a statement by a well-known demographer, Mr. Schtretz, who says so, we give people who do not live in Croatia 750 million kunas of pension. My people, so you should know that these are individual rights that rest on contributions and that these people who live today in Serbia, Bosnia, Macedonia, Germany and Italy have worked here for a period of their lives, 5, 10 or 15 years. We cannot play with such statements because there are interstate and social agreements, agreements on the avoidance of double taxation on health insurance that regulates this matter and they are, we are obliged to pay it because otherwise it would mean that Germany because those who worked in Germany and now live here and receive Germany's pension could suspend our citizens' pension. It would be a parallel, it would be the same principle. Secondly, if it is said that there will be 1045 kuna for nothing, I don't know if the legislator thought that all those pensions that are now in 15 years are insurance and that they are 900 kuna that will also increase to 1045 kuna. And on what principle came exactly, I know what that figure is, that's the figure that in the fight against poverty is the minimum income per family member. That's awfully low. And intent, it's okay, but we can't talk about it without knowing how much it costs and whether it applies to the one who has the income of 10 apartments, so the property, the income from the property, that he's going to get that same pension, or how it's going to go all together. So, at this point in time with these allegations under quotes, national pensions, I call them state social support, and that's the only way it can be right. Without the criteria, it's quite irresponsible and it seems too much like a good pre-election test balloon. And it's particularly interesting for those with the least insurance training and these are rural environments, so it seems to me that the promoters targeted the electoral exactly rural environments to get some political point. I am that this material is done, let's say how many people have potential users, what are the criteria, if it takes six months, six months, if it takes a year, that we know where we are and that we have the picture and that we regulate that matter. It needs to be regulated precisely because the problem stems from the National Strategy against Poverty but not in this way. So, what I'm saying is we need to talk seriously, no matter how close the election is to such serious problems. There's no smarter side than the other side, we all know all about it if we want to. Therefore, let us not hunt ourselves in our own traps, traps of easy days of promise because it can cost us all and especially when someone announces that payment will begin in 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25220	The club of representatives of the Independent Lists also called for a break. On their behalf will be spoke by representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25221	Thank you, Mr. President. And today here I am speaking from this pay phone about one topic but primarily with a message from those who have been common in the last month and a half since we started talking again about how vaccination in Croatia still needs to be mandatory, threatening emails that I receive, all those who know me who know me will know that I am not particularly afraid of aggressive emails and pressures to try in some way to prevent what I am as a doctor and as a person who is responsible enough to think about this whole story but looking for consensus and professions and all political parties will not scare me. And for this reason, I would like to repeat once again from here what we have said in early March, by consensus on the parliamentary committee, where all parties, both SDP and HNS and HDZ and MOST, all together except the Living Wall, clearly said that vaccination in Croatia still has to be mandatory because we are endangering all our children by non-vaccination and reduction of child vaccination rates, and that is also a question of national security. Only a few data, which is to repeat that vaccination remains one of the most successful and profitable public health measures and takes a safe place in preventive healthcare. For your information in '77. We've radicalized all the natural forms of the great goddesses, we know how many threats they've been and how many hundreds of thousands of people have died of them. In 2002, the European region was declared a region without child paralysis. The introduction of a polya vaccine of about 5 million people was spared from the consequences of polio and vaccination against diphtheria, tetanus, pertusis and measles prevented up to 3 million people a year. So despite the recommendations of the World Health Organization, scientific and professional efforts to promote the importance of this measure and national legislation remain a large number of people dying from diseases that could be prevented by vaccination in the world. We are still satisfied in Croatia with our fissure and we can only thank it by the fact that our citizens' awareness is still such that they know it is necessary. But anti-vaccination movements with threats to all of us who clearly talk about the need for continued mandatory vaccination until the moment our entire nation is not legally regulated and considered as such. in Sweden where this is not an obligation but 100% of children have been vaccinated, until then we have to help because the aggressive approach of anti-vaccination groups that are marginal but pressure, by spreading information, especially through social networks, put pressure and thinking on those who read it and who are simply trying to think whether we are right, whether we are advocates of some pharmaceutical companies, whether all doctors are in some kind of, in the way that they might want to hurt children. They say we hide side effects. Every side effect must be logged in. And that is why after the meeting, means a parliamentary committee where I am very glad that we have all parties together concluded that vaccination is still necessary in Croatia to be mandatory. And I would like to point out that this as a law was sent to both the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court actually rejected the request because it did not find in the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases any elements that would be contrary to the Constitution. So the right of a child is here above the right of a parent and I stand behind it. After that, threats were made to me personally and through the MOST club, but I also trust all colleagues who were at the meeting, so at the board meeting, that we are the extended hand of some pharmaceutical companies who want to put pressure on them. After that, the profession once again felt that it was necessary to say its own and I am obliged here to inform you that the World Health Day conference was held, a conference was held at which professional societies, pediatric society, the Society of School Medicine, the Croatian Medical Chamber which organised it, representatives of the World Health Organization, representatives of the most important clinics and experts of infectants who well and clearly supported It's signed, just for a little while, the Declaration of the importance of vaccination where they repeated it again and sent a message as to how important this is. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Therefore, the anti-vaccination movement in Croatia will not go away because we still know the importance of this topic. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25222	Representatives Strenja-Linić timed out. Thank you. The HDZ advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will be said representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25223	Thank you very much, President. On behalf of the club, we will talk about national pensions, but also about the government's policy towards the pension population because it often gets the impression here in the assembly that this government doesn't care enough about pensioners and is trying to bend what this government is really doing about it. That we are very serious and that we want to bring into line with fiscal opportunities the measures relating to this population were clearly presented by Mr Plenkovic himself when he presented the Government but also his programme of government, which clearly states that the pension system is long-term unsustainable and that he is seeking certain reforms and changes. And that it is necessary to take certain steps to bring about these reforms and changes. We also wrote this, that the government's policy will be aimed at meeting the following objectives and I think that every move, especially the ministers, and the story of the national pension is exactly what the government says. First, to ensure a decent pension for pensioners, and to ensure a 5% increase in the mandate, means in the term of office within four years. Second, we will introduce national pensions that our colleague Hrelja spoke of today. And thirdly, we have clearly written that we will allow you to volunteer on the labour market even after 65 years. In order to ensure that, of course, we had to look at both the budget and the part relating to the fiscal capacity of the budget itself, and we can say first that we have brought amendments and additions to many tax laws. Based on these laws, we all know that 88% of pensioners do not pay any taxes, so that tax reform is based on them and there could be no increase in pensions. However, in the second part of those 200 thousand pensioners, there have been changes for the better in terms of higher income, i.e. Bigger pensions. As regards the collateral in the state budget, they are higher by 900 million kuna compared to 2015 in 2017 and compared to 2016. 578 million kuna. What does that mean? That in 2017, we will spend what we can, meaning with these 576 million kunas. It's that cost increase of almost 1.6%. What does that mean? 122 million refers to the transmitted cumulative effect of changing the number of users and the structure of the number of users. 5,000 new pensioners are expected in 2017, costing 100 million kuna. And of course synchronising total pensions, an increase of 300 million kuna. With this alignment it started from 1.1.2017 in the first part by 0.5% and from 1.7.2017 it will line up for an additional 0.8% and will amount to 300 million kuna. So we have our turn, we go in line with the budget, and we are fiscally responsible to achieve the goals that we have set for ourselves as Government. And as far as national pensions are concerned, it was something else that we wrote down in the government's programme, and there we clearly said that it would be for people over 65 who didn't have enough internships or didn't get in the work process at all, i.e. They didn't work. In order to achieve this, we must determine the procedure first. The procedure is certainly the first to adopt a strategy by the end of 2018 relating to persons who would receive a national pension. After that in 2019, I analyze the scope of the user. We're all talking about some 100,000 people aged 65 who live in the Republic of Croatia and have no income whatsoever. In order to adopt a legislative framework in 2020 and to be able to start paying off those pensions. As far as censorship is concerned, we have heard something about it from our colleagues, and it is important to say, it means that we will make sure that this includes what is called something and just. So we need to see clearly how many of these 100,000 people have a certain right of ownership, whether they have been in a working relationship and whether they have already paid contributions, whether a particular problem is rural space and especially women in rural space, which clearly simply for many reasons could not have certain work activity. And simply with that strategy for people over 65 years of age, we think that we can achieve what we have clearly promised and recorded in our government programme, and that is the time ahead and normally to talk about it because the draft strategy is in the public debate and I think that we will all get involved when it comes time to achieve what we have clearly written down and this government is responsible for the retirement population and clearly does everything that allows it to do with the budget and fiscal opportunities that we have brought in at the end of 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25224	Mr. Vice President, I apologize. I would ask for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club for conflicts of interest, information related to conflict of interest and the consequences that it may have on the stability and functioning of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25225	We can do these replicas five and then after that? ... Yeah, but you're in now on the side. [[You can't hear it, you can't hear it.]] Okay. [[I did. However, I ask you to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the usual legislative practice.]] Then we'll give a 10-minute break. So we continue at 11 o'clock and 10 minutes. It's 11 o'clock. Dear colleagues and colleagues, no, no, we'll be replicating after the break. Now, first on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honorable colleague Peja Grbin will take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u25227	Thank you, Vice President, for your understanding and for your consistent respect for the procedure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we requested this break because of conflicts of interest and its consequences for Croatian society but also the work and stability of the government. Although it would be logical and perhaps even likely to think that we were looking for it because of Mr. Maric, because of the position he is in and his recall that the SDP is launching today, that is not the case. What we're going to talk about now is much deeper and I would say much more dangerous for the operation of the Republic of Croatia. Today, information is published in Croatian media that states that the Law on Extraordinary Administration, the famous lex Agrokor is not only written in the government but that it is written by one law firm. And it's not just any law firm, it's a law firm that has indications that it's connected to a VTB bank. If you don't know, VTB bank is one of the biggest creditors of Agrokor and in case Agrokor goes into bankruptcy, its financial interests would be compromised. As you know, with the effect of lex Agrokor it is impossible for Agrokor to go into bankruptcy. The justice ministry reportedly was completely excluded from this law's preparation according to the same information. But the story goes on. According to information publicly available, this is exactly the law firm and is further linked to the whole story about Agrokor because the government's commissioner has been chosen to provide legal advice and services to a concert. I will repeat once again, a VTB-related law firm, with the creditor of Agrokora, is involved in the preparation of a law relating to Agrokor and subsequently representing Agrokor, who is now in the extraordinary administration. In short, if this information is correct, it is a conflict of interest that neither Sanader nor Karamarko would be ashamed of. Dear colleagues and colleagues this way and in order to remove these doubts that occurred after an article in Croatian media, we are asking for an urgent indication. So resolute in the government, above all, Vice President Dalic, given her involvement in this whole case and given the fact that she took responsibility for making the law on herself and excluded everyone else. So we're asking the government for the following answers. Is it true that external associates are engaged in the design of lex Agrokora? Which outside associates are hired? Are these external associates in any way related to the VTB Bank or other Agrokor creditors? And were these outside associates finally paid for that service and how much? The answer to this question will depend on whether in this case it is only a conflict of interest or something far more harmful and dangerous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36699	Thank you. We're going back to work. Today we intend to discuss three points. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 and the Proposal for a Law amending the law on value added tax. The first item of the agenda today is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 117; Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. In accordance with Article 206 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal of the Proposer has been adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session and the amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Nina Obuljen-Kožinek, Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36700	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. As noted in the announcement, the reform law is done and haste is primarily required because of the implementation of measures under the National Reform Programme, which refers to a reduction in the amount of direct monumental rent and the payment of indirect rent for reduced number of taxpayers, as well as the provision of more favourable conditions for the use of state and local funds for the restoration of cultural heritage. But let me go through the basics of this law very briefly. So other than one part relating to compliance with EU legislation, what are the key points that are being changed are the regulation of a period of 4 and 6 years for archaeological and underwater archaeological sites at which preventive protection for goods which are predicated to have the properties of cultural goods can be determined over an uninterrupted period of time, and this proposal excludes the possibility of extending the duration of preventive protection after the expiry of the prescribed deadline. This is extremely important in order to create better legal certainty for those planning certain investments on cultural goods and to break down the practice of a long-term extension of temporary protection measures. The provisions of insurance provisions for the collection of the costs of the temporary guardian of cultural goods are then specified. And what we find extremely important to point out is that the time obligation of the owners regarding the return of funds invested from the state budget in the protection of conservation and restoration of cultural goods is limited. So now we limit that time limit for funds to be returned if the sale takes place within 5 years. The repayment period in the case of sales has been reduced to that period of 5 years. For the reason that the Ministry of Culture provides grants, which usually represent extraordinary costs for the owner of cultural goods. I believe that this will foster greater interest in investment and investment and more active positioning in relation to the restoration of cultural heritage and in the case of private owners. Afterwards, the provision on the establishment of a legal publishing right on cultural goods is deleted,... Ensuring the return of funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is also very important, given that this law-making institute did not justify a function since the entry did not have a limited duration, which in some ways reduced the possibility of more active trading in real estate when it comes to protected cultural goods. In addition, the provisions in relation to licences are liberalised, i.e. the obligation to acquire professional titles, only for those acting in public institutions. In this way, more liberal approaches and encourages the inclusion of as many small entrepreneurs as they can through the work carried out by means of the state budget as well as the growing number of works financed from EU funds, to participate in the restoration and protection of cultural heritage. And in the end, I would point out two important provisions concerning the height of the monumental rent, which is monthly paid per square metre of the useful area of business space located in the immovable cultural goods from 1 to 7 kuna. Now it reduces from 1 to 4 kuna. The obligation to pay this rent should be highlighted, excluded from concessionaries and natural and legal persons who are overly engaged in processing and production activities, thus contributing to the disbursement of a series of activities that are again important for economic recovery. Finally, the continuation of the payment of indirect monumental rent is prescribed in the light of the performance of certain activities according to the national classification of activities according to the narrowed list. These are the most important points, if there are any questions we will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36701	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first club of MPs to report for participation in the debate is the HDZ representative club. Representative Jasen Mesic will speak for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36702	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, dear Mrs Mikec, we have heard in the brief presentation of the main point and the main motives for which the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Heritage with the Final Proposal of the Law has been adopted. We will remind the HDZ Club a little about those who don't know what the monumental rent is and how it came about, and we would like to point out why it matters. We think that the debate is just about these amendments and the addition of the law is the right opportunity to point to perhaps some who do not understand it. Therefore, the monumental rent was introduced with the main objective of providing additional funds for the restoration of Croatian cultural heritage in the Homeland War. I will remind the minister and her co-worker well knows that we, according to the Commission's assessment of war damage, had direct war damage on cultural monuments, i.e. cultural goods of nearly 300 million euros in the area of 40% of the state. In order to avoid these damages, it was necessary to find a modus where those of the cultural heritage of large tourist centres, the large cities of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split in some ways, will be able to restore cultural heritage to the state budget. Says the writer's castle is the city, and the city is the castle. It's thought of Eltz Castle. Only at the restoration of the Eltz Castle on the external physical reconstruction went 125 million kuna. Often we can also see in the media that there is no telling where 100 million kuna is spent annually. Otherwise, the 100 million is divided into 60% per state, the culture ministry's budget, and 40% remains local. If you take the information now that only in the reconstruction of the Eltz Castle went 125 million kuna for physical, external reconstruction, then we are very surprised at those who say in the media that they do not see where these funds are going. According to the magazine's research... 54% of tourists visiting the Republic of Croatia visit for cultural and natural heritage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no stronger marketing and promotional brand. There is not such a beautifully decorated hotel and such a good restaurant that in the marketing sense for Croatian tourism will be as strong as the Split Peristil, such as the town of Korčula, such as the Dubrovnik walls, such as the protection of the entire western Istrian cities. There isn't! Therefore, the use of monumental rent in the restoration of cultural goods is actually an investment in tourism marketing. Cultural heritage is an extremely important and national cultural identity, not only national, but also local. There is no Dubrovniker who will not be proud of his protected whole, there is no Split who will not be proud of the peritility, there is no Zagreber who will not be proud of the Upper City. Identification with cultural monuments is one of the main pillars of the long-term... links to the community and the whole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is no accident that the first documents of the 13th century were talking about the municipal statutes of the city of Korčula and Dubrovnik and the rest of Trogir actually created a common awareness of the city's belongings and then a medieval ethnos which later grew and grew into a modern national cultural identity. So investment in heritage is in the right sense and preservation of national cultural identity. When you look at the chart then you will see that the monumental rents over the last years have contributed to the restoration of hundreds of what mobile, which immovable cultural goods. Not only that, but the investment of the monumental rent, which is also the legal obligation to spend the monumental rent in that year when it was collected for the restoration of cultural goods, the monumental rent created the creation. We have here the exact data of creating 598 small businesses and crafts. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today in Croatia, in Zagreb you have two or three crafts that are able to make windows of the Croatian Parliament which is culturally good. If there were no monumental rent, that these people do not work programs to preserve cultural goods we in the Croatian Parliament would have no place to restore our windows. Today, in Croatia, you have two masters who know how to do the overworking of the Posavian and Turopolian wooden houses. You have in Croatia today such a lack and preservation of knowledge that has helped the monumental rent without saying that the number of cultural goods performers since 598, now multiply how many jobs it is and how much conservation and knowledge it is. So the investment from the monumental rent into cultural heritage keeps something called the immaterial cultural heritage because it protects the way of life in these protected units. Of course, the application and collection of cultural, monumental heritage must be in terms and the trend of what is necessary for overall and overall development. It is good, and it is seen in these changes that this key decision is still left in the local community whether it will determine from direct monumental rent itself per square metre of business space to be charged. It is good that traditional trades, state institutions, local institutions, institutions of national, social importance, are exempt from paying the monumental rent. But it's also good that those who have indirect business benefits, so let's mention one exchange, let's say, at the Zadar Kaleragic or the Dubrovnik Stradun. People don't come to change money in that exchange shop because it's the most favourable course and because it's the best change in dollar or the best change in euro than because it's in the monumental core. And a large part of its traffic, that exchange shop or that banking institution can thank just because it's positioned where it is. And of course there's a direct economic benefit because it's in such a monumental, cultural space. The memorial rent is nowhere in Europe, as far as I know, not under parafiscal force. She translates like... And she's kind of, a lot closer we could define it as some sort of concession fee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's only an obligation for one who earns economic gain from cultural heritage. If someone wants to make a exchange shop somewhere else and not on Kalerag or Stradun, there's no obligation to make monumental rents. But then I'm afraid it'll change badly. Therefore, there is no need to view the monumental rent as a difficulty but as an investment and the well-being of all these crafts and, consequently, the preservation of cultural goods. In the future, when the Strategy for Economic Use of Cultural Heritage is fully activated, it should and probably will do so in a certain way. The memorial rent should be possible to use and give local administration and self-government to use in other ways. Let's just say that it is a fuse for those funds that are derived from the EU, you know that some times they must be provided on their own, their own funds of 15, 25, 30%, 50%, therefore there is a possibility. From the monumental rent... and the means to revitalize our historical cores. Some historical cores drastically lose authentic locals who can no longer function according to modern life in protected areas. We have big problems with depopularization, there's a danger of it becoming the cities of the tower or just tourist softness. And in the future, the monumental rent can be used. So we believe that this sentence that remains in the summary that the monumental rent must be preserved and that it can no longer be reduced because it would indeed be with dramatic consequences for the preservation of cultural heritage. We believe that other clubs as well as the HDZ Club will be able to support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36703	The first replica to be presented by MP Mesic was by representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36704	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mesic, I have listened carefully to your presentation in which you have explained among other things the purpose of the monumental rent. Of course, first of all, we get funds from the economy that are then re-routed to preserving and maintaining cultural heritage which we can actually talk about then using monumental rent as a kind of cultural marketing and of course a strategic impact on cultural tourism as one of the fastest growing sectors in the field of tourism. The Minister explained that one of the effects, i.e. from the consequences of this law, is the application of a reduced number of taxpayers to pay an indirect monumental rent, which is certainly good for the economy itself in the context of the crisis that we have. As of 2011, when we had a classification of about 20, 25 of these activities in this proposal were reduced to 7 per classification not to list them now, which is certainly in these circumstances helping the economy. However, I am interested in your opinion, given that, however, big investments are needed in culture, do you think that at some reasonable time when the situation in the economy improves we can again influence the expansion of the number of activities in order to further expand the resources to maintain cultural heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36705	Replication response by representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36706	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your replica. So these amendments and additions to the law are the right measures for this time. I think that's where the ministry came out with an optimal solution for the present time. If this will be possible, and if, of course, the monumental cores will develop both economic activities and everything else, if they will bring income, hire people we believe they will and there is no reason and there is no reason to be able to do this step at one point which you have pointed out. So far, I think it's a good idea for this to stay at this level so the memorial rent doesn't be too much of a burden, and so that we can see the results of its positive impact. Because I say she must invest in the restoration of cultural heritage in the year she was collected. It's a legal obligation. It would be good to occasionally take control and consult with large cities that collect the most monumental rents. This is primarily Zagreb, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Split to see that the local part that collects the local community 40% is spent in the right way, whether it is spent the smartest and in some way that it goes affirmably towards the consumption of these funds and I believe that this would also give positive statements especially for these things that can be applied in the future to the monumental rent that in some ways a statement is found there and, of course, with time expansion of what you have said to other classification activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36707	Representative Blaženko Boban answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36708	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mesic, I agree with your part, with that debate and most of all, in part of the monumental rent is not a parafiscal imposition, it is not mainly where we have cultural heritage in terms of the buildings that you have listed here as Dubrovnik walls, Korčula, Zadar, Arena. However, there are archaeological sites and very significant and valuable on which there are no buildings and therefore have no monumental rents. It's about a salon that has over 100,000 meters of square archaeological sites of extremely valuable value, and there's no kuna related to that monumental rent. In addition, this is why local communities invest when they are building certain projects, it must be costing the project by 30% or 40%, and it is also lost to 30.40% in the deadline implementation of such new projects in the area of such local communities and such archaeological sites. Do you think it is also necessary to think about such sites that it could be invested in them without falling all the burden on the local community and the city budget, the local community in order to maintain the level of this archaeological site needed somehow in terms of either tourist archaeological tax or I don't know what it is. Because a large number of tourists really visit such sites, and there is no other option and unfortunately there is no possibility because fortunately, the local community has preserved such a locality that it has not built on it, it has not built on it, it has not allowed devasting, and with this local community there is still an additional burden when building new projects that I was talking about and through the memorial rent there is no fee. So the monumental rent is not a parafiscal imposition. Even more so, for some other localities of such values or localities that the city has arranged For its own purposes, no monumental rent can be charged. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] We should find a new model there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36709	Reply to the replica, MP Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36710	Dear colleague Boban, you're absolutely right. You are in the city of Solin in some way blessed, and at the same time given to you for inheritance and great care. Because only when you take Salona, Our Lady's Island, Vranjic, Šuplja church, Gašpina mill, so it's such a concentration of cultural goods you want archaeological, you want architectural, you want underwater, you want of national importance, you want of international importance. So I can actually say that the town of Solin was in some way fortunate to have had leadership, including you while you were the mayor who understood the importance of this monumental heritage for the city of Solin. Therefore, it is precisely where such projects in such cases, especially this and of national particularly historical national importance, must have priority in funding programmes from that part of the monumental rent that the state collects in order not to now introduce a new method of collection. And certainly just such programmes must be kept in mind by the Cultural Goods Council when it proposes funding protection programmes for the Minister of Culture for Authorisation. There are also, and I know that you are very agile and in new project preparations, preparing projects for the EU, etc. so that I think there is a certain possibility and, of course, with time with the correct tourist and marketing development and good payment of tourist tickets and visitors. It's actually paradoxical that just the most visited are those monuments where the map and ticket are the most expensive. I believe it will be in the perspective of Solin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36711	Thank you. The next replica is honorary colleague Antun Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36712	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague here you have told one great truth in your presentation, which is that one of the greatest motives is coming to the Republic of Croatia to visit, so our cultural heritage and visit to these same monuments. I believe that definitely memorial rent is not an imposition, it is an investment in tourism. However, I must point out that this is not enough investment, therefore in the very cultural, in the very cultural objects. And on the other hand, we have one limiting factor when investing in such projects and with EU funds that only 20% of the total space can be commercially exploited in that part. Let me tell you an example of Kaštel in Svetvinčent in one of the most preserved castles in Istria where only 20% can be used for commercial purposes. So to put it inside, to design some sort of accommodation, shops, exchange offices, what you mentioned, etc. So I think that a better design, changing a legislation in this sense might help in one future and reducing the monumental rent but to increase one commercial, commercial usability of these objects because we have a lot of examples where objects are renovated, where they get their purpose in terms of one cultural preservation, but there's nothing about it because they're not being used for commercial purposes. So we think that this should be done, so that we definitely don't beat the funds we're into preserving the walls but also our purpose to get these objects because then we're really going to have a good example of how, so not just something tax burden but how it can be for ourselves the purpose of cost-effectiveness of these objects.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36713	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36714	Dear colleagues can agree with you, the ministry recognized the problem. And one of the first steps towards resolving this and the greater activation of cultural heritage was both the renewal and publication of the digital register. Finally, the goal of this should be that every potential investor in any reconstruction, whether in economic... cultural heritage can see where that, with which monument can invest in what new purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will agree that some monuments of the type of our Euphrasians cannot go into any other function than those they have. However, there are monuments that can have a new purpose. Of course, when you have more than a hundred cuisines and castles and castles only in Croatia Zagorje, of course all 100 can not be museums, they should be the most valuable ones that cannot change the internal layout, which in time remained the most preserved, most representative but of course there are objects that can get a new purpose and a new investment in putting other commercial content that could be obtained there. Any potential investor who could go there in the long term or in a long term concession or in a long-term investment would have to see very transparently in that digital register that in this space I can do so, I can't do that with that and that goal. I believe it's yours, too, that your intervention and replica was exactly that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36715	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable colleague Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36716	I thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Mesic, for sure what you said about preserving cultural heritage is important and should be restored safely and all in order to develop and create additional offers. However, what you said and confirmed by Mr. Kleman that these investments are also said in tourism marketing and that a large percentage of tourists visit exactly the Republic of Croatia due to rich cultural and natural heritage. However, all of this is still insufficient and we believe that just passing this law will encourage the restoration of that cultural heritage and create new destinations for the guests who are coming. But you said the memorial rent wasn't forced, so I'm saying it's imposed after all. And you mentioned in your presentation the creation of profits but you mentioned those great cities like Dubrovnik, such as Zadar, as well as, I can say add Rovinj and Poreč, but we forgot some small places where the local community is just investing together with the Ministry of Culture in Reconstruction, I will say small places such as Grožnjan, Gračisje, Motovun, Završje, Pićan. And just restoring these old city cores of these monumental units to local units is a great burden and a great problem for life to return to. And now that you find the owner or city or unit of local self-government that invests in such a space, there is a certain activity in that area that unfortunately works that 3, 4, 5 months while the tourist season is going on and then we impose on them that rent that is certainly burdening them. I will say that units of local self-government precisely in order to encourage the opening of certain activities in these abandoned monumental units with the release of municipal compensation and incentives encourages And we... [[Invader Jandroković: Thank you colleague Demetlika.]] Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36717	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36718	I agree that a lot of effort is being put into the reconstruction of both Pyemante and Portole, so that we understand each other. One of your biggest investments was the Ministry of Culture in Istria, the restoration of the bell towers in Oprtlje. So as far as this is concerned, these funds are collected from that monumental rent in other cities. Here we have a respected and respected colleague list of monumental rents by cities for 2016, the first 70, I haven't found. Here's the 55th is, let's say, Buzet, if you thought of it that way, even though it's a serious town that has collected 79 thousand kuna's monumental rents. Buzet is still a place that lives for 12 months. And when you look at the classification, when you look at the classification, then you'll see that you're doing all this stuff that you're doing locally to revitalize these funds that they're actually not going to get into what the taxpayers would say in the scissors of the monumental rent but rather remain in some way excluded. It's right by the classification when you see it, that's why I'm saying the Ministry found the right measure. It will not be touched by local craftsmen or local farmers or those who open small pensions will not in this way, but rather by classification they will remain on the sidelines for one day until the situation may be better. We'll agree, and so will you and I, just in these papers you've mentioned for 50 years, there's no filter in them. You can say this well for both Završje and Oprtalj, for the cities di just recently began to invest more seriously both by the ministry and by local administrations and self-government. That's where we'll probably agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36719	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36720	Dear Vice President, the memorial rent is a very important item in financing maintenance, restoration, restoration of cultural heritage, as well as all cultural goods. But it's just one drop in the sea that it takes to preserve one culturally well-preserved, to preserve for future generations, generations to come. And I don't know how many monumental rents to pick up and invest money in culture unless it's kept, unless she's lost looking for a return. We can create as many generations before us as we want if we can't keep it from those who want it. So on the other hand, I will mention a cultural heritage, and it says: “3833 books have been returned to Vukovar after the war was over in '92. You take the years out of the Vukovar monastery library first to Shid, then to Zemun. There, from the officers of the former JNA, they were taken by Pater Fr. Marko Kurot and placed in the Franciscan monastery of St. Ivan Kapistan in Zemun. This is only part of a library fund of 17000 volumes owned by a library in the Vukovar monastery. Books arrived in Vukovar only one day from Belgrade. The most valuable book in our 1501 monastery was a medical book that was estimated to have market value so that half of Vukovar could be purchased before the war. We had 6 uniques and 13 incunabulas and it is particularly valuable for Croatia 70 books of Karisime Croatie, the first books printed in Croatian before 1500." Return the robbery. [[/Intrudica Jandroković: Thank you, colleague Culej. Time has run out, unfortunately.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36721	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36722	I understood your line well, and I'm glad you gave the order. I said that one of the motives for the introduction of the monumental rent was precisely the damage to cultural goods caused by the aggression in Croatia in the Homeland War. About 300m euros were estimated to be direct damage on immovable cultural monuments, and of course you cited examples of moving cultural goods. For many years, the ministry has been well known to me this topic has been particularly highlighted here by our distinguished colleague now retired Mrs. Branka Šulc, who was otherwise born Iločan who made a lot of efforts to track down a large part of the alienated cultural heritage and afterwards restore cultural heritage. Unfortunately, much of it has never been found and will never be found. Fortunately, however, one part is, this process is going, it is about the return of many collections. You'll only remember the return of the Bauer collection to the Vukovar Museum. Of course, there's a big problem with special church collections, it's a big problem with a lot of legacy. You will remember Ottavovic, Meštrovic's mausoleum and everything else that suffered in the Homeland War. And I believe that the Ministry of Culture will bring this job to an end and somehow save what barbarism didn't destroy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36723	Thank you. We are moving on to the next discussion of the SDSS Club and the esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36724	Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. An important legal amendment that has two persons first is positive, and the second is less positive. It is positive that you have managed to defend the Institute of Monumental Rents, and it is negative that you have limited and reduced it. It would be extremely important for MPs to say who it is and why it lobbyed so much that the monumental rent was abolished. What are these interesting groups that believe that one of the most important sources for the preservation of cultural heritage in the Republic of Croatia for its restoration and maintenance has insisted that this is too much of an imposition, as the colleague says. And why is it just this pretense and not 38 other intrudings that exist on different grounds? That seems an important question to me. Because we know very well that if taken on one side or reduced the inflow of funds into the state budget on one side of the source, it will have to increase on the other. Or the state budget will not be a place where funds can be used to restore cultural goods. Then who's going to do it? It's either no one or private. Are we going to limit this country's function one more time? It is therefore positive that the Institute of Monuments is an important element in the protection of cultural monuments and objects protected by the state, which are part of the cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia. However, I have two specific questions. The first is the amendment to Article 42 of the Law. Therefore, the state will invest in the restoration of the monumental heritage, participate in the restoration of the monumental heritage, and after 5 years if the owner of that facility decides that there will be no obligation to sell it on the basis of the return of funds invested by investors in this case of the restoration office. That's another way to go on hand actually to private owners. The previous legal solutions were more demanding in this regard and the state had a more serious and lasting impact in this regard. However, the second question concerns the amendment to Article 114 of the Law, under which the amount of the monumental rent will be reduced from 1 to 7 kuna per square metre for the useful area used to be reduced to from 1 kuna to 4 kuna. I think it is, that we should know how much this will reduce the funds the state budget receives or arrives on the basis of this change. And the consequences of this will be produced by the Ministry of Culture, according to the restoration institutions, because as we know, the monumental rent is one of the main sources of restoration and restoration. The reduction by a potential 3% is a significant reduction. I will not even talk about tourist aspects because I agree with my colleagues that it is not enough but I will talk about protecting the cultural goods that the Republic of Croatia has to do with it. I will talk about the function of the state in preserving what is considered national wealth whether it is natural or cultural national wealth. And I'll talk as I've already started redistributing social wealth. Who are we gonna take it from? If we don't take from those who earn, who earn, who have profits, we'll take from the one who has the pay. Either there won't be, or there won't be a renovation. The third thing is the question of the debtor, so the question of Article 116 or not 116, 114a. Rent is paid by natural and legal persons who carry out the following activities, trade in large, tobacco products, perfumes and cosmetics, on small tobacco products and in specialized shops, telecommunications other than the maintenance of the communication network and transmission of radio and television programmes, monetary intervention, auxiliary activities in financial services other than insurance and pension funds, gambling and betting activities. Why aren't there those who deal with energy sales and distribution? Aren't profits in this kind of activity also very high? Aren't some aspects of state subsidies extremely high when energy production and distribution are on Wednesdays? Shouldn't that branch also be considered as a potential branch in which to take part in a memorial rent? I ask out loud, I think out loud. I'm thinking because obviously it's not realistic to go back to a rate of 1 to 7 kuna per square metre. In other words, if we go to the limit of the amount of the monumental rent and we actually achieve that restriction by two ways, it is one reduction from 1 to 7 kuna to 1 to 4 kuna. And another by limiting the number of taxpayers who need to pay the monumental rent. Why, for example. big tenants wouldn't be covered by paying the monumental rent? I don't know what it looks like with users of objects for tourist purposes, I don't have the right knowledge, I don't have the right standards, I don't know what it would mean in these circumstances for tourism activity. But for these two I mentioned, so energy and renting a business space or something else, that's big profits. In addition, the Committee on Culture, Education and Science has given the ministry a suggestion in this respect when it comes to this law. I would like to remind you of this recommendation by the board itself, to consider extending the payment obligation of the monumental rent. At the end of the respected colleagues and colleagues, we have facilities that are already covered by the programme of protection and which are users of monumental rents, and we have some that are not. Some of our colleagues mentioned small towns, for example, in Istria, well - known and dear. But there are small towns all over Croatia, I will mention some of them. It's one of those cities of the Glin that we have the house of the national anthem, which was restored 10 years or more than 10 years ago but was not arranged or put into office, nor put under the protection of the state in the right way. There are others in that city, but none of them are as symbolic as that one. I would remind you of that because it does not require great funds, and for that city, for that region, for that county, except for the symbolic importance of that place where our national anthem was first performed, they exist and it has been renovated by the State's resources and has been designated as a house of the national anthem. But there's no end of the program, no arrangements for the museum. I'll mention another city, some closer, some less close to Sibenik. In Sibenik we have the house of one of the first novelists in Croatian, in Serbian, in our language Sima Matavulj, the first novelist of modern novel. His house isn't turned into a memorial house, and he has every assumption of being converted. Of course, it is possible to imagine that the funds are secured from different sources, but the continued provision of funds for such facilities will either go from direct State budget funds or will go from funds such as these, such as the monumental rent. I won't mention other objects, I won't mention everything we have to do in the city we live in, I won't mention what many could or would like to be different in other cities, but city authorities have their priorities and their policies in this regard. And it's not always the wisest thing that we're doing here to make them think what's good, which is not good, so I'm not gonna do it either. But some of the key things, of what represents exceptional national values, are necessary to keep in mind from here. And it is especially necessary to keep in mind this instrument of monumental rent. So I don't underestimate the demands and interests of employers because I've often listened to them too much, so they've often mentioned the monumental rent, because it means nothing to them, but it has to mean something to us. So culture and education, health care can't be just a matter of assessing how much one can make, how much one can't make. If we look at it that way, and if we only bring the whole thing down to the question of muralism and someone's well-being, then we as a small state have no chance, and we have no right to call on anything about culture as rightly as we do and often call on it. For this reason, it is good that you have protected the Institute of Monumental Rents, but I ask you on behalf of the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party to consider the possibility of expanding to these several activities by the debtors of those who pay the monumental rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36725	Thank you. We have five... Thank you for continuing with the replicas. Dear colleague Kleman first came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36727	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Pupovac, therefore I agree with you that never enough money to restore and preserve and put into function cultural goods. However, we have one problem in the Republic of Croatia and I think that this will have to be done well and this is management with the same cultural monuments, what I mentioned earlier in the replica of my colleague Mesic, so there are objects that can be commercially used and thus contribute to the preservation of the cultural heritage itself, i.e. a concrete monument. A few, three years ago, I was in Edinburgh, Scotland, and you know that there were hundreds of years ago a Latin Church as a religion, or as an official religion, a state religion in Scotland, and there are many Catholic churches left untapped, so there are no more believers who can do that, who attend, no longer have the interest of the Catholic Church to maintain them, that there are them in its catalog. I was surprised to see that in these churches today there are libraries, today cafes and all these monuments operate in a way, so with their shell, with their external shape and contribute to one look, I would once say the tourist attractions of Edinburgh itself and they work. I guess, and I've been asking around how it works. So one part of the incomes generated in these cultural monuments goes to preserve that cultural heritage. So very similar to ours, but there's a completely different approach. So there's a model where it can be made and I'm not calling for it to be in some of ours, so neither in Catholic, Orthodox or any kind of church that kind of model but it is, there's a model to solve it. But something is in favor of what you were saying, which is yes, we have received announcements from the Minister of Tourism that a new Law on Tourist Communities and residence tax will be done this year. Since we know that the great motive for the arrival of tourists in Croatia is cultural heritage, I think we should consider also the distribution of the tourist tax, that one part of the tourist tax or most of what it is today to reroute to preserve cultural monuments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36728	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36729	Dear colleague Kleman, your mention of the experience you have gained in Scotland is a good example and of course there are such experiences in a number of countries. I can also mention my experience in Switzerland regardless of whether it is a Catholic or Protestant church where former monasteries are used for scientific seminars, for meeting teachers, students, in general people who are in the field of education or in the sphere of science as well as for other purposes that can ensure the flow of funds, given the reduction of activities of either sisterly or monastic order. And in this respect it is something that we would certainly do where possible and where there are assumptions either in the Catholic Church, whether in the Orthodox Church or in a third church we could practice in Croatia. But it's up to them to decide and to adopt that kind of understanding of things as an integral part of their business philosophy. But mentioning the example certainly is an incentive that can also become representatives of our churches. When you mention a residence tax, I agree. Tourist tax is one of the possible sources, so a slightly higher amount for cultural heritage restoration needs in the area of tourist environments, and I am glad that you mention it as a former tourism minister, to mention as a man who comes from Istria who has one of the biggest tourist incomes, i.e. products in the Republic of Croatia, and we welcome it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36730	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed counterpart Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36731	Dear colleague, I've listened carefully to your exposure. I understand your tendency and suggestion to consider the possibility of expanding to other activities. Of course it always remains an option in perspective. It evaluated the ministry after the debate that it is these activities that are covered by indirect rent payments that are actually the ones that have directly the largest benefit from economic activity in cultural heritage, i.e. protected totals. This range of 1 to 4 leaves local administration and self-government, and not from 1 to 7 really the possibility of not being imposed on anyone but, in fact, that through these means of smart determination, a certain revitalisation can be determined. Of course some places that are top destination will have maximum per square payment of direct rent of 4 kuna. Somewhere it might really be kuna. Personally, I would prefer to see more economic activity in the protected cultural core itself, so I would prefer it to be 4, 5, 6 business entities that pay for one kuna than one or two who pay for seven. Because it seems to me that it would contribute to the revitalization and in the long run it would be a much better message for that core. You are familiar with depopulation problems in many old cities and protected cores, so that in some ways there can be a maximum out of this legal framework at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36732	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Mesic, you are not far from what I think we could agree on. But if the matter is such that units of local self-government can freely decide whether to prescribe one kuna or to prescribe four kunas regardless of the possible criteria, I'm afraid the question is also the question to what extent they're even prescribing and what kind of supervision of law enforcement is. And how many of the ministries have mechanisms and how many other state institutions have mechanisms to make the collection of monumental rents happen. Let's say for some other parafiscal intrusions, we know very well that this is very effective. For example, there was often talk of ZAMP. It's very effective in ZAMP. If a cafe does not pay or another user controls is extremely fast and extremely strict. Is this the case with the collection of the monumental rent? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. So, in addition to this, the legislature should in this case, with the help of other state institutes, strengthen the mechanisms for the collection of monumental rents and of course distribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36734	Thank you. Next replica, dear fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36735	Dear colleague Pupovac, I agree with you that the memorial rent is not a parafiscal imposition and it must not be understood. However, we are in one situation, and it is objective when those who have to pay it experience it. Not only does this happen because they do not understand the need and the monumental rents and the need to preserve the cultural goods that we have and their restorations, but often because it can occur if the coverage of the activities is too large or on the other hand if the area where the memorial rent is collected is too large. And here you have offered one criterion that I think could be quite dangerous and that this unfavourable trend could increase, and that criterion could be the height of the profits. It's not, I couldn't agree with you to make that a good criterion. Therefore, the monumental rent must be paid by one who has a direct benefit, benefit from what works in that protected area. For example, a pastry man will sell more ice cream if he works on Kaleragi than he does in the suburbs. So he's got a direct benefit. Well, he's not coming to his candy store because he's making better ice cream than because he's on his way there, and that's where the tourists are going. Therefore, that level of profit regardless of activity would seem to be a bad criterion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36736	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36737	Dear colleague Stazic, we're starting from the assumption that the two of us differ in profit and profit levels. You know what the saying says, a lot of traffic and a little serious profit, thinking about profit. There are activities that have exceptional profits and extra profits. There are those like you, and those you mentioned who work hard 16 hours a day earn and earn and pay their dues neatly. I wasn't thinking about you and you weren't even covered by this law. Those covered are listed in these 7 categories. And we suggest that we consider the possibility that those who deal with energy, sell and distribute energy not ice cream and those who are engaged in renting business space while considering it. Not those who, for example, are. They are engaged in the sale of souvenirs in summer time in Motovun or Sibenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36738	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36739	Dear colleagues, I wonder, this is more for Mrs. Shored than for Mr. Pupovac, she's talking to someone now, looking for some answers here. The first question is whether the memory, whether it's imposed on memory, the collective memory of our people primarily, you have an international conflict agreement, to return archives, state... from Belgrade, there's another one back there from World War II. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've still got there in the M.O.P. State Archives, archives from the MUP, of course, where you have... The names of people who used to sit in the Assembly as “Degenerek, colleague of Owl, Tree, Filter 57” and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is there any way to force that memory? And when anyone asked of this, I'd say, I call them first... Yugoslavian in Croatian politics, has anyone ever asked for the return of the archives from Belgrade? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's part of our archive. Not to mention the direct war damage of $34 billion straight, that's another question. How much does it belong... cultural goods that have been alienated and medieval churches, etc., how many cultural monuments have been destroyed, we don't know all the details yet? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for after the return, we also have this same international conflict agreement, for the return of those goods stolen from here and sold today in London, Stuttgart, etc. And that's the two key questions. And I would ask for answers if not right now, right now, later, from those who are in charge of these questions and when it will start.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36740	You are aware that you have broken the Rules of Procedure, that you did not have a replica on your colleague Pupovac, you have already asked the Minister what you yourself said, I have let you speak. If he wants Mr. Pupovac to answer but you should have addressed that question to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36741	Mr. Chairman, when I am a minister, I will answer that question and since it will never be the answer, the answer will come.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36742	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the club debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS and HSU Representatives, dear colleague Goran Beus-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36743	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the HNS and HSU Club supports the debt in which these 16 articles of the law amending the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods are actually liberalised. As liberals, we welcome all efforts that will reduce the procedural gaps on the one hand, narrow down the discretionary right of decision-making of the state administration, and also enable a larger and wider entrepreneurial initiative and, of course, narrowing down the area of parafiscal burdens. This is a parafiscal imposition whatever you're telling me about it. In the following year, he ceases to be parafiscal and becomes fiscal, but later on. To talk about amendments and amendments to the law only in light of the monumental rent I think it is a failure because this law opens several other important issues in 16 of its articles. First of all, it narrows down the space in which they occurred, so I would say the abuses that led to low, very low, critically low levels of management or the achievement of economic activities on cultural goods. We have a National Strategy, it hasn't been spent in years. And fellow Mesic, when mentioned, rightly mentioned, she was adopted in his term, it is an excellent document but no one commits him. The level of use of our cultural heritage in the public interest and for the purpose of obtaining public goods is cardinalally low. The way we treat ours, above all the monumental heritage, is total nonsense. On the one hand, very high criteria are not at all prevented from talking about it or from happening, and on the other hand we are letting the monumental elements of the front row fall. If we were to compare ourselves with others, let's say the Czech Republic, you'd be shocked to see how the Czech Republic took care of the monumental heritage, of the building blocks, of its castles and fortifications for protected medieval parts of old historical cities, and this is heaven and earth compared to our practice, and of course we're full of mouth stories that we're a country of rich cultural heritage, that our tourists worship our culture and heritage especially the building heritage and that these are the important reasons for their arrival. Yes, they are. Unfortunately, little what else we can give them, so among these priorities it is difficult to break the quality of attraction, the level of living in our destinations etc. These amendments and additions raise some more questions such as the obligation to acquire professional titles in non-public and natural persons. Generally taking that as a good provision, we must be aware of this can cause a whole series of problems. Let's just take one level of that problem, and that's the restoration of old facades. With the restoration of old facades, it is mainly the restoration of roof wreaths and roofs. It is rare for houses with monumental plastics and procedures that require high levels of conservation and restoration knowledge. In the city of Zagreb, these jobs are obtained by companies that have no such profile, but are taken as a cooperative, or subcontractor. And then you happen to have a bizarre situation, let's say, at the restoration of buildings belonging to the Constitutional Court, there's a few meters from us, an excellent restorer saves all the forged bars on the ground floor windows, establishes extraordinary quality and saves them for the next hundred years happy to save something of exceptional value and then comes the investor's representative and says it's all moving because they have to put a new forged grid on each window. An example of such a type will be found in the city of Zagreb in the Lower City as much as you will, where those who are professional and licensed cannot get a job on charges of giving dumped prices, and jobs are given by those who offer two or three times the cost, i.e. cost a lot more. When you know that tenants, co-owners of these buildings are involved in costs, then it's open robbery as such because what they have to pay for has to go to the bank for credit because few today have 70, 80, or 100 thousand kuna in their account, and in fact everything could be settled with twice the money. And it is a public secret that has been linked to the Zagreb Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments for more than 10 years. We also remember the case of the restoration of one of the facades in Ban Josip Jelačić Square when there was a devastion and damage to Meštrovic's relief. Whether this provision liberalises the obligation of natural and legal persons who are not public institutions and participate in reconstruction, restoration and conservation activities will open an additional space for them or we will indeed establish high criteria by regulation and not allow them to be savage. Furthermore, capital investment funds in culture are drastically reduced at both national and local level. The memorial rent's already been cut. Long ago, those golden times were for Minister Biskupić when large budgets were intended for these purposes. That's all we can dream about right now. The culture sector has been getting less and less money in the state budget for years and, of course, they're saving the plant, and they're neglecting big investments. On the other hand, we did not consider EU accession as an opportunity to engage EU funds for these needs. Cardinally, there are few projects to protect the monumental heritage and put it into office and to be funded from EU funds. And that's something amazing. It's ringing the alarm. The Ministry of Culture should pay attention to this fact at the highest possible level. What's really going on? Is it a matter of necessity, of unpreparedness, of unaccountability to create such projects and applications? If so, then we urgently need to start working on getting teams in local self-government able to define such projects and then apply to EU funds. We have one case that has both good and bad connotations. It is the restoration of the westernmost monument of Ottoman architecture in Europe. It's the famous Maskovic Han in the crow near Pakostan. It's a local community-owned facility that set up an agency through which she hired very serious funds, and construction works were completed two years ago. And Han who was never really finished because Jusuf Pasha Maskovic, a native of the region, was executed before he finished his Vakuf now looks great. But he's been standing empty for two years, he's out of office. And that's a shame. On the other hand, it is impossible for what happens there, or what happens, to happen, and that is that the most cheap materials are used in the interior. Pipes you can buy in a local store or such ceramics. In the first row object, where you actually have to imitate the style of building the time it was created. And all that can be done. We have the same experts who are able to make taps, who are able to make quality ceramics not for God knows how much bigger money. That object still stands empty. Our relationship to cultural good is sometimes so conservative and rigid that we do ourselves harm. He's been trying to take two exhibitions to Istanbul for years. This is an artefacts exhibition from the ship that sank at the island of Gnalic owned by the ancient museum in Biograd at sea, which was headed to Istanbul on the orders of the Sultana Nurbana and that is the second one, the cargo of the ship that sank at Mljet almost the same time, it is only the last decade of the 15th century in the opposite direction, on the 16th pardon century only in the opposite direction from Istanbul wearing an outward ceramic for Venice. For 3 years, it has been trying to show up at the most famous Istanbul museums. The Turkish cultural public is extremely interested in it, we have done everything we can to avoid it. I don't know why. Instead of promoting our cultural protection that is unrepeated, we are doing our utmost to make sure that no one sees it. As for simplifying procedures and reducing parafiscal burdens, as I said, we welcome it in principle. But when we talk about the monumental rent, let's be honest. 25 activities cut to 7, below 1. Under 2nd of these provisions on memorial rent will only be valid until the end of this year. 1.1.2018 enters into force the provisions of the Law on Local Taxes which have been declared as local tax and the right of local self-government to establish from 1 to 12 coefficients and the manner and type of collection of the monumental rent. It's probably a little more just. But let's be aware that this is just a temporary measure. So it's going to be from 1 to 4 kuna and it's going to only apply to 7 activities now, it's going to be worth it by the New Year's Eve. But speaking of which, we're also talking about key problems, and that's the discretionary right of the conservatory restoration service to expand the spaces of protected zones beyond any sense. In Velika Gorica, a protected zone comes to a point and, for example, in the external 3 hundred meters, there is not one single facility over 100 years old. The only relevant cultural heritage object is one gift. But everyone in that zone, the store, the hairdressers, they all had to pay a relatively high rent. And of course people are angry, they have no use for being declared a protected zone. Or downtown. The amazing stubbornly guarded matrix of the impetuous Pannonian village and Velika Gorica is not allowed to define its center of town. There's an even more drastic case on Brijuni, around St. Catherine, too. For years, the only thing that's been going on for years is so that nothing happens. The protection we declare all the time in practice does not exist at all. Over a thousand Turkish wooden houses have been destroyed in the last eight years. They were cut into two metres of mountain length, and within hours they ended up in the Rijeka port export gatta. They went to Egypt or to northern Italy as an interior decoration material, rustic villas or whatever. All this was well known by the Ministry of Culture and the competent conservatory service, they did nothing. These are organized gangs that come buying from the locals of the barns, garters, wooden houses in relatively bad shape for small money but the construction costs a lot. We haven't done anything, we've been in the ethno village of Kravaščica, which has been built for 8 years, where 55 houses were to be raised by order of Croatian waters, a local stream that was supposed to be one of the attractions of concrete, we've built a concrete trough of a local stream and then we'll call it the ethno village tomorrow. The Ministry of Culture didn't run off on the subject. So let's be aware of our hypocrite, proclaiming the highest level of stitching and in practice it's not happening. It only happens if you have to stop the entrepreneurial initiative, the new content, the new attraction, and that's where we fall. The heritage that is not used is a wasteful heritage, let's be aware of it, and therefore we are responsible, this generation who sees numerous monuments of culture being mocked, which become healed in drab and I say we are still verbally strong, strong and favorites of our famous Croatian culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36744	Thank you, too. We have six replicas. First came the honorary colleague Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36745	Dear colleague Beus, I've listened to you very carefully, with some things I might even agree with. If you find a country that treats this kind of separation and puts it in the paraphysic sphere, I'll withdraw my grade but you won't find it. That's the first thing. The second thing, therefore, is translated as the price of using cultural heritage for economic purposes. Because by that logic, any other price payment in any area would have entered what you said, so it's not done. No matter what you're here as liberals to interpret us. As for the individual monuments, you know... Your protection has a 150-year tradition in some parts of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every year, it's working somewhere and it's funding about two to two to two thousand projects. I let a few mistakes happen every year. I'm letting you somewhere... Maybe they didn't do the best. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm allowing the service to also study through some projects. Some of us met for the first time. Let's say with... We met for the first time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've been operating on the project documentation myself. I was in charge of the project co-ordinated by the Council of Europe, the Council of Europe, and in some ways they were contradictory. As for wooden houses in the triangle Zagreb, Karlovac, Sisak has about 5,000. They can't all be cultural goods, and not all states can save them, not even the local community. But I do know that in 2010, 2011, even in 2012, nearly 60 programmes of rebuilding individual wooden houses were financed each year. About ethnic villages and what we can discuss professionally Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Intruder Jandroković: Around the stream I wanted.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36746	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36747	Dear fellow Mesic, I highly appreciate your commitment and understanding of this problem and there is nothing to object to. But as far as the fact is concerned, whether this is a parafiscal imposition or not, I think you should contact the government. The government has been calling you a parafiscal intrusion in four terms and whenever you talk about cutting the parafiscal imposition of the monumental rent is on the list. So it wasn't me who invented it. It was them. As for the protection of this wooden architecture, I'm glad that you personally saw what it looks like, but I'd also like you to see what it's in right now. So, that everything was stolen, that what was raised was devastated, that the stream was destroyed, that the valley in which the lake was supposed to be destroyed completely and that the man who entered that investment raised his hands from everything and that was one of the most valuable things that we had in this zone when it came to the ambience of the original architecture of that type. Unfortunately, there's obviously no understanding. I hope that attitude will change and that they will be much more engaged because there are not many other Turopolian Chards left in Marclin, Bushevec, very few, gone, and they are incredibly important. And let's just say up until a few years ago, there was no film-recorded redundancy of the Turopoly House or its migration. I was at the time when I was Deputy Mayor in Velika Gorica started the project and we made several such films on the documentation. I learned a lot. Between the third and fourth planks on the left side of the door when you enter must be a coin if the house is not prepared. So these are all some wonderful stories that will more or less fail if we don't have respect for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36748	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I agree with everything you have said, and I would like to add in that segment that you mentioned discretionary law, and especially in the segment on the subject here, I will specifically speak for the city of Zagreb and I will give a plastic example of how to abuse de facto discretionary law already on Runjan's street where the Ministry of Culture is number two. On the number four, there is a Health Center which, by decision of the city of Zagreb itself, exempts itself from the obligation to pay the monumental rent. Far 50 meters away on Crnatko Street is a dental office from my one colleague who is required to pay a monumental rent although according to the Health Protection Act both perform public-health activity in a contractual relationship with HZZ. So, no profit base. And that way of looking discreetly, or even saying that we have these elements and guessing ourselves as owners. I think it's even an injury to Article 26. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and foreigners are equal before courts and other state and private bodies with public authority. Therefore, as an institution with public authority, the city of Zagreb has exempt property from paying the monumental rent, and for others it imposes that obligation, although they carry out the same public activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36750	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36751	Dear colleague Varga, you're right. The city of Zagreb is an eclectic example of violations of all norms and sound reasonable solutions and it has been a public secret for years. So, there's no one in the Department for the Protection of Cultural Monuments who can do anything. The papers are being written, spoken publicly, so you remember a few months ago Mrs. Paladin spoke openly about some of the things that were happening in that office. It's the wild west. That is why we who care about respecting the heritage, that public space is valorized in a quality way we are very hoping that there will be a change in the city of Zagreb, and that from the top to the bottom it will completely breathe in a different way, that there will be no room for any good but no madness. I said in my presentation what it looks like when the facades are restored. The job gets the one who asked for a million and 600 thousand kuna, not the one who offered 800 thousand kuna, because they accused him of giving a dumped price. And what are you going to do about it? Obviously, margins on such jobs are much, much more than sound logic says. And then those who got a job for a million and 600 thousand kuna call an expert from those who offered 800 grand to do restoration work because they don't have their own people. And that's the laugh. And that's what happened to you in our neighborhood at the Constitutional Court buildings and who knows where it's not. Well, he recently failed in the Zagreb City Assembly a proposal to rebuild the façades, because the MPs got on their backs and said we don't want it to be done in such a way as a half solution, but we want an energy renewal. So, a complete approach that will last for the next 50 or 100 years, not something that will hold water for 10 or 20 years until I know the smog bites the facade, so we'll do it again. This logic of the constant investment of other people's couples in their own interests should finally cease.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36752	Thank you. The third replica is a respected colleague, Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36753	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Beus Richembergh, you, in part of your debate, have actually opened an important topic for me that refers to the management of cultural heritage in terms of its valorisation, in a way that is primarily preserved and then sold as an economic category. And the goal should actually be to sell cultural goods, cultural heritage that we have, in principle, value for money, and then in that sense we can talk about sustainability of the concept of cultural and cultural heritage management. And certainly in the context of Croatia's preparation for the chairmanship of the Council Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe from May to November 2018, I remind you that one of the priorities for this period is the protection of cultural heritage and is there to expect to intensify numerous activities in culture. And I agree with you first and foremost the possibility of withdrawing funds from the EU funds. And I think, and I think that the more this is one of the reform laws, the more I believe in the positive effects of this law, by stressing that it is necessary to keep an eye on and pay particular attention to the mechanisms of supervision, therefore, and to monitor the effects of this law in practice from the collection of the monumental rent as much as we like, we don't like, share opinions like this or like that. I remind you of two categories of direct and indirect monumental rent that should be distinguished and which should be very well followed and charged on one side and then on the other side of distribution in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36754	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36755	Dear colleague Bedekovic, I agree with your approach, but I would just say it is not necessary to sell anything. It was necessary to make all owners aware of this independently of the state, local self-government or private persons because there are also to this extent to make them aware that the property is binding and that what they are owners, so that they are rightly lords. I didn't mention a Czech example. The Czech Republic has withdrawn huge funds from European funds for not only reconstruction but also the revitalisation of its castles and fortifications. In these castles are not only museums, but also medical institutions, nursing homes, hostels. Why? Because it's known that it's the whole of cultural heritage, the monumental type that's in constant use, just like the house where it lives, lives and works, it lasts and is kept and the one that's abandoned is slowly failing. But our approach to doing everything on pecibokuns, we give a little bit and we don't give anything. You see, for example, the fort, or castle in my neighborhood in Turopolje, it's the famous Lukavec city, it's not a castle, it's never been inhabited, it's owned by a military crew but it's been restored for 17 years. Can you believe it for 17 years? Three times up until now, it's been a wet resuscitation. Who needs that? Where's the money going? Who are we feeding? 15 years. Five reconstruction projects and it's not over yet. Well, they're not able to resuscitate new technologies with capillary moisture because otherwise, it's a castle surrounded by a pool of water. So what really isn't a solution? Well, of course there is. Well, it's not the only castle in the world that's surrounded by water. But we're going on purpose on purpose to keep some cheap weighty solutions than we haven't been five times paid for the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36756	Thank you. The 4th replica is a respected colleague, Glasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36757	Dear colleagues of the Parliament sometimes this debate reminds me of that sex therapist who knows all the love positions and doesn't have a girlfriend and unfortunately that girl is the law with teeth, there's the rule of law, you've got taboo issues totally, we're dealing with side things not with the core of the problem. Does culture have priorities? Of course there is. We're talking about the Czech Republic. What's the problem, the Czech Republic is a homogeneous, national conscious state compared to this country where decommunization has never been made. When I talk about facades, I was born in Zagreb, no one can talk to me about facades in Zagreb and our neighbor who was killed in '45. to take away his land. Thousands of people live in other people's apartments that were killed or driven away and when they arrived in '45. This is where they raised the chickens in the piano. It's never been returned. Why are taboo topics nationalization and confiscation? Who raised Croatian castles in the air there, say, the surroundings of Karlovac, head of Ozna? I think he used to sit in the Parliament. That's not what you're talking about. We're talking about, everything depends on money. So what kind of money are we in the state taxpayers here? I mentioned $34 billion in direct war damage and we pay $6.5 billion in former SFRY and we pay tens of millions of pensions in Serbia. Tens, excuse tens of thousands of pensions. No one knows exactly how much. We're not looking for a difference back. On these issues when you're going to talk about these questions, I'm going back to the intrusion of memory, what about libericide? Burning land books, etc., that legal javadluk, taking away land, 2 million hectares of agricultural land. When will we discuss Croatia's key problem, which is decommunisation on all elements. And how can you solve these cultural problems if 5.6 people are fighting over the same border? I'm looking for an answer to those questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36758	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36759	The fact is, no political elite since the '90s has really meant it when she said it was necessary to return the property that was taken away. If she meant it seriously, she'd spend it. Four hundred thousand people are descendants of families that made up so-called families. Land communities, '47. The decision of the Croatian Parliament took away all their property without the right to compensation. And it's not about the property that's only been bought and acquired in all other ways. Some of these land communities existed for 800 years. Nothing has been returned to anyone. Jastrebarsko, the Noble Municipality of Turopoljska, the Kalnik nobles are all communities, of course not large sizers and owners, but free peasants who had special status and their documents to which the ruler guaranteed their freedom. From the assets of the land communities, just to tell you in the Gorski Kotar, the entire Gorski Kotar and all public roads were built. More than 20 public purpose facilities were built in Turopolje. In all other communities, more or less all the funds received from the joint assets were invested in public infrastructure, and they are treated as some kind of one that requires that they be returned to what is not theirs. And more or less all these assets are either savagely exploited, as is the case with forests, so under the hair hectares and hectares that are never done anywhere in any smart country, because the exploitation of the forest is done on a completely different and more high-quality forest basis. Or he's standing in a schizo, as is the case with many agricultural areas owned by the state, and they've actually been kidnapped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36760	Thank you. The fifth replica of the esteemed colleague Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Richembergh, here I fully agree with what you've debated, discussed, and what you've turned away I'm going to say about that rent and the wider area. And I want to get involved right through that because you've claimed that our cultural heritage is failing, and that's true and that's the Ministry of Culture, that's it. The conservatives have a conservative attitude, i.e. I would add that they are also rigid in amending laws to facilitate and speed up the restoration of cultural heritage. You mentioned the renovation of the old facades. We know that energy efficiency laws are now, and then we know what the problems are when such objects are being restored to meet these regulations. You mentioned the major bureaucratic obstacles that exist. I think it should be the ministry and the conservatives who will be giving guidance that will act preventively, and we at local self-government when we launch a particular initiative, because this cultural heritage has been neglected as Mr Mesic said for 50, 60 years no one has worked. The conservation department of the Ministry of Culture doesn't do anything, and when we launch an initiative to start that reconstruction, then problems arise. We don't have clear conditions of protection against conservative... A variety of documents simply make it difficult for us to launch these procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I, as a member of the IDS, will support the adoption of this law and that as best as possible these procedures go into change and that, in particular, conservation departments take over and assume the responsibility of directing exactly the creation of a quality painting, i.e. the priority of cultural monuments, cultural monuments, cultural heritage so that it can intervene in the reconstruction in good time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36762	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36763	My colleague Demetlika, everything you've said, I'm signing. The fact is that we have examples of positive practice, let's say what the city of Sibenik has done it is to take off the cap in revitalising its fortresses and it continues in that tone and that's good. So, the forts are being brought in for one smart purpose, but you also have a very powerful conservative restoration lobby that will put you on every idea of putting you into the function of an old one, so a monumental object that's going down and not since yesterday, but let's say a hundred years, it's going to put a new door on you because it's going to set so-called. High conditions of protection prevent you from doing anything. And it's actually in a natural state, so in nature these objects are totally falling apart. Take a look at the public in particular at these cultural institutions that should worry about it, the famous whores have been torn down. For example, Kurija Josipovic in Kurilovac, the Jelačić family's cuisine also in Kurilovac, the Modić-Bedekovic Curija in Donjo Lomnica. It's been rebuilding for 15 years. Be careful, do you know how long the building of the Croatian National Theatre was built with that technology and with those materials in a year it includes a complete interior arrangement. So, all the squats, all the paintings, complete equipment, inventory, all in a year. And today we've been rebuilding the Lukavec castle for 17 years. Well, we can be ashamed!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36764	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36765	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Beus, you are a representative of the German national minority here in the Croatian Parliament Oh, no? [[Intruder Beus: I didn't.]] You have a German origin by name I see. And on some point, I am connected to the Germans, at least I live in a former German village, one hundred percent, all of which were Germans. There are now 80% of them from Croatia's Zagorje immigrants. What I'm saying is that I remember the cultural heritage of the German people of a very valuable people who were still in the Chiles descending on the Sava and squaring the oaks of the forest by populating the adventures of Slavonia by spreading their culture, their way of life. They built buildings, they built churches, they died in that same Slavonia, they ended up in the cemetery. Often their monuments were works of art that I must mention were destroyed during communism. So they were removed and transported in unknown directions. Never have their graves been recorded except for a few of the monuments that we are carefully guarding now. We had the same thing, next to me there was a mill, 50 m times 50 on three floors that was operational until the time of the liberators who came, kidnapped it from the hateful occupier as they called them and devastated them and destroyed the entire mill. We also had the church of St. Vendelina, still standing thanks to the Italian Caritas who restored her, which was destroyed 2.5.92. A year. So as a representative in some part of the German national minority, I urge you to use these funds to at least write something about this German people who lived in Slavonia, to remain at least a written clue if everything they've built is what they've destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36766	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36767	I am not a representative of the German minority here, I am a representative of the German minority in Zagreb County and the president of Germany and another 12 national minorities in this Croatian Parliament is a colleague of Kajtazi. Namely, our smaller ones vote in that constituency. What you said, that's true, so one great addition of the German minority through history in all if you want the cultural habitat of the Croatian people is immeasurable. The heritage of the Germans and their descendants is visible at every turn. And here in the Upper city where there lived a very respectable community of German origin, in Zagreb's Lower Town also, throughout Slavonia, in Varazdin, Samobor. As many as I can list you now, I have written a biographical lexicon which I have included 9 hundred biographies of famous Germans, Austrians and Croatians of German origin who have left a mark in Croatian culture. This makes the Croatian people proud of all that they have left behind. We cannot, of course, be proud of the fate they experienced or were expelled or died in camps, or caught their first chance to go elsewhere. And somewhere else, their great-grandmother mostly welcomed them as second-class people. Many of those who left in '44, '45, '46. Until the end of the '50s, they had neither citizenship nor papers, they lived in refugee camps. Today their children will not tell them where their fathers are from, they are ashamed in some way that their fathers are refugees from Panonia, from the Danube, do not want to go through the same fate as their fathers. But the heritage is there and let's be aware, proud of it because it is part of the total Croatian cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36768	Thank you. Here, we're done with the replicas. We are moving on to the next Club of Representatives of MOST Independent Lists and distinguished colleague Ljubica Ambrusec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36769	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Honored Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. This proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Culture and Cultural Goods is very much regulated. Namely, cultural goods are regulated, protection of cultural goods, obligations and rights of cultural goods owners, concessions and concessions on cultural goods, measures to protect and preserve cultural goods, the provision of jobs on the protection and preservation of cultural goods, the execution of administrative inspection tasks, the work and the part-line of the Croatian Council for Cultural goods, the financing of protection and preservation of cultural goods, as well as other issues related to the protection and preservation of cultural goods. Therefore, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, I express my support for this bill. This law establishes protection for cultural goods that will be implemented through preventive protection of goods that are known to have the properties of cultural goods. What protection has a limited duration of time or the determination of the properties of cultural goods that have a lasting character. Article 10 The Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods is prescribed that the time limit on which preventive protection for certain goods can be set cannot be longer than three years except for archaeological and underwater archaeological findings in cases that cannot be longer than 6 years to the day of the solution which you believe has personally been extremely joyous because it has been truly inconceivable so far. And why is that? I can prove, for example, what in my community there is so-called. The bishop’s court, or castle, is a beautiful cultural building dating back to the 15th century and built walled from 1821, which was a primary school by 2009. But now, I would say now or unfortunately or truly fortunately, a new school has been built and this building, this beautiful building is truly left to a time line. I suppose that's true in many other cities and municipalities throughout the Republic of Croatia. Because we know that as of 2012, there's a lot of quiet, I'd say Zagorje curium and so do castles at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia. And we know for ourselves that since then a very, very small number has been restored and most of it has actually been left to the verse of time. So, I am pleased that the preventive protection period will be used to collect data, explore documentation and identify properties after good, some good in terms of meeting the criteria for the duration of protection as cultural goods. In practice, preventive protection is extended twice, which is a certain restriction in the use of things by owners who oppose such treatment by provoking a solution to preventive protection against secondary authorities and administrative courts. For that reason, it is necessary to limit the possibility of extending preventive protection after the expiry of the law of the prescribed period and its duration. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods shall be governed by the conduct of the competent body of the conservatory department of the Ministry of Culture or the City of Zagreb for the protection of monuments of culture and nature in the event that the owner of cultural goods does not act in accordance with the law or does not act with due attention and threatens to destroy or damage cultural goods. Therefore, I am also particularly pleased with this article because our President, Mrs Grabar Kitarovic, said in the media that cultural goods owners must indeed behave in the spirit of the true master, not in machehish, as I have said in most cases. Therefore, this law proposes that the competent authority should the legal assumptions of the mayor of Zagreb, the mayor or the municipal mayors in whose territory is the culturally good appointment of a culturally good temporary guardian. In such a case, the temporary custodian is obliged to take measures to protect and preserve the cultural goods ordered by the competent authority. In view of the above, it is necessary to specify the existing legal provision relating to the insurance of the costs of custody paid from the territory of the city of Zagreb, the city budget or municipal budget in such a way as to provide for the establishment of legal publishing law for the benefit of the city of Zagreb, the city or some municipalities that have paid attention to the costs of custody. In the context of the implementation of the national programme for the protection and preservation of cultural goods as part of the public needs programme in the Republic of Croatia's culture, funds are provided from the state budget for the implementation of measures to protect and preserve cultural goods, which are based on an annual public call to the owners of cultural goods for protection and restoration projects, as you know so far, and in most cases have been the Republic of Croatia itself. The consequences of the legislation will limit the possibility of extending the preventive protection of goods that are known to have the properties of cultural goods, more favourable conditions for the use of funds from the state budget, the budget of the county, the city of Zagreb, towns and municipalities. Mandatory acquisition of professional professions for the protection and preservation of cultural goods will be determined only for employees of public institutions for the protection and preservation of cultural goods which are founders of the Republic of Croatia, the County, the City of Zagreb, municipalities and cities while other natural and legal persons will be able to carry out these tasks on the basis of the permission of the Ministry of Culture if they meet the prescribed professional and technical conditions. It will reduce the amount of monumental rent paid monthly per square metre of useful area of business space located in the immovable cultural good or in the area of cultural and historical integrity. The payment of indirect monumental rent and the appropriate reduction of a good investor's payment regime will continue. There I must certainly commend the employees of the Ministry of Culture from the conservatory and restoration work that they have done in our mentioned bishop's court impeccably in this regard. It's really all praise. Also, revenue from the 2017 monumental rent was planned in the budget of the Ministry of Culture section 055 for activities A565010 to protect protection works on fixed cultural monuments amounting to 40 million kuna as well as for 2018 and 2019, which I hope the Minister will probably be enough for everyone. The proposal for the adoption of an emergency law in view of the urgency of the implementation of the key reform measures under the National Reform Programme should be submitted in hastily by the proposed law in order to ensure a reduction in the level of direct monumental rent and the continuation of the payment of indirect monumental rent in the reduced number of payers and the monumental rent. The owners of cultural goods will also be provided with a more favourable condition for the use of funds from the state budget, the budget of the county, the city of Zagreb, cities and municipalities in order to protect cultural goods that would finally be the purpose of this law, and I hope, too, as the head of our municipality, that we will finally regulate our castle for useful purposes, and that, of course, throughout the Republic of Croatia, the majority of the mayors and mayors of the same opinion regarding the preservation of our cultural heritage, which would indeed preserve their identity by this law, and therefore once again express my support for the law on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36770	Thank you, too. We have one replica. It's a respected colleague, Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36771	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Ambrusec, I am glad that you have just given the deadline for preventive protection is very important. He's very important for a number of reasons. I'm going to tell you there are objects that are under conservative protection, and they're threatening dangers both in traffic and in traffic and children, pedestrians who are at some traffic crossings. And it's really very important that this in some way prevents preventive protection from emergency perhaps even in the variant that the danger to traffic and the functioning of traffic or the danger to pedestrians may be... to further shorten to intervene in the preventive protection of such facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, I'll tell you only this, so even so far and based on the law so far, some facilities could be rescheduled, the city of County, the state if they're private property. And if they're under conservative protection, that it could have been in a way to get consent from the ministry, to renovate, or rebuild the facility, protect the facility and, of course, ask the owner to recover the funds. As a rule, he deafens himself on the return of funds and you have the right to register for the share you invested in renovating or rebuilding the facility. But unfortunately, the law is always solid, but unfortunately, it's not like that. And another example, in the law, and so far the law is an archaeologically kind of exhibit found at a certain locality of the law says that after restoration it must be exposed to the nearest area of its findings. Unfortunately, that's what the law says, unfortunately, many exhibits generally end up archaeologically somewhere in the basements of archaeological museums, conservatory institutions, or who knows where, are neither exposed for tourist purposes nor in the function of local exactly as tourist purposes but are ultimately neither educationally suitable for students, students and students. And that's what the law says, but unfortunately there's no implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36772	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36773	Yes, colleague, I agree definitely with your findings. The only thing I have to mention in my case, and I also really once again commend the restoration part and the conservatory part of the Ministry of Culture that actually did one at our castle, I'd say hard work and do it. However, I agree, too, legal measures are actually what they are. But somehow, this whole hodogram, if you want to do something good on buildings like this, because like I said for a pay phone, these buildings simply fail if they are not in a function. However, by law, you simply cannot help yourself in some situations because, let's say our case was misdirected for two years, it stood in DUDI, we didn't even point it towards the Ministry of Culture because we were wrongly directed in the wrong place and you understand the same basis of the law. So it was said you must, it was real estate, no matter what she was in cultural historical good but she had to be forwarded there. And so we waited, waited and waited, but on the basis of the change of power, we finally came to the conclusion that our case was transferred to the Ministry of Culture by Mr. Boban. So hopefully here's how we're going to get to a faster way now whether concessions or ownership, no matter what, but just to get into it, I'd say maybe if there's some kind of programme from the Ministry or maybe cross-border cooperation, we already have two offers to do the whole story because it needs to be brought to the cause, not just in our community, but in our municipalities and cities throughout the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36774	Thank you. This is what ended the club debate. We have an individual debate that's a distinguished colleague of Nenad Stazic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36775	Thank you, Vice President. I don't have any problem with this bill of yours, I personally support it, I think it's necessary, it's useful. About the monumental rent, Mesic spoke very nicely in his presentation, there is nothing to add or subtract. In Croatia, there is a need to collect monumental rents, and I really don't understand it as a parafiscal imposition and that those who have to pay it that way, maybe it's all our fault because we didn't explain it enough. Why and why is this monumental rent and what is its purpose and its reasons? Perhaps fellow Richembergh was talking about it in some areas is that coverage a little too wide. So they've been declared areas, protected areas that don't deserve to be. And that's what people know that they're doing there, and that's why they feel it as a parafiscal imposition, even as an unfair parafiscal imposition. Because they know they're not in the protected area and they're bound to pay for it. The second problem I see is the problem of the city of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb has its own culture office and it is not now under the control of the ministry, which I do not think is a good solution in principle. We heard hope for a different result of the elections in the city of Zagreb, by changing the mayor. We shouldn't be looking at the problem like that, no matter who the mayor is, it can be this one, it can be someone else, it doesn't matter. That question needs to be resolved systematically. Why? Because cultural heritage does not belong to the local self-government unit it is a treasure of the entire Croatian people. And therefore, no matter where it is and must be equally protected in rich environments and poor environments. It should also be taken care of by the central government, which means the ministry. And I suggest that when you pass the whole law that you're announcing, you consider solving this problem, that we take it away from this unit of local self-government in some way and put it under the control of the ministry. The memorial rent was introduced primarily to restore the destroyed monuments in the Homeland War. And it was rightly done, a lot was destroyed, a lot we were able to rebuild, a lot was stolen or taken away. And Minister Vujic managed to return a part of it in his term, in relatively good condition. This must be the permanent task of all ministers, and even your respected minister, we must work to get this stolen treasure back as much as possible, as much as possible. It won't be possible anything because a lot of it's been destroyed. But my God, what we can get back will be fine. However, we and the monuments that have come to call them the collateral war damage of cultural monuments that we destroyed ourselves in the Homeland War, and they were extremely valuable. I mean, first of all, I'll only mention one. I'm not talking about 3,000 broken monuments to NOB. Not all of them were top-notch art plastics. Some are, some are. But I'm going to talk about two monuments of the top Croatian sculptor Vojin Bakic. It's a sculpture of world proportions. One is on Peter's mountain, and the other is in Kamenska near Požega. In order not to remain a disgrace to all of us, I can understand that in wartime acts such as this, I would dare say a crime to destroy such monuments. I can understand the frustrations of combatants, of those who pass there. I can understand that, it happens in all wars. But what's unforgivable is not to make it right. And it is not corrected because Vojin Bakic was a Cypriot of Serbian ethnicity, so it is not renewed. So they say a monument on Peter's mountain, so it's too expensive, who's going to rebuild it, it's a few budgets from the Ministry of Culture. Let's make a recovery plan. Well, it doesn't have to be restored in a year or two. Let's report it to the European funds. I'm convinced that for one of the Grandmothers, Europe will give money if we don't have it. But the monument in Kamenska is not so monumental, it is not so large, and one of the most beautiful monuments of the 20th century. So here's the minister I am already talking about the monumental rent I invite you to use this monumental rent and rebuild such monuments because this will prove to be a cultural people who can correct their own mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36776	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36777	Dear colleagues, we have again heard an exhibition here in the Croatian Parliament where we again take care of the details, and we avoid the core of the problem and I will repeat it again when the seized property will return, cultural goods to the Croats they were taken from after '45. A year. The amount of these apartments that were taken were also monuments of Croatian heritage regarding Partisan monuments. They belong in the museum because there was a monument wherever a partisan got wet there. And for Croatian cemetery bones don't lie, for hundreds of killed nothing, and now I'm back too, it's the same part of our culture because it's memory. And that, this commission that's been put together recently to face the past, it's the same part of our cultural heritage, it hasn't even met yet. What's the inducement at the Homeland War Museum? We don't have it. Is that a priority in Croatian culture? These are also an inseparable part of the culture. Those branches of science, but they didn't say a sign. I'm going back to three main points again. Again, it is the first compensation to Croats who have been taken away from property, who have been killed to enter their apartments, factories, destroyed castles, etc. The second item is the return of the archive from Belgrade, the state archives. And the third point is the punishment of the perpetrators who did the liberacy, the punishment, who burned Croatian heritage while... It's also a crime against culture, and it's burning books. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've already heard not only in this war, but in the last war where thousands were burned, thousands of documents to take away people's property. It was part of that criminal plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36778	Thank you. Replication response, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36779	Since this replica has absolutely nothing to do with my exposure, I don't think it deserves an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36780	Second replica, fellow Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36781	Dear fellow Stazic, I am pleased that here you support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. I'm glad we can agree in principle on the usefulness of the cultural heritage memorial. I'd just say since I've been working at the Ministry of Culture since '96. By 2011 I had had the opportunity to follow the work of the Cultural Goods Council in a number of convocations but never, but I never heard from any of my colleagues nor noticed, nor felt that any monument was being restored because it was behind it by someone who was by nationality Italian, Croat, Jew or other of those monumental heritage. In 2011 alone, it was the last one I remember well, which we had protective interventions on 36 cultural goods of the Serbian province, 36 only in 2011. There were renovations and monuments you mentioned. Let's say a good example for you is Bjelovarac in the Bjelovar square that was restored. As far as Peter's up there without any demagogy, I've been on committees several times for that monument, he's really a huge financial cookie. It may be possible to obtain funds from some EU funds, but you need documentation to do so. I've worked with several groups of experts, we've never been able to get the blueprints and the exact documentation of that monument. She's all over us, I don't know if she exists anywhere. And besides, there's an extremely human monument, it's a hospital that I think he deserves much more activity in... [[/Intruder Jandroković: Thank you. You can finish the sentence.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36782	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36783	Comrade Mesic, first of all, I highly appreciate your work as a minister of culture. I think you were one of the better culture ministers. I can trust you to believe that in these cultural councils it is not resonated in the way I suggest. But I have an argument against it. So don't tell me that the monument of Nikola Tesla in Gospić hasn't been returned yet and it's been poured out, in... it's not returned because it's ugly, what made it an unknown author or because Tesla invented electricity so those who would have had to return that monument back, and these are sorry, but your HDZs in Gospić, I have to tell you, they don't return it for the reason he invented electricity and they find it hard to pay for electricity. They're not returning it because Nikola Tesla was a Serb, so understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36784	Thank you. I don't want this debate to turn into a blood cell count right now because I don't think it makes any sense that it was really high. So here's your right to say it, but I also agree with my colleague Mesic that there really isn't much to do with it. To the end...... Well, I wouldn't want to replicate it, but Tesla's got a lot of [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Tesla has its monument in Zagreb. [[Intruder Stazic: You have just replicated.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36785	Breaking, breaking the Rules of Procedure, you just replicated me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36786	Coli Stazic, we still have to take care of the level of debate and pretend the debate on the protection of the monument in the debate whether a monument is restored or not because it is a Serb or not I do not think it is correct. That's why I called, and I don't want to pollemize. Here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36787	Article 33 which speaks of the obligations and rights of the President of the Parliament and of the Chairman. So you have to run a session in a way that allows MPs to make their views known. You don't have to agree with those views. But while you're running the session, you can't replicate. You can ask another vice president, here's your colleague Opačić, you could have asked her to come out there, come to her place, and replicate me to my will. But then I can answer your line. What you've done is incorrect and you're showing in fact that you're not worthy to sit on that chair you're sitting on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36788	Comrade Stazic, you see that I am correct because I have allowed you to speak through this institution of violation of the Rules of Procedure and your dignity or mine will be decided by someone else and you will certainly not speak of my dignity. We are now going to the final debate and this is the debate of the Minister of Culture Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank all MPs and MPs for their presentations, for your support, for the adoption of these amendments and for the addition of the law and for allowing me to take a very short look at some of the topics mentioned in the debate and to clarify just a few of the issues that seem to have remained open to me. First of all, a difficult situation has been mentioned on several occasions in relation to cultural heritage, part of which is the result of the victims in the Homeland War but certainly one of the decades of concern, not to worry about cultural heritage and especially the sacral heritage, and especially about those cultural goods that have been taken away from their owners. So given these comparisons that were with other countries, I don't think we can quite compare ourselves, our situation is much more difficult, much more complex and much more demanding. One of the reasons why I was in the Ministry of Culture in the past term and brought a strategy for the preservation and economic use of cultural heritage precisely in order to systematically approach this issue. The second question that has been raised and I must mention it here is the question of the use of European funds. Otherwise, I haven't talked too much about what we found in the ministry in my previous appearances as a minister. However, I must say that only the ministry, by my personal conviction, has rather unseriously approached programming compared to this financial perspective. Only one strategic project has been prepared in the area of cultural heritage. Instead, it was important investment projects involving the restoration of cultural heritage in various public private partnerships. Instead of preparing documentation for European funds, which we have now started and very soon, we will finance a large project as well. And what is the biggest problem that very small funds are programmed through the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion I will only say when the tender is scheduled to take place, to be opened by 2020 is closed for a month and a half because the quota of projects has already been met. And that's something that we have to deal with urgently, but it's something that shows to all of us here that also the owners of cultural goods and those who are private owners and local self-government units are aware that the heritage needs to be invested, that they know how to do it, that they have prepared projects and that we simply have to create conditions. This was about energy efficiency, we are aware of the problem that according to the current criteria you have to show to withdraw energy efficiency funds that you will provide at least 40% of the savings, which in the case of cultural goods is impossible. And that's why we need to negotiate actually to set the criteria differently. Now the most concrete thing was about the monumental rent, I am glad that it is recognized here in this House what a multiplier effect on the economy has on the economy and we will certainly do everything to ensure that this system is well preserved, positioned and kept as a model that allows in the first place local self-government and then also the Ministry of Culture not only direct renewal but exactly what we lacked to prepare the documentation for funding from other sources. As regards issues related to the collection of monumental rent and possible supervision, or not to control it, there are very precise data, and it should also be pointed out that both direct and indirect rent is collected by the Tax Administration. So it's very easy to collect very specific data and we have consulted them all in preparation for these changes and additions. In this regard, the decision to verify is, in fact, what was passed by the 2012 law, so it was in amendments and amendments or regulations from year to year, delayed, which is that the maximum amount per metre is allocated to four kunas because at this point cities do not even collect anywhere in that amount of more than 4 kuna. In the announcement of full adoption of the new law, we plan to hold talks with local self-government units and with the Chamber of Commerce and Association of the Chamber of Commerce. What's important is this consensus that we feel here in this House about the importance of rent, that we actually have this consensus with these key stakeholders on the one hand, those who represent businessmen and craftsmen, and on the other hand, the units of local self-government that have to understand and already understand the actual great potentials of this system. It is a very short question of the return of art because it has also been discussed, although this law does not resolve it. A month ago, we held a committee meeting, established dynamics, and this issue will be resolved very soon. It would not be good for this false interpretation of liberalisation in terms of licensing to be misunderstood. It is not that anyone will be reduced to criteria, but only that those operating outside public institutions do not have to go through the same procedure as those operating in public institutions. In other words, they do not have to pass an expert examination involving the knowledge of the Constitution and the relevant laws. But all the things in which these craftsmen and companies work on cultural goods will surely be closely monitored and only upgraded, and certainly not reduced. In the end, I would just say that we have taken into account all the other, broader comments concerning and covering cultural and historical issues and the restoration of individual monuments and we will consider them when we make the whole law. We also received two amendments from the Legislative Committee. It concerns two technical amendments to Article 8 and Article 15. I don't need to read them. The government agrees and accepts these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36790	I thank the minister. We have one replica, dear colleague Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36791	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister, here we have already expressed ourselves on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists on the support of this legislative proposal, i.e. the amendment and addition of this law that protects the monumental rent as an extremely important instrument in the restoration and preservation of the monumental heritage. What I'm interested in, of course, is that all the MPs from their positions have observed the monumental heritage and consensus is actually about how it needs to be restored. However, we in Dubrovnik have a huge problem of depopulation and commercialisation of every inch of public space, and in this sense it began with the process of drawing up plans to manage the historic core in the city of Dubrovnik. And I am personally interested in what will be further steps of the Ministry of Culture, because I believe that this is an extremely important process, an extremely important document involving in the decision-making process all those who should be, and this is also the local population and civil society associations and professions. What are the possibilities for management plans to be implemented into national legislation, that they be binding, that their implementation is binding because I think it is one of the most important instruments and preservation of historical cores, but also life in them so that our cities do not pretend, our historic cities turn into scenes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36792	A reply to the replica of the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36793	I'll answer you. So, as far as the management plans are concerned, it was the Ministry of Culture who, years after the amended UNESCO Convention, instructed cities to start the process. Some cities began so they failed to come up with plans, some long resisted the idea. What we need to understand no matter how we regulate our relationship to management plans in the future and whether we include them in the law or not, by adopting amendments to the Convention itself, and according to our Constitution, all obligations of the Convention have become an integral part of our legislation. Therefore, the fact that the management plan is not specifically stated in our law does not mean that any whole or individual monument protected under UNESCO does not have that obligation. We will, as we have so far, monitor this process, provide all professional and other assistance and encourage, of course, cities to adopt such plans in a participatory process, especially for monumental units such as Dubrovnik or Split, which experience a serious devastion of this kind of management. Management plans could be turning points and we hope that there will be awareness and that it will go in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36794	Thank you very much. And this closes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36795	The next item is the final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 117. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, a government representative accepted the proposed amendments and they became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that it is unanimous with 109 votes for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36796	Now we move to the next item of the agenda. This is - Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 Carrier: Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency Reporter is the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency based on Article 33. Law on regulation and energy activities. Due to the extensiveness of the report, the report is on the Assembly website, and one copy in writing has been delivered to representatives' clubs. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the report at the session. I would now ask the applicant, Mr Tomislav Jurekovic, of the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency to give an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36797	... Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] I thank you for this opportunity and I am pleased to be able to present to you a brief report on the work and financial parameters of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, unfortunately in 2015, the year which is already quite behind us but the rhythm in which reporting comes in order, most often and is so, so that in two months we will submit a report for 2016 in the belief that it may be something earlier on your benches. However, I will try through my 2015 presentation to slowly connect with at least preliminary results in 2016 to gain some continuity as well as some characteristics of Croatian energy in the part where we, as an independent regulatory institution, monitor to some extent and direct. So the structurally viewed document that you have in front of you is set in the frameworks as prescribed by all European regulators, we have since 2013 when Croatia joined the EU became part of European energy regulators, and thus our report has received a certain structure, a specific framework. On the other hand, since we haven't had any statistical checks on Croatian energy in recent years, then we've been trying to fill a hole in that part that may not be Uncle Senso regulatory but which should give us the opportunity to monitor what happens in the continuity of Croatian energy. So my idea is to try briefly and through a few sentences to remind myself of the role and task of the energy regulator, to try to give a brief overview of the situation by energy activities, with an emphasis of course on the part that is the topic for regulators. I will then try to place these activities in a European context and, in time, become an increasingly important point in the interest of customer protection regulators, briefly comment on the financial frameworks, i.e. the financial results of the business plan, and try to give some indication of the future of regulation in Croatia and yet I say, in part, caused by national strategic interests, but also in the EU, which is the second part of the framework, so to say our obligations and the other part of our jobs that are sometimes less visible but which is equally binding. So I'm going to try to visit briefly on what actually the regulatory body in energy is and perhaps what it isn't. The fact is that even after some discussions, discussions and discussions that have not only been under way over the past months but also occurred in the previous year to two, this is obviously one of the points on which we have not been overly successful in our work, which is to try to explain which tasks, which are missions, which are the place of regulation within the entire energy scene in one EU Member State to make it clear and where our limits are and where we can improve. So the regulator is defined by law as an independent body, a non-profit organisation with public powers. Why independent? It's a very common topic and independent regulators, I think that this High House has had a chance over the past few months with several similar independent regulators to have so sometimes rather intense discussions. Because the energy system has been as it has been set since the beginning of Croatia's energy reform, whose indications started in the late 1990s and 2001s, received the first legal framework, swung somewhere in mid-2000, but by entering the EU in 2013 they received definitive frameworks, hence full compatibility with European energy. European energy is an environment within which the entire concept is based on the market mechanism as a central mechanism that determines the parameters of the event especially in traditional energy components. Why... regulators? Regulators as an organism that stands equidistantly in relation to decision-makers, in relation to industry interests and customer interests. If there is a market as a major mechanism that will determine prices there is one part of the energy that you cannot leave to the market, these are natural monopolies, they are networks, they are wires, what must always be under special controls, which must be methodologically defined and what regulators bring. The second part of the story is precisely this market within which regulators monitor, control, of course in a situation such as ours implement domestic and European regulations and in time try to be some kind of control, not a judge but control and router, which is what energy really needs in those parts that are not and priors prescribed. So that's two halves within which energy moves. And independence is needed as a guarantee to each of these three participants in the triangle in the middle of which is the regulator, guaranteeing stability of a particular course, guaranteeing the verification of certain data entering and ultimately resulting in some tariffs and in one part and prices. And for this reason, it is necessary to isolate the regulator from possible, above all, the lobbying interests of industry from being able to make decisions in political structures that change dramatically in course over time. Likewise, customers force their interests because the regulator is in a situation that is always in the middle and always equally guilty. Customers are always too expensive. Dealers and industry are always too cheap, and decision makers have their own ideas, have their own policies. The problem of energy is so specific that energy is by its nature a long-term activity. It does not allow decisions to be made, and it must not be made in the first place. It acts with results seen at a distance of several years, which is why energy errors are those who are very seriously manifested and pay very expensively at social level. On the other hand, political interests are often shorter, they have political programmes with dimensions of three to four years. It is often also a source of conflict, which is why they are in the concept itself, and therefore the idea of the existence of independent regulators in energy sets up a structure that is in some way isolated from partial interests to try to be as neutral as possible. The regulator is therefore independent of these three components that I have listed for you, but is independent of performing its primary function. So in order to carry out what he needs to remain neutral to everyone. If we know what kind of regulator it should be and I don't want to be so much more likely to say that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency has fully met that requirement in all its components. But I can responsibly argue that it is in a trend that will definitely end one day or at least convert to a situation where all three parties will be able to have equal confidence. So far, all three sides are equally angry. Let's hope that one day it'll be something different. A brief overview of the situation in Croatia's energy markets. This is actually a taste of the document that, where it has you in front of it and which is on the web pages of the Assembly that is quite extensive, but which is always passed through two components through regulated parts that most often concern infrastructure and unregulated parts that most often concern those market components that have the character of purchase. This is to know that in a classic energy supply chain you have at the start of production, in the middle of its transmission through transport and distribution and finally re-trade in the form of supplies to final customers. The beginning and end of this story are in principle exposed to the market. The European concept as we fully assume and implement our laws leads exactly to deregulation, according to the systematic release of brakes so that the market as a neutral mechanism can give its optimal result between supply and demand. Therefore, production, therefore, is not regulated in principle except in those components in which they still have a protective function. The environment, transport, distribution of wires and pipes are regulated and remain permanently regulated. I will try to start with electricity because it is, in any case, the part of the energy sector which, even in future EU and Croatia's plans, is being driven towards an ever-increasing share of clean energy is getting even more relevant. The electrical energy is kind of the base of this whole story. I will try to keep each of these comments as short as possible and not enter their numbers, but I will try to comment on partial markets, wholesale relations and retail and infrastructure development through which we come to security of supply. Basically, each energy user is interested in two basic facts about whether energy exists, which means whether there are technical assumptions that it is safely and reliably acquired and what its price is. But that's what it revolves around on the user side. We who work professionally in energy are trying to look at something wider. Electricity has been in Croatia for several years, I say angro, not entering sources at a stable level, it has a stable energy balance moving on about 17 and a half, 17.6 terrawatt hours. There's no major change in that. This is, therefore, spending in Croatia, of which some two billion go to losses, and the rest is handed over to customers. The installed power, hence Croatia's potential for electricity production and has been stable for several years at some four-and-a-half terrawatt hours, the terrawatt pardoned installed power. The increase is relatively small, Croatia's capacities are mostly complemented and complemented by the component of renewable sources, mainly in the component of stimulated renewable sources. This means that what we see in 2015 and 2016 is not different as the growth is mostly the share of renewable sources and this dominant wind. However, we remain saying at an installation of about 4.6 terrawatts at Croatia level. It may be important to mention that the infrastructure in Croatia as far as electricity is concerned in the European frameworks is very well developed, and I am particularly talking about a transmission network whose cross-border capacities may, in their overall strength in the first ten in Croatia, in Europe, be sorry that it implies that Croatia is very well secured by any incident in the domestic system. Croatia produces and covers electricity 60 per cent, the rest varies. It can climb up to 50, and it can drop to 30 percent since it's imports. Of course, the strategic interests of each country that one of the main potentials has in electricity production, however, the ratio of imports and domestic production are not as persecutive terms as they were ten years ago in the related European market imports is actually the possibility that traders who are the main players in the market buy energy where it is cheaper. Another perhaps comment on the very structure of electricity. In Croatia, one good part of production is based on hydroenergy. Since hydroenergy is itself and the share of hydropower plants depends on hydrological opportunities, production can vary from year to year, and this 10% plus or minutes. In particular, in 2016, the situation is in terms of its own production by 5 to 10% better than it was in 2015, which was slightly more dry. What's it gonna be like in 2017? We'll see. What is still important for electricity is to mention that it is not only the dynamics of the construction of the defrastructure that we are trying to keep in reasonable measures through the approval of the plans. Otherwise, the approval of plans and is one of the most important tasks of regulators, within which not only important tasks could be said but one of the few active tools that can affect the ambitions of infrastructure companies in building their future network, which, of course, burdens ultimately and its price. That's why these plans often last, so sometimes they're brought with a break and in one such example, specifically for 2014 even electroinfrastructors and they didn't get approval on their clans. But it's mostly a power situation. So from the level of users and the supply of electricity in Croatia is a safe source, its problems and its risks are of an internal nature especially in the part where they relate to stimulated production from renewable sources. But that may be a subject that I will briefly comment on after this. The next area is gas, and not accidentally, electricity and natural gas together make up two components of what is called the EU's single internal market. It is these two energies that are focused on most of the laws, most of the regulations and principles implementing European energy. And I repeat, Croatia's energy strategy is fully accepted, except for all EU documents that are binding and these regulations are a direct part of Croatian legislation that is as binding on Croatian citizens as any law adopted in this house. So the gas is a second point and it can also be said that its condition is relatively stable. In both electricity and gas in 2015, an increase was observed after several years of decline in consumption. The intensity itself, the amount of consumption itself is not an indicator of neither health nor the problem of an energy sector. However, after the end of the economic recession and through the consumption of electricity and gas, there is a certain increase, these increases were 4 to 5% in 2015 compared to the year before and continued as trends in 2016. So there's no excessive reason to say aprior concerns here either. The gas system in Croatia is quite well covered, regardless of the main part of the distribution component located in the western and northern parts. However, transport, the main highway infrastructure has also been expanded towards Dalmatia. It is a device of opportunity, on the other hand, and a certain burden because investment in the large gas pipeline towards Dalmatia is something that today makes the transport price in Croatia quite high and therefore the ministry, and in our own domain we are also making efforts to develop consumption in parts in which it is not yet current and, on the other hand, rationalising future plans. But that's what I'm saying is something is still up to the ministry, to the decision-makers and to those who define the Republic of Croatia's strategy. Energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia is as far as we know in the design, as is the low-carbon strategy. It was passed in 2009. Unfortunately, it has never experienced its implementing acts, so many of us who work in energy have been in an area that has not had solid ground under our feet for the implementation strategy as such has been assumed and not adopted. I'm sure it won't be fate for the future. But this future one will show some shifts compared to 2009 by failing to leave the EU framework of course, but with increasing insistence on low-carbon components, energy efficiency and clean energy. To finish the story of gas, except for good infrastructure, except for a good connection today and the problem of security of supply in the Republic of Croatia is nowhere near as it was 10 years ago. Today Croatia has several sources, several directions. Of course, the Danes who have them most, and the Germans say that there is never enough natural gas supply routes, so Croatia is also working to open new ones. But this is already the topic to be reported for the year today, given that it refers to 2016 and especially 2017, where there is indeed a chance now to realise large, new infrastructure projects at the position of new gas entry into the Republic of Croatia. So natural gas and electricity are generally well-positioned infrastructure, quite solidly modified regulations, equipped with regulations, each of these activities and each of these sectors has its specificities. Of course, in electricity it is dominated by HEP, which also holds depending on whether you are looking at a wholesale or retail market 80 to 85% of the market. In gas on the other hand, we have a different situation, we have a diverged market with a level of downstream, i.e. distribution and supply at a distribution level that has 35 or 50 houses, which is probably too expensive and thus too expensive. The assumption is that the market, which has been increasing in recent years, will lead to correction and such relations, is likely to lose market shares on the basis of new players, while in gas, whether by administrative action whether regulations or by the very fact that the market is becoming more and more acute is to reduce the number of market participants. But these are development processes that will last and, of course, the regulator will participate in its components. Electricity prices and gas prices in European proportions are somewhere in the middle range. For example, the difference between consumers in households and consumers in the classical industry and entrepreneurship is as much as in gas prices for households have been regulated even at the level of the law for several years, not at the level of regulators, so that the average prices for households in Croatia were around 25% to 30% below the European average in 2015. On the other hand, the price of industry was slightly above the European average due to the still under-shaking of the competition. However, it is very difficult to say that Croatian prices are in electricity and gas, and now primarily refers to the year 2015 to any anomalies within European averages. It's where it can be reasonably expected. One market with more and more players slowly starts to show the results of the match, so there is one constant pressure on the price. Let us remind ourselves that, in electricity from the end of 2015, household prices have been fully deregulated, which means that the universal service provider, which is one in Croatia, namely HEP, or HEP's company, is the one that actually has the possibility to set the final price itself. The price, however, also had one character and was slightly more expensive than the market components. All together have created pressure on the prices that are being maintained to this day, so the trend of the drop in price is evident. The happy coincidence is that over the last two, three years and in the European electricity and gas market prices have been steadily falling. One part of this benefit was bought by customers in Croatia, so that if you look at the results of 2015 and one part of 2016 you will notice a continuous drop in gas prices for households, you will notice a certain trend but through the competition falls for non-communities as well. A similar situation is in electricity. The competition in terms of the fight against suppliers in electricity started about two years earlier or three years earlier than in gas, started in 2014 and today we can say that about 15 to 20, about 15 percent of households in Croatia took advantage of the right to change their supplier and is no longer a dominant player. It first appeared in the gas last summer. For now, there are relatively few alternative offers offered in households, but that's where it started. Why does it matter? It is important because the energy market needs to be regarded not as a low-price guaranteeer, but as a guaranteeer of the rights of each buyer to choose between alternative offers. That's the point. There will be better years and there will be worse years, but the market is the only neutral mechanism that can basically be between supply and demand if there are enough players on the market to crystallise the price that can be said to be justified. So it is often heard that the mission is the regulator, that the mission is in the ministry's final line to allow cheap prices. The price should be realistic. She and we live say in the pursuit of happy circumstances she's had a constant downward trend for two to three years just because unfortunately on the customer side, that benefit doesn't notice as much as the moment she goes the other way. However, it is important to understand the market in a way that the market gives a neutral objective result. It is not an impact of either politics or someone's arbitrary decision, and basically in the long run it would have to put pressure on prices down. Therefore, anyone participating in such a market is peeled by the surplus which is not necessary for the performance of the activity. It's core, it's a basic part of energy a single market in electricity and gas. The third regulated component in Croatia is heat energy. It is regulated in one smaller component. You all know that in 2014 there was a change in the Law on the heat energy market where one attempt was made and in the heat energy, by copying to some extent the electricity and gas components of the market. The legislator then expected perhaps stronger dynamics, whether justified or unjustly not on the regulator to judge because in such processes we can only give our opinions, but we cannot make a decision. A well-known effect has also been seen in heat energy over the past few years, something that has come from the topic of energy efficiency to try to achieve savings in heat consumption itself. These are already famous divisions and calories whose implementation unfortunately did not show itself best prepared. Savings have indeed been achieved, but in individual cases there have been anomalies that have been well documented in the paper. Apparently, technical preparation has failed, so the process has been stopped to some extent. I think this government is working intensively on correcting the Law on the heat market and re-designing the concept of how to achieve energy savings whether only the possibility of measuring what was one idea or with a set of more complex procedures that would be well-prepared, not quickly and then give results over time. Heat energy trend has taken over the decline in energy prices, which are normally the primary energy sources for heat production, so gas pro primo and oil derivatives that we know have fallen for a time, so it was on average and a certain drop in heat price might not be quite appropriate because in that free part of the heat supplier they did not necessarily need to reflect, but they often kept their prices on account of what their revenues had to do, so the heat energy felt slightly less favourable situations on the primary energy market. However, the fact is that heat energy has been for years not to say for decades an absolutely subinvested category in the Republic of Croatia, that prices were artificially held at a very low level and that perhaps it wasn't just a negative aspect of the fact that there was a correction of thermal energy a few years ago, and that it might not be following the fall. First of all, it is about the consolidation of such companies to find a new modern model, which is likely to be the result of a law that is currently being prepared. What I would not have specifically talked about were two other energy components that are very important in the EU, but are not primarily the tasks of regulators. It's a complex of energy efficiency and it's a complex of renewable sources. But in this last one, one must look back because we know that this is a topic that has been active for a long time. It is not so current in 2015, but if I remind you of one fact, which is that in 2015 there were 10% of total production capacity in the Republic of Croatia, however the price of stimulating energy due to the system as it was set was practically at that point three times the market price. So that's when the problems were presented, then they were present and written. We as a regulator have a limited ability to influence because I repeat, we do not make decisions, we try to implement them and make regulated components of the system. However, we tried to warn that such elements always lead to pressure on the price of electricity for the buyer. This is also a fact that has been known since 2001 when the Croatian Energy Strategy defined renewable sources as sources of interest for the Republic of Croatia. By 2007, when they were postulated and the system of renewable sources and encouraging production from renewable sources started, then it was known by then that the legislators pointed to the fact that, over time, this must also result in some pressure on the price of electricity in customers. But ultimately on the ministry, it is for decision-makers to see this situation clearly that there have been no security elements in the past that could control what it means to stimulate production from renewable sources, how it is quantified and how it is controlled. But this is the problem the ministry faces today, and we hope to the extent that we, as a regulator, will be able to help with the advice, that we too will be able to contribute to the recognition of the situation. In any case, Croatia's result in the area of renewable sources is respectable at the level.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36798	Thank you. Time's up so you can continue during the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36799	Here's the conclusion. So I finally think I've said enough about the role and context of the EU. Consumer protection is an area we may never highlight enough
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36800	I'm asking you now half a minute has passed and you will proceed in your second address. Thank you very much. ... We have two replicas. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He is the first respected colleague of Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36801	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Dear Mr. Jurekovic. Since HERA provides preventive opinions on the granting of quotas in energy, I wonder why I care about signing the contract and giving quotas to power plants for alternative energy sources, and I primarily think about biogas plants. Is it true that the quota is gone for them? Biogas plants are in good condition to deal with and deal with biowaste and fertilisers as well as biomass. The Croatian state has invested millions of kunas in operational programmes in livestock, and now, due to the nitrated directive and the lack of land for the disposal of fertilisers and farms, it will close. That's why we solve three problems with these biogas plants. We provide biowaste and manure, respect the nitrate directive and produce energy from alternative sources. I'm still interested in what's so-called. the speculative quotas which are not and will not be consumed, but are therefore intended for sale have not been used. Do you intend to confiscate them in accordance with the ZUP especially for the wind power plants and then re-design them in the contest for the biogas plants they need in the first place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36802	Replication response. ... Yeah, yeah, one for one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36803	First of all, I'm not sure that this is a question that we as a regulator can at least answer explicitly. The fact is that a complete system of financing renewable sources, the promotion of production from renewable sources is seen as a whole at present, but is primarily seen by the ministry responsible for energy. So, we are currently carrying out certain controls and controls, not supervision in terms of necessary surveillance due to observed anomalies, but supervision due to systematic evidence of compliance with certain conditions under which certain power plants were given their status, hence, and incentives. It is a process that primarily takes place in cogeneration plants to determine whether 50% of the consumption on the heat side is met. If this is not established, a correction of incentive prices or under certain conditions may also result in the abolition of status. In itself, we cannot intervene on quotas, the quotas are stopped at this hour, and I think that primarily given that tariff systems are those that determine quotas, and we don't bring them, we haven't even been asked in the last case specifically for opinion. What their fate will be, I think we should wait one more time, but that answer won't come from the regulator. In all those cases where we have objections to a specific situation, we're conducting an investigation to the extent that I'm not going to tell the investigation because it already sounds like powers we don't have, but we're carrying out control if needed and on the ground, if it's enough from the documentation to see if there's any later collected information. We had one such case in which it was to say one interested investor challenged the dynamics of realisation to another investor who filled out the quota and that's the process. which we led to as far as we could. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36804	Col. Jurekovic, time unfortunately two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36805	I'm usually... by overstepping, so thank you for your warning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36806	But we're trying to stick to time here. Here you go, pal Bull, you're a second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36807	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Are you aware that as a regulator, you have compromised the national security of the Republic of Croatia? Can you explain how they were assigned to renewable energy sources, how acts and allocation solutions were brought, which is why this was the last day of the year? Do you know what Croatia has to do with Vertro power plants, whether this energy infrastructure Croatian can accept everything they produce and that you have worked in the interest of wind, i.e. The foreign owners you gave that bonus to are essentially at the expense of our citizens. The ordinary citizens have been waiting for years in their households and you've been giving, giving for the wind, so the Croatian state has to pay a billion kuna this year. The citizens or Croatia had to do more than three billion kuna in the next two years to harm Croatia. You did not regulate, you worked against Croatia's interest. Why didn't you assign a citizen the last day of the year when you had meetings and necessarily the last day when you gave solutions to renewable energy sources? For a solarian example and you gave for the wind. So you favored foreign investors with damage to the Republic of Croatia, which in the next three years will cost 5 billion kuna and this year a billion and a half kuna from the state budget. It is a great shame, you have done great damage to the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36808	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36809	I am aware of the figures but I cannot answer this question as it deserves, this is the Croatian Parliament. So first of all, we have no responsibility to stop a procedure defined by law. We gave approval the moment the paperwork was correct. I can show you the dates from 2012 to the last year when we have meetings of the Governing Council in 12 months. There were Christmases and Christmases and the Old Year. So this wasn't any special anomaly, the administrative board was operating at the moment and it made a decision at the moment when the documentation of the prescribed procedure was satisfied. No wonder people came specifically in the year you've mentioned in the last seven days. However, the fact is that they had completed the documentation, they had documentation because from 9 January to 1 January of that year the legislator had left room for entry under certain conditions in the system. We have no right to stop anyone of his legally prescribed procedure if he has the paperwork filled out. And that's the only reason. Therefore, the responsibility to stop someone because of the consequences that this will cause we cannot assume because the least damage we would have is just as great litigation the other day against us. We can only fulfill what the law requires. And we've written to every ministry again, and I've personally changed three of them, about what the consequences are and what the pressure can be about financial sizes. And this and the previous and that before that. So we can't stop because something doesn't seem right. We can warn in time but when the document is filled and before us then we must make a decision, whether it's May 1st or whether it's the Old Year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36810	Thank you. And the last debate before a break on behalf of the government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, distinguished counterpart Ante Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36811	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has delivered an opinion on the report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 on the report on the achievement of the HERA budget for 2015. The work report, together with the Financial Business and Budgets Report, contains data as well as observations on certain chapters in which the assessment of the situation on a particular subject is very summed up and only gives a brief recommendation or criticism at a time. It has been noted that part of the Work Report which should clearly describe the work of HERA only lists the decisions and acts taken and the activities and duties taken without clear explanations, purposes and objectives of the implementation of the activities. This raises doubts about the effectiveness of HERA's work, especially due to perceived failures regarding the timely implementation of them. This primarily refers to the adoption of sub-legislative acts and the approval of plans for the development of energy subjects and the adoption of tariff items. After taking into account the dynamics of the adoption of acts under Hera's jurisdiction, it was observed that HERA had introduced only two tariff methodologies within the legal period while with most other acts it was significantly delayed to adopt. In accordance with the Law on the electricity market, HERA and electricity entities were obliged to adopt a number of sublegal acts and, as an obstacle to their non-administeration, stressed the need to amend the electricity market law by calling for the inability of practical implementation of existing legal solutions. However, although the amendments and additions to the laws have been adopted after more than 6 months of their entry into force, no implementing acts have been adopted to which HERA gives consent and this Regulation for the procedure for the connection of new power plants to the transmission network, the network rules of the transmission system, the network rules of the distribution system, the rules and the price list of non-standard services of the distribution system operator have been adopted. A significant delay in the adoption of acts has led to an even more significant delay in the real implementation of energy regulation. Failures in the approval of energy development plans and delays in the adoption of tariff methodologies have also been observed. The Government also notes that HERA should take all measures and activities aimed at equating income and expenditure, and in particular impact its business policy on savings in all segments of its business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36812	I thank Secretary of State Chikotić. Now we'll take a break and continue the debate at 3:00. The first will be the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honorable counterpart Miro Bulj. Thank you. It's the 13th 28th hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36813	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The agenda point is - Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 Carrier: Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency I am opening the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most applied to the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36814	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear President HERA, I would at first ask you a few questions before the argument itself that we did not get an answer during your presentation. Well, here's to the heat sector, the divisor. Why, as a regulator, will you deny your responsibility for many of the bad sides of the Law on the Market for Heat Energy adopted in 2013 when the highly positioned representatives of HERA and its director have been full members of the working groups established for the purpose of preparing the law in the institutions of the Energy Institutes of Croatia Pozar and the Ministry of Economy since the very beginning of the process of creating the law. The second question is why you did not protect the Heat Sector from the many unwanted phenomena encountered in 2013 and including in 2015, where you were well aware as a regulator of the fact that it was a sector with many benefits in the socio-economic sense. Benefite, which is why many EU Member States are legally protecting the sector from excessive liberalisation. The third question in terms of heat industry is why you did not react as a regulator when adopting the EU Energy Efficiency Directive in Croatian legislation and the Law on the Heat Market in 2013 is left out of its very important part, which allows each Member State to have the possibility of a prior verification of the economic viability of the installation of the divisor. A check carried out by most EU member states prior to the creation of the legislative framework. Four on heat, how as a regulator you explain the fact that, by definition, you have seriously compromised your ultimate independent position as a national regulator on two occasions. The first time you accepted the sponsorship of going to Denmark and visiting the production plants of the powerful international group Danfoss, which has a huge business interest in the installation of the divisor itself. The second time your Director of the Heat Sector Mr. Benčić and member of the Governing Council Mr. Pudic participated in various stands throughout the countries by actuating actively for the installation of divisors because of their efficiency and cost-effectiveness and in terms of heat and divisors. The fifth question, why, as a regulator, you allowed the content of the law on the heat market in which for the end-user – the tenant was left with any legal protection of their rights in the event of any divisional problems, and you left the question of qualifications to the firm for the installation of the same case. Here are the questions for the gas sector. For which reasons, as regulator, you did not give consent to PLINACRO to report the construction of an evacuation pipeline for the LNG terminal and EU funds. After the meeting of Minister Dobrovic with EU Energy Commissioner Mr. Kanet, it is quite certain that the construction of LG terminals will be financed from EU funds, while the cost of building an evacuation terminal of around 200 million kunas due to your failure in place of the EU funds will now be financed by Croatian citizens' money. The second question is why 90% of your regulations as a regulator in the gas sector do not respect the legal obligation and time limits of consultation with the interested public, but you reduce the deadlines to only a few days. As far as gas is concerned, third question. Why, as a regulator, you allow a multi-year anti-zonal situation in which gas suppliers are allowed to charge two gas prices at one calculated point of measurement, which is at the expense of citizens and increases the profits of suppliers. The fourth question, as a regulator, how do you comment on a situation where large gas distributors are self-initiately changing the price of gas that you as a regulator have given him several months earlier and approved. In the winter of 2015, City gas station Zagreb sent a request for a price reduction, and HERA approved it in March. Sector three on renewable energy sources I have three questions to ask you. First, why you did not prevent the threat of the Croatian state as a regulator, but in spite of warnings from the EU, you continued with the practice of issuing a solution on the mandated status of the obligation to buy electricity from renewable sources of energy that were often issued at your phantom sessions, yours accidentally held on the last day of the current year in which sublegal regulations were regularly handled by private interests only, and to the harm of citizens and the Republic of Croatia. Another question on renewable energy sources, what do you say as a regulator to the fact that in most cases, when a priority solution was issued, you never went into field because that facility in Benkovac and Babina Greda would never have been given that solution because they did not meet the requirements prescribed by law? Under three, on renewable energy sources, the third question, are you even aware that as a regulator, you have managed to compromise the national security of this country with one-off financial obligations under the item of renewable energy sources in the coming years through which only private old capital will benefit, and the country is having a problem at all receiving electricity produced in such facilities due to the lack of transmission system and inability to regulate voltage and electricity frequencies. I will give you these questions in writing, and I hope you can answer these questions to our parliamentary representatives and before the public. Here I also hold before me data on who is interested in the MPs, and perhaps the whole public can deliver, how late you are with the documents that you had to bring, acts of all the laws prescribed, turns out that HERA in... regulations that it had legal obligation to bring for 27 years. It means total when I read how many months late you've been bringing in all the acts, you haven't actually done anything. And your only obligation is as regulatory agencies to bring these documents. Now that I read all the documents and delays per month means 27 years you're late with the paperwork. And you didn't say that. Your only task is to pay the one-off salary you receive and to regulate the market and to protect the interests of citizens and the state, you are 27 years behind on the adoption of these documents. Well, here's what I can explain. By 31.12.2015, HERA did not agree with the adoption of acts... in accordance with its powers to ensure the delivery of acts of consent for which other power-generating entities are responsible in its jurisdiction. Regulation for the process of connecting new power plants to the transmission network, network rules of the transmission system, network rules of the distribution system, rules and price list of not standard operator services and distribution systems. In view of the significant delay in the adoption of tariff methodologies for energy activity and distribution and transport, or the transport of a tariff methodology for the energy activity of the production of thermal energy distribution and supply, and the methodology for determining the compensation for joining the network of new ones and for increasing the integration of new power and capacity of existing energy entities and end-users, HERA also acted on a timely basis to establish tariff headings for the application of certain tariff methodologies, and to monitor the work of energy subjects subject to regulation. HERA was significantly delayed in approval or even missed to approve and assess the implementation of a ten-year plan for the development of operators... systems and operators of the transport system. I would once again say that the most surprising thing on the ground floor is the wind power plant, where it was obviously favourable to the damage of the state and the citizens to certain government legal acts in 2015 at the last session, and you as a regulator know it very well, that large damages have been done so that Croatia must pay a billion-and-a-half kuna to foreign investors this year and in the next two years another 3.5 billion means five billion kuna at the expense of Croatian citizens or at the expense of the budget. So here is one conclusion that we also send to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which must be after all that has been done in terms of the energy system and your agency as a regulator of this huge market that has not protected neither citizens nor the Croatian energy system, in front of the MOST Club, we are looking for a resolution of the HERA Governance Council because of its inefficientness because they are brakers of the development of energy projects in Croatia. It is obvious that he is not ready to bring any documents and that he is 27 years late in total with all the documents per month. When we take some late year, some five, some three months. All sectors in energy are complaining about you on HERA that you are essentially an anti-registration system, not a regulator. We've made a comprehensive argument, and we're going to refer to the government. let the Government not accept this part and the competent ministry as well as the Committee on the Economy and Environmental Protection do not accept your reports, because this is how national stability is threatened, and the very important portfolio for which Croatia is rich, it is an energy portfolio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36815	I thank my esteemed colleague Miri Bulju for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36816	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Bulj, you have brought forth a lot of irregularities, a lot of some objections to the work of HERA as a regulator in the field of energy, energy. And the fact is, this report for 2015 has not hidden many of the illogicalities you've brought yourself. And indeed, it's almost more or less what you were talking about. In particular, it concerns the fact that some of the gaps that are clearly mentioned in this 2015 report have been lightly viewed. Certainly, the worst failure is that the average weighted electricity price is 0,95 kuna per kilowatt, which is three times the price of what we can get from imports of energy from Slovenia and Hungary. What is the interest of the Republic of Croatia in paying such a price since it is three times more expensive than what we can get on the energy market? Then it says that a number of investors, in late 2015, wanted to move ahead of the application of the new law, set out to speed up the outcome of a number of documents for their investments, and it all sort of ended up at the 12th month famous decisions of the then government, where individuals really did benefit from it, and that even no one has to hide that many state services were doing overtime so that the law-making state itself would do itself the damage that counterpart Bulj is talking about. And how is it possible for HERA to allow wind power plants to amount to 400 MW and you allow it, i.e. A 744 MW is agreed as stated in the report here. So twice as much we've allowed along with the regulatory body and all stakeholders knowing that we're doing damage to ourselves in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36817	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for the replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36818	Well yes, at the last session, I am sorry that there is no former Economy Minister Vrdoljak, Milanovic's Government, that decision has been taken under some social criteria where poor citizens should have been allowed to use some kind of power limitors, big damage has been done to the Croatian state, so this year only the Croatian state has to pay, i.e. from the budget of a billion and a half kuna to foreign investors due to renewable energy sources, i.e. The subsidies that you said where 95 lips per KW and these are huge enormous one-off damages and while our citizens for solars 5 billion kuna we have to pay in three years that the whole of Croatia put on the solar plants would mean 5 billion kunas so much that we have so many energy sources. I believe that the regulatory agency did not regulate but anti-regulatory anti-interest, so HERA, against the interest of the Republic of Croatia and by way of an act of wind 5 billion kuna tells you how much damage the Republic of Croatia has done and in this budget there has to be a billion and a half kuna in order not to collect electricity to the citizens. It's a sad decision where our potentials are essentially given to foreigners, i.e. The gain of the great went into their hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36819	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply to the replica. The President of the Governing Council of HERA, Mr Tomislav Jurekovic, has appeared on behalf of the applicant for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36820	... Mr. President. [[Specially enabled.]] So this is gonna be hard in 5 minutes to answer all these questions, but I'm gonna try to concentrate just on the part that I really think you should react to right now. So on the one hand, I know a good part of these questions for about a year and a half. For the first time, this document appeared somewhere in February 2016, so he was experiencing various derivatives and processing to end up in the form of a government opinion and now I see from a gentleman, a respected representative of the same thesis. So on answers to questions like those listed I'm going to try partly now, partly in the final word. We're essentially watching if we use the notion of a national security threat, then I think we really went a little further. It can now be interpreted by different answers. Whether it's a consequence of a lack of understanding or of a lack of information or of a bad intention, I'll, say, choose to make this a different one. Although stylishly speaking, one of our colleagues from the Dutch regulators says, "If everything you have in your hands is a hammer, then everything looks like nails to you," so that's the style I learned a little bit, but let me answer it like this. The 27 years that someone came up with can be compared to one of the counter-analysiss that we did after we heard in 27 years, it was 36. If you add the laws and rules to all that Croatia has passed in its regulations, then it is the delay of various governments and various ministries until today's day of 85 years. Does it make sense to talk about it? If you bring a regulation that does not have a previous element, then you probably can't bring it or you can bring it in to bring it in. If you need to bring a consent document that you're given to him on... The way you confirm it, and that's the second element that's being inputd here, then you bring it back, I guess, at a time when it's good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If he's not good, then you're asking him to fix himself by the time he gets good enough to.../The speaker doesn't understand. Otherwise, consent serves nothing if you're not behind them. Well, we brought such consent to the moment when the documents were made, and that is to say, plans or sublegal acts to which we must give consent were such that we could stand behind them, hence delays. This is not exactly happy, but it may not be happy, nor is it, when the law passed in the end line by the competent ministries and confirmed by this Assembly, is passed by laws which cannot be implemented in real terms within the prescribed deadlines. That's why I'm saying, if we're going to sum up 27 years of us, 50 years of the ministry and 80 years of the government, then we're not going anywhere. The whole point is whether the documents are brought in real terms and whether they have the value used. So, do you and such methodologies, sublegal regulations and consent to plans have any useful meaning. I think a good part of the question that's focused here stems from the fact that somewhere in the past some of these documents have been passed perhaps something passing than they could have been. That's a basic comment. I don't think I'd like to mention the national security threat. The chain of administrative confirmation, the ability of investors to become part of the incentive system contains 6 or 7 documents. The ministry brings basics, he runs it with some kind of energy approval. It is then necessary to confirm the connection to the network in the previous energy consensus and obtain prior consent. So the construction body gets some kind of permission, so eventually, the CAPS confirms the possibility of joining and gets the accession contract. So you get final consent and eventually the HROT chain makes a deal. So there are six assumptions why it's ours that's crucial and that we're expected to protect the national threat. Maybe the building permit could have protected her. So, I think it's pointless to talk like this. If I'm going to have space in the final word, I'm going to comment on concrete answers, but basically, this is pretty far apart from the truth, and I wouldn't comment on the alternative facts, and I think my time is up, so I'm going to stay when I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36821	I thank the Honorable President of the Governing Council of HERA, Mr Tomislav Jurekovic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Darko Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36822	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored colleague Jurekovic, respected parliamentary deputies and MPs. So here's after discussions on two committees, so the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Environmental Protection, I'm kind of thinking about following this debate today that we've been discussing a lot today, but we've missed the measure of what's a fact and why this report is being submitted. So, I'll just be in short lines before I go about the report itself to give two facts here that we should all have and know before we get involved in this debate. So, for 2015, and if I understand it well for about a month or two, we have the same document for 2016, so today this debate may be deplaced for a simple reason because we will know about the actual situation in about a month or two. But what is relevant and irrefutable and is part of this Report, so the independent auditor found in that financial sense that no irregularities were found in HERA. The second factual state is a document that is very much discussed and spoken about here today, and is related to the basis of the Energy Activity Act of the Regulatory Procedure of the Ministry of Economy in 2016 over the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. After that, certain meetings began to take place on 30 May, and this topic will be a safe subject of HERA's 2016 Report. So I repeat again and somehow try to get you back into what should be the subject of this debate is the report by the energy regulator in the Republic of Croatia for 2015. And now as angry as we are, how angry the energy subjects are at whether the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the third package of the same legislation that came from the European Commission. Therefore, it would not be among the first and the open and closed in that negotiating process, chapter 15 of energy, if that were not the case. So, we received a third energy package somewhere in 2009. Half of 2009 started to reconstruct the legislative framework and in 2012 he came before representatives to the Croatian Parliament and these, this package of four and five laws was adopted here. Also in 2009, and it is good here from this pay phone to say whether because of the lack of knowledge of the system or simple negligence and ignorance this same House of the Croatian Parliament has unanimously adopted the Energy Development Strategy. And out of sadness, I'd say it's kind of the energy sector-related problem. So for almost two years, the government of the Republic of Croatia has constructed a document called the Energy Development Strategy. A year after that, a public hearing took place in all instances which should have made their comments on the document. After that, the parliamentary committees had the opportunity to comment on the strategic document, and eventually it revived in 2009. He revived a piece of paper that had a title and had its contents, but never after did he revive anything that was written in that document. There was simply one almost so verse in the energy market of the Republic of Croatia for several reasons. First because, for several years now, all those energy projects defined in this Strategy are difficult, demanding, seeking synergies between local administrations and self-government and central states, creating a problem of environmental pollution, a lot of interference. But, ladies and gentlemen, this House adopted a strategic document, it made a decision it had to make, that decision was difficult and it was in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to build on this strategic document a programme of implementation of that strategy. In 2010, it moved towards the creation of this programme, but after the 2011 elections, the document no longer sees the light of the day because it has very demanding procedures and financial and ines of other nature. But what is important is to say, in 2012, a set of laws that should have been in line with that strategic document in this House gets the green light. One of these laws is the Energy Regulation Act, which is the basis for the Croatian regulator's daily engagement in the energy market. And now I'm just going to try to suggest what the Energy Development Strategy is talking about. In 2009, the Croatian Parliament tasked the Government of the Republic of Croatia and public enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to build the third block of TE in Plomin, HE in Kosinj, HE Ombla, HE on the Drava River, HE on the Sava River, and it is now coming out of God's grace. And here, several times from this pay phone, it was said that Croatia is highly dependent on the sun, wind and water, so on everything that we look into the sky that we expect from the dear God. In this way, an adequate Energy Strategy in line with the low-carbon strategy that gave the green light to these projects, with the Industrial Strategy, with the Smart Specialisation Strategy, simply does not network. And what did we come up with? We have come to talk in 2017 about a new energy development strategy. So I'm going to ask every person who knows anything about the energy system of the Republic of Croatia, what's it going to say in that new strategic energy document? What new projects can we invent without a blood count of Croatian energy being more favourable and injected into a little more red blood cells that live and give life inside the bloodstream to one such system? Where's Hera's intelligence now? So at the time they were constructed or constructed in that regulated activity five or ten years of plans, the Croatian regulator is the one who verifys them and the Croatian regulator is the one who monitors whether these plans are being implemented on a daily basis. Responsible in the last five years or six of these plans by energy companies has not been implemented in one hundred percent. So when we see and we are aware that someone is not doing their job, so the Croatian regulator in my opinion is the one who has to suggest that something is going wrong. And just one short elemental mathematical question. In the past year, we had a growth of the Croatian economy at 3.3%. Let's just try to imagine a trend in the next ten years, the growth of the economy will be proportionally monitored by energy consumption. With the application of all energy efficiency mechanisms, we will achieve such a trend in increasing consumption by about 30 percent. Today from this pay phone from the president of the board of directors, we had a chance to hear what, we're a big importer. I won't count oil, gas and electricity but 30 to 50%. With a trend in the development of the Croatian economy at level 3 or 5% in ten years of doing nothing, not by building buildings based on energy production we will be addicted to a level of 70 percent. What do we do then? At that time, we can blame ourselves on HERA, on energy companies that work on the open market in the segment of their daily services, but also have another segment of activity. You've heard from this pay phone that we've hired someone to deal with what's-his-name. the public service, so by the market, with that deregulated activity that is related to the price of kilowatt hours of electricity, someone has been given the obligation to build a system. The system builds from a tariff or from some loans that will have to be returned through its business. Also this someone, we have obliged him to provide a public or universal service. None of our energy companies are doing this for nothing, and it's not immune from that cost. So when we turn this system called energy into a single package today, when we segment this package on oil, gas, electricity, Heat, and then I'll leave two minutes for this story about renewable sources and try to demystify that story as to why such or such problems happened, so here we're talking about five different intertwined and very networked sectors of which you believe me or not, none of them can function independently on the energy market of the Republic. And what is an intelligence but also a task, but also a responsibility of politics, believe it or not, never so far, these five presidents of key energy companies in the Republic of Croatia have not held a joint college and have not jointly considered strategic documents essential for the development of energy in the Republic of Croatia. And this story of a renewable source is not an isolated story of a respected lady and gentlemen. All of you who think that with one stick or one conductor stick you can intervene in a system of renewable sources rather than get positive or negative effects on the entire system or on some other segments of the energy system you are completely wrong. So the moment the energy strategy said that the Croatian system in 10 years wanted to enter a contingent of some 1600 MW distributed production from renewable sources in backup took the same theory and said that but we must make at least so many production facilities of basic, stable, energy production. And what is somehow particularly wrong with me, at some point perhaps even politics said Croatia does not need production. A small part of that sentence is also related to the fact that Croatia does not need the production of energy. So during a long, long period of time, we built interconnections through which we can today supply the foreign energy market even three times as much as the Croatian economy and Croatian households need and require it today. But where we lost that fundamental postulate of energy development, that fundamental postulate of introducing new technologies, which is production. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are in the last, but I will not forget to skip, so we have made Lesce, us except Lesc and a small cogeneration here in Zagreb, have not done a single important, strong, large, energy production facility, a basic energy production with which we would cancel the need for imports of energy, with which we would eventually obtain certain regulatory procedures to enable the entry of unstable renewable sources into the system itself and with which we would ultimately make or start building Croatian energy independence even if I am sure that it is a long and painful road to this end. So, I agree with HERA's failure to bring sublaws in time, but I also agree with the fact that we spoke here about a month ago and discussed that the gas in Croatia would collect 25%. Where are now these energy philosophers who sneered and admired Croatian citizens with such theories not knowing that there is a methodological approach through which prices and the height of tariff items are determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36823	I thank my esteemed colleague Horvato At this debate. [[Intruder Horvat: Thank you very much.]] We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague of the Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36824	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, fellow Horvat, I must admit that with great care and interest I have listened to your expert exposure, a lot of these things I don't know because I'm not from that profession but what I concluded from this debate that HERA was generally doing what it was founded for and what it was intended to do. However, I am interested in one other thing and this is the 2009 Energy Development Strategy. And you yourself noted that no larger production energy facility was created that was intended for this strategy. We all want cheap energy, we all want a clean environment, and normally, we'd just like something not to be done in our neighborhood, but we need energy, our domestic energy that we don't have to import it but it's not exactly in our backyard. So I'm personally interested in your position on this 2009 Energy Development Strategy, do you think it must change completely, do you still think that some things are good from that strategy and that they should have already been realised, if not to go into realisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36825	I thank my esteemed colleague, Christmas, at least for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36826	Well, respected parliamentary MPs, what's definitely certain, if we'd done anything from that strategy today we'd be more energy independent, we'd have in an energy mix far, far cheaper KW electricity. And aware of the fact that we, in fact, by energy, primarily electricity are supplied from two of us neighbouring stable sources, one is in Slovenia, the other is in Hungary, with stable interconnections in the space of the Republic of Croatia comes a sufficient and sufficient amount of energy and energy in the segment of electricity. And these interstate contracts that enter one part of the ownership structure, at this point, are being carried out in a stable and secure manner. Let us not forget that 50% of our ownership at the Krško nuclear power plant in 2023 passes an additional stress test. I dare not imagine what if this stress test shows the need for decumification of the nuclear power plant and the Croatian power system turns out to be an additional 400 MW installed power. So imagine one situation and a Croatian partnership with, say, a check. In the installed power we have 4200 MW of stable energy production, of which some of the facilities are already preserved today as our thermal power plant in Urinj gas power plant in Zagorje etc., etc.. Our peak summer and winter is somewhere at a level of 3600 megavat. So Croatia has no regulatory capacity, Croatia does not have enough energy to patch up and patch up its spikes and discontinuities in some regular supply and consumption. And if we don't take the job, and we're only going to take the job, I'm not going to say the order, but with a lot of pressure from both this Parliament and the Government of Public Enterprises in the Republic of Croatia. We will have on the energy side with that blood count in the energy segment very quickly very big problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36827	I thank my esteemed colleague Horvato for his reply. We'll compensate this time for the next answer. Next replica, distinguished colleague Anton Kleman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36828	Comrade Horvath, here I am listening to you as well. Half of it I didn't understand, I have to admit, because you're extremely professional in explaining this issue. And by hanging out with you in the last government, it's really been a pleasure listening to you listen to how well you know all this together. For those of us who are not those professions, we need to sort of bring it down a little bit to the ground to understand it better. But what we have managed to understand is that we are in some way hostage to the particular interests of some energy companies in Croatia that are cheaper to import electricity than to produce in our area. And I wonder if we have any tools, pressures on them to still do what we have to do, to be as independent as possible in energy production. Because without energy here today, we know for ourselves that wars have been fought. Today, wars are being waged for those energies that could give one well-being to the Western way of life, so to continue that life that we're all used to. And so, I think we're overly irresponsible to this problem, so we don't get into a situation that if we close the tentacles on some other side to lose what's basically the circulation of every country. So I'm wondering if we can have a tool to push these companies to finally start investing in line with a strategy like you said that wasn't misspelled but the performance was a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36829	I thank my esteemed colleague Kleman for his reply. Dear fellow Horvath, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36830	Here's colleague Kliman, I kind of thank you for this question, and this question of yours is actually continuing to be directed by the Croatian regulator. Therefore, the Croatian regulator in this energy segment must allow deregulation, must ensure deregulation and must create a competition. At the same time as the energy market, we can discuss and introduce in our debate a new category in which I didn't even want to speak in this presentation, which is so-called. security supplies. So, always have an alternative supply direction, always have back up in production and always have the opportunity to with one playful price-competitive market you have the possibility of intervention. And such intervention must not be dropped by the government or the regulator.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36831	I thank my esteemed colleague Horvato for his reply. The next call came from an esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36832	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to ask a colleague from HDZ one question. In fact, we all know that the divisions introduced the CNS's past power amongst others. And it is evident today after all the knowledge the public has that these divisions do not bring savings and that their installation is very expensive. So I'm interested in what you, as the ruling coalition, have done in this matter to free the citizens of that expensive imposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36833	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. The answer, dear colleague Horvath, is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36834	Dear colleague Pernar, nothing but the situation surrounding the introduction of divisors begins with someone's birth and someone's identification and detection of anomalies in the system. When you neglect toplinism for a certain long time, when even the regulator and the government do not intervene in an adequate way then your cancer gets metastasy, and in order to solve it you have to take the scalpel and surgically remove it. At one point when it started to debate how it really measured and measured the amount of heat spent in the housing units was in some ways already late. In 2009 and 10 years of construction of the Law on Production, Transfer and Distribution, i.e. production, transfer, distribution, distribution and heat supply, I suggested that each housing unit has the option of choosing how to supply heat energy. So today you have technologically already several modes with which you can also individual buildings that have several housing units and each individual housing unit within such a building and divisors that are connected to a centralised distribution system without a lot of losses very effectively measured. But what must happen in that chain, so the set of all those individual measurements must be at least approximately the same or the same as that produced and produced in the system. If there is a discontinuity of these numbers, then the losses are so great that these divisions in practice don't help you and lead you to the ultimate goal. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36835	I thank my colleague Horvato for his reply. And the last replica of this debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36836	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvat. In your debate, you called and challenged energy experts who said there was going to be a gas collection, you shouldn't have called them because there was a gas collection, not 20%, but a few percent, or 1%, of what Prime Minister Plenkovic puts down how many lips two, three, four, five of what people can be funny and funny here everyone who wants to. But the citizens aren't laughing and there's no small collection for some, I'd say, top economic logic but the cost has gone to someone, and it doesn't have to be some genius to put some expense on HEP something to the distributors and then you say here's the thing that didn't add up. So we see from that side that Mr. Maric had been thinking for a long time about how to sign a contract on behalf of the HEP Assembly, the board of directors, opposed the fact that he owed HEP in order to keep the promises made by Prime Minister Plenkovic and I said, in the end, he was joking in the way he collected whatever it was. So you don't need to call the experts, the gas's collected, not as much as it was announced, but it's collected. And the question of how long this model of sustainable spending is on HEP and how much this will cost HEP at the end of the year, or how it will be manifested in the coming years, or how it would be just to keep the gas from collecting two months before the local elections. So be realistic and say that there is no special economic logic but that the cost has passed on to another collection, and someone will make a living.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36837	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36838	Dear colleague Maras. Still around me is the echo of your 27 announcements was and every opportunity you had and the opportunity when we discussed the gas market law you used and started with a sentence of the price of gas will collect 25%. But I also remember it was last year, though, when you performed a performance here, so through tax reform, you were afraid of how much it would collect bread, milk and some other supplies. I'll be a little sarcastic, I hope you brought that basket back to Dion because at the end of the year when the girls were doing inventory, they're gonna miss the basket. But the price of gas has accumulated 0.9%, and this is not because of the overfishing of Croatian public companies, but because of the analysis that we found that all of these methodologies, while HERA was supposed to monitor and monitor the implementation of all of those plans that it verified, led to a very large amount of airspace for us. And it's not in vain that my sentence from the 3rd month last year that the administrations of these public enterprises last month should have changed not because they are politically incompatible, but because these people are responsible for the realization of their plans. And when you see that there were twenty percent and even more because in your mandate we increased the price of electricity three times, accumulated some money in public enterprises that we don't even know what it was spent on today because in the realisation of business economic plans it wasn't because they ended up four years in favour somewhere below 80%.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36839	I thank my esteemed colleague Horvato for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the applicant, the Honorable President of the Governing Council of HERA, Mr Tomislav Jurekovic, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36840	This is just an attempt to complete this topic on my part. So the conversation was about investments, unrealised investments and the position of HERA, so let me just clarify that detail. Therefore, HERA does not exist in production through its methodologies in relation to the network activities of HERA. Production and energy mix is a matter of national strategy and national ministry. That's the part I said at the beginning that's not under the control of the ministry, but the networks are. If investments in the network are not realised then in the continuity of the determination of tariffs for transport or distribution, this shall be taken into account in the next round. This means that, for example, the gas that we are now talking about is the fact that, for example, gas distributors 1.1 in the regular determination of the amount of their tariff distribution is the fact that they have not realised their investments, plus in my view that... in the country they have fallen with a 12% lower tariff. Therefore, the price of unrealised plans in network activities can be seen year by year. There's a way that it doesn't go completely out of control. Production is another story. Let's just round up maybe this part of the plan, and we'll do the rest later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36841	I thank Mr Tomislav Jurekovic for this debate. We have a replica of a esteemed colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36842	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurekovic. Since you are directly in charge and regulate this market and I believe that you have much better information than what we have in the House since you are daily in communication and with distributors and watch certain things work, say in your opinion, is it really ingenious that I would say the invention of this government when they overturned the cost to distributors and to HEP or it's a simple matter of mathematics. Someone has to pay the difference in the price of gas. Is this something that really needs to be praised by HDZ and MOST as they remember it or is the fact that this difference in gas price will pay again in a different way for Croatian citizens. For example, in the city of Zagreb, gas will not collect, but it will obviously be Mayor Bandic subsidizing this small price difference to subsidize the gas company in a way that we pay from the city budget. Or HEP, which is a public enterprise, means ownership of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia will cost more for gas 300, 400 million kuna per year. He'll have to pay for it again. So please explain to us whether HEP will have more gas and gas supplies than it has had in recent years for people to know that they are paying for it, not that Plenkovic and Minister Dobrovic remembered something that no one could remember so far. It's from the left in the right pocket. So at the end of the day, someone has to pay for it, they won't pay at the full price of the citizens in this way, but they may pay from a local budget in the city of Zagreb or from a public business budget such as HEP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36843	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Mr Tomislav Jurekovic's Tomislav Jurekovic's esteemed chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36844	Thank you very much for asking, Mr. Maras. You'll be so kind that you'll let me stay for just one part of that answer because if I already plead that I don't always listen to executive authority, then I can't even give myself the right to give the executive authority a doctor. So I assume that, and the price of public service, gas supplies are still regulated but regulated in a way that the state determines the price at the OVT level. It's still an element of this law, so it's not in the hands of the regulators, but in the hands of the state to determine his price, we're just receiving it as information. The ministry probably knew since it was already known on January 1st that the distribution according to the regular and regular annual tariff analysis would go 12% down. Since in our regular consultations we already knew and made it clear to the ministry that the transport component of prices will be about 20% lower, therefore these are one and the other regular procedures that take place at the annual pace and which because of the fact that the average capital ratio or weighted average capital cost of capital in Croatia is approximately halved due to the fact that some unrealised investments had to be squeezed in some way, it was known that there was one part of the price that could be reduced. It was fully in the government's authority, or ministry, to determine the missing component on the large supply market, which is missing HEP. I really can't judge how they got to that mathematics because in this HERA is neither involved nor consulted about it because it shouldn't be. So I can tell you about the natural decline that is due to one part of it, the rest was obviously the ministry's decision or their assessment but based on information that we don't have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36845	I thank Mr. Jurekovic for his reply to the replica. We're moving on to individual debates. The first one came to the debate with a distinguished colleague, Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36846	Your Honor, Mr. Jurekovic. Here's my first pleasure when we're talking about the 2015 Report and what's been certified in 2015. So by respecting the two levels of obligations you have here, I'd like to say more about the perception of users on the ground towards HERA. So what they're experiencing with HERA is that it's one as well as most agencies, that it's one agency that imposes a lot of unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles in front of users and some of them are justified and some are not. I would highlight here those I find important to remove and if you think they are removed you should work to increase visibility and get a different perception of users according to HERA. I'd split those obstacles into three groups. The first group means these obstacles or defects mean in the business of HERA is that there is no coordination with other state institutions. In particular, these are the deadlines of HERA, HOPS and CROTE. They believe that in cohesion or in practice it happened that HERA issued consent to carry out energy activities, for example HROTE does not sign a buy-in contract or sign it only after 3 years or means the contract is signed but you have no one to sell the energy because the market is not formed. So it's been years to consume certain permits, and I'd like you to look back on that in the end. The second group of obstacles are the conditions for obtaining a license to trade in electricity. Stop most of these obstacles I mention refer to electricity trade. So what are the conditions that create problems? A three-year development plan is required and planning 3 years in advance in the electricity trade is not possible by the nature of the electricity trade, and I do not know what value this kind of plan is created by HERA. Another would be proof of ownership or the right to use a business space. Since legal persons are registered, they already have to deliver some lease contract to the tax authority and it is not clear to them why they have to give evidence twice to different institutions that they have one space in which they operate. For example, for other licences such as those for supply, a number of other conditions are required whose justification is questionable, for example. a description of the IT system and the like shall be required for electricity supply licences. Now, the third group of these obstacles, which may be the most powerful one, and it's like you said yourself that we're going to pull one link from 2016, so I'd like to go a little bit forward, or a year back. Article 4 is replaced by the following: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So it allows EU companies to operate on our own, to operate in the Republic of Croatia. Those in their area do not have such bureaucratic procedures for obtaining licences for their business. And I think Mrs. Taritash has already mentioned such problems, let's say, with builders from Norway who are coming to do business in our area. We now have a problem with tourist guides who in Croatia have the same difficult procedures to carry out their activities and recently we have discussed these kind of licenses for hunters or licenses for the purchase of weapons that are stricter in Croatia than in other countries. But so this Article 4 allows them to operate, they are in one privileged position. You mentioned Denmark, in Denmark it is much easier to register for these activities related to electricity, and we know that three Danish companies with electricity operate in Croatia, so we should see how we will deregulated this market, how we will allow our companies from the Republic of Croatia to be in the same position. So in the final report, I would like you to refer to this moment if you consider it serious, and in order to understand the needs of power market regulation by HERA. It is important that, in the future, HERA activities are clearly defined in relation to HOPS, in relation to CROATIA and especially in relation to the electricity market, it must not be possible to assume that HROTS and HOPS are quasi regulators and that HERA is one regulator over regulators. There you go, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36847	I thank my dear colleague, Dragica Roscic, for this debate. The next call came in for a hearing from a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, when we talk about the 2015 Report, we can't get the impression that this report may not be the main focus now. About HERA in the past year and a few days the most debate was between the executive government, the government and the agency in a way that the previous government, so in mid-2016 wanted to go to Hera leadership resolution, put new people. Dissatisfaction culminated in Mr Panenic's letters. Now we see that Mr. Dobrović feels the same way. But the fact is, ever since the first such thing came out on the face of the day, it's been a year. Here's almost a year from the sixth month of last year. Nothing's going on. This shows you that MOST or the government of HDZ and MOST do not control the situation, i.e. they do not know how to solve the problem for which they themselves have found that the problem, although after some vision, may be a problem and there is no reason why HERA is doing its job, that the energy market in Croatia is functioning, that it is regulated, that certain things are happening and that we do not see concrete difficulties daily related to HERA's work. So I don't see it. I can listen to Mr Dobrovic's and MOST's remarks that some rules were not passed and then effectively in the media to place and add up for years how late something was. But I see things work properly with the regulatory agency. On the other hand, I also see that this is a drawback, an energy government policy. It's most visible at energy prices. When we see a gas problem that has been solved in a way that HEP must buy gas at a more expensive price than it will sell and give in distribution and eventually the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will pay the price slightly higher than they have paid so far. But I assure you, all of you, the next year when it suits the ruling coalition, we will have the addition of what we talked about two, three months ago. Then there will be no longer the need to spend part of the election here he said here and Mr from HERA that both the circumstances and the reduction of the distribution price have contributed to that. But part of the cost went to HEP. That this is the case and that some people disagreed with it also saying that HEP's management and Supervisory Board had made it difficult to sign, i.e. they did not want to sign a contract that ordered them to sign clearly the government, Prime Minister Plenkovic or Minister Maric, who is the president of the assembly. Finally, this was resolved in the last seconds of March so that the price could be defined and that the small purchase promise could be carried out, i.e. almost no gas price purchase. And what concerns most is the message from HEP that the calculation and the price difference, or how much HEP will eventually come out of that deal and the contracts signed this year with INA, will be known only at the end of the heating season 2017/2018. A year. So, at this point, we or HEP don't know how much they're going to lose on that gas and how much it's actually going to cost that public enterprise. But what we know and what I'm reminded of now is that we talked about our gas, our wealth when we talked about the gas market law MOL, or INA, we let it sell all over Europe, or where it can make more money. Many EU countries still regulate their market in such a way that what they have on their country's territory, they retain within their own country. Our government under the pressure of MOL, Hungary, the European Commission, I don't know who decided to make money and allow INA to earn more money on our wealth that still pays too little or what it draws out of our country through concession fees too little. And that's the problem and you can't get away from it. And on the other hand, I would like the experts, there may also be in the Croatian Parliament to answer whether anyone can say with certainty how much HEP will earn or lose 500 million cubic metres of gas he has contracted with INA. I'm saying what a healthy logic is saying that HEP will lose money and that there's a cost over here, a part of the cost has gone to a public company and that's what shouldn't be done. So no one has the right to pass the cost on to a public company, to a company, to take over, I would say by political decree, by decision, and to order a public company to lose money. We saw how it ended and how it ended in some cases when HEP had similar situations with Aluminium from Mostar. I am not sure that those who have made such decisions can certainly welcome 2018 and say we have done no harm and there will be no sanctions for us. It's their decision, their concern, and we'll see how it ends. What can be done in such situations, that the state is doing transparently, if it decided to protect those citizens who do not have money from the social budget enables people to subsidise the payment of a certain portion of the account. As a result of the market movement, as a result of the ministry's inability to increase prices, why would HEP pay this, and why would this price not be realistically reflected on the market? Unfortunately, I'm saying, because we don't have an effective government here, we don't have any more when we're talking specifically about the Ministry of Energy, so now we've seen the appeal and Minister Zhalac how much money is potentially threatened by the poor work of the Ministry of Environment and Nature and Energy, or by not withdrawing funds, not preparing projects and everything that follows. It seems to me here in this whole story about HERA today we have heard about wind power, about this, about what, it seems to me that this is about an unskilled attempt of political pressure and changes in the leadership of HERA, which again shows how involved the current government is, that it fails to do it for a year and a few days, although it itself claims that there are solutions in EU legislation if there is a need to change the Hera Act, and then we can change it the way the government thinks it should be. But for a year they really fail to do anything, and we are now complaining to people whether they've passed the rule a month earlier or later, and that's like the main argument why we should here or not accept their report. I'm going to say one more time, in real life I haven't heard a single argument that it feels these problems to feel on the market in project implementation, in anything that would be realistically restrictive for me would tell us to give someone trust or not to give it to him. Although I also disagree with the argument when a representative of HERA here explains that the Parliament has passed unimplementable laws and that is why they are late. That should have been said before. This cannot be said at the end when the problem is accumulated but must then be warned immediately at the beginning. If a law cannot be implemented, then perhaps in some opinion, a public act may suggest that it should not have been done in this way. Now that it's been two, three years, it's not the same for me that's supposed to move. To sum up, this whole story and it would be much better instead of this kind of report to discuss the real problems, and the real problems are just ahead of us, it's certainly the collection of energy in the coming period, and it's the problems that will happen to HEP because of this political decision by the government, which, due to the local elections this year, has transferred gas consumption to HEP, or from one pocket to another pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36849	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first came to the line from a respected colleague, Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36850	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here in his debate, colleague Maras used one term to pull-pull policy. So, I'm following what's been going on in the energy sector for the past ten years, the only pull-out policy I remember was the enormous increase in energy from 2012 to 2015 in three iterations under the pretext that we have large energy outsides, large investments in the energy sector and the conversion of the Republic of Croatia into one energy... And now I'm aware of the fact that in those energy companies that were supposed to roll those energy outs and investments in the energy sector, we are actually in a position to accumulate in these public companies the result of the increase in tariff rates or energy prices. So let's say in HEP, we've heard that for several years back, HEP has won a profit at two billion. My colleague Maras, on a nice day when, as I wish, our HEP comes out to the region and starts to do business and sell energy to the households of Hungary, Slovenia, Italy and earns money at that sale, then I will agree that this is normal, that this HEP has two billion kunas in profits. But at a time when the exclusive profit of the HEP is linked to Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian households cannot agree to the fact that we are collecting tariff items for investments, and in fact, the tariff items are accumulated in the strange profits of public enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36851	I thank my esteemed colleague, Darka Horvato. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36852	Thank you very much. Well, pull-up policy was obvious in that, and I referred to that people didn't want to sign the contract until the last second of March. So when the administration won't sign HEP, the supervisory board says I won't without the assembly's consent and then Minister Maric comes and solves the problem in the last seconds of March. It's a pull-out policy. So are these mean people out there? Or maybe they didn't want to take on the responsibility he imposed on them, we don't know whether or not the criminal responsibility imposed on them by Prime Minister Plenkovic. So is it normal for you to have HEP send a statement that the results of the operation, that it is impossible now to assess it than the results of the gas business will be seen on the basis of the contract signed now on 30 March only at the end of whether they will be positive at all, will they see it only at the end of the heating season 2017, 2018. So what kind of planning is that? How someone in a public company can tell us that they don't know if they're going to lose on that gas in the next year and a few days. How? For what? I'll tell you right away why, because they know they're gonna lose. Because they know hep will lose hundreds of millions of kuna at the job. And that's why they made such a general statement, as if we weren't lying, but at the end of the message it's very clear, from the left in the right pocket. Maybe not in this case pull the pull, but take the policy. Take it from the left, put it on the right and eventually someone will pay it again, in this case again citizens through a public enterprise and perhaps through some other costs that are not yet seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36853	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36854	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Maras you very often in your discussions, so today and in this, you have two sayings, one cannot be impressed and most of the time your debate begins and the other is to let the citizens see this. I also can't help thinking that you're going to have a lot harder to succeed than your own failure, and so let the citizens see it and believe me, it's a feature that they thus perceive in the election. And second, let the citizens see, in the four years of your term, electricity has accumulated one 12%, once 21%. That's 33% of how much math I serve. And here you have a problem with these and not 1 but 0.9%. And not in the entire Republic of Croatia. So give some consistency, consistency and let the citizens see, let the citizens see that in 4 years, electricity has accumulated 33% and that now the collection was partly in the area of the Republic of gas 0.9%. And once again, the impression doesn't deceive me, and believe me, concentrate on your own success, not on your own success, but on your own failure. It will help you very much in the election. My honest advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36855	I thank my esteemed colleague, Blazen Boban, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36856	Thank you very much. I'm really touched by your well-intentioned advice that unfortunately I won't be able to use because I'd like you to tell me one of the only successes that's happened in the past six months. What is the success of this government? Is it a success that we've announced that we're going to buy INA not to talk about it anymore? Is it a success for ministers to fall on a conflict of interest every other day? Is it a success to have a plagiarizer in the government? Is it a success to have a minister who took a privileged loan in the government? Is it a success to have a minister in the government who knew about all the data, the fund of Agrokor who had failed in a year since he became a minister? Say, what success, what am I supposed to be envious of? Well, no government had any problems like you did in the first six months and charges. Not a single government. I can't think of any government who's had these charges in the first six months. Even Sanader's government. Even Sanader's. You know his brother, you're there from Solin, hanging out, you know, the family nice, decent. They had Sanader's governments for this government were in that sense transparent and successful and we know how things ended. Explain to me which success? I don't see any success, I'd like to see some success, but I don't see it. And I have nothing to be envious of, I just see problems. Every day, all I see is trouble. I'd like to say something positive here and we can boast of something. But if you think what's happening in Croatia right now is a success, then I'm afraid we'll end badly as a state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36857	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. I would ask you to stick to the topic of debate, not general policy practice. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36858	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that in this debate, that is, there is often a conflict between the HDZ and the SDP in the debates. But the real cause of the gas price purchase is that we sell gas to Italians at 4 times the price of imports from the Russians. So we have a situation that the INA has concluded a harmful contract that brings us enormous damage. In Croatia, we produce 80% of our own gas. The cost of that gas extraction is negligible compared to its price paid by citizens. And what we should do in the Parliament is instead of gnawing against each other to say let's see how we break that harmful contract or how we screw up the Italians. That we should raise them a mining rent so they don't get paid so we can re-fund, or subsidise the price of gas in Croatia, etc. However, such solutions in Croatia, unfortunately, do not exist. It all comes down to politics and bickering, and basically both the government and the HDZ and the SDPs always deliberately raise prices. Even HDZs who, for example, rebelled against gas collection at the time of the SDP. Well, she didn't cut that price now. Because if HDZ was a credible party then they'd say, here we are against the accumulation of gas, now we're going to cut 20%, 30% as much as we already are. However, bad politics, unfortunately, just continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36859	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. I do not understand the replica of which part of the exhibition you have given the replica, but here I have allowed you the replica, and I am glad that this small step for you, and large for the Croatian Parliament you are appealing and calling for the cease-fire that we are no longer engaged in the past of each other. But colleague Gordan Maras is asking for an answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36860	Thank you very much. My colleague Pernar, the problem of gathering is one thing, and he can sometimes be justified. But when you issue a national interest in a way that allows our INA gas, or Hungarians, to sell more expensive now in Italy because that's where half the gas and goes away together with the Italians from the Adriatic, and that's what's going to happen. So we directly on the one hand, Prime Minister Plenkovic says he wants to buy INA, on the other hand it increases their value, i.e. raises revenues and raises the price. It's a completely illogical situation. And more than 28 EU countries still have more than half regulated so that the gas being drawn in the country cannot be sold on the European market. Why, for example, some large countries can use for themselves and resist EU pressure, and we, Prime Minister Plenkovic, the HDZ-MOST government have kneeled and succumbed to the pressure of Hungary, MOL, Brussels and have allowed our gas, cheap gas that is not at least 80%, but almost 60% satisfys the needs of the Croatian market now, let's say, to sell in Italy. And on the other hand, you're right, we're going to import more expensive gas from the outside to make up for that difference. That's illogical. There's some interest in hiding. That should be checked and seen why the government does it. Is that a concession? Prime Minister Plenkovic may have agreed with Orban on the price of INA on this, but that is what has to be said. This should be seen clearly why it is our interest that our wealth is being drawn and earned by someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36861	I thank my dear colleague, Maras, for his reply to the replica. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear fellow professor Bozo Ljubic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36862	I would like to thank Mr. President, my colleagues and fellow MPs. I hope with my debate I don't get out of the topic, but if that's what I'm counting on today's chairman's tolerance. So today I have no intention of talking about the professional aspects of the energy sector in Croatia because it has much more competence than I do. However, on a few examples, I want to actually talk about the repercussion of energy projects in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in neighbouring areas. So one other country, and I'm actually going to try that through two examples. The first example is, therefore, Busko Lake or Busko Mud. So it's a lake located on the territory of the municipalities of Tomislavgrad and Livno in Hercegbosan County in BiH stretching some 56 square kilometers. The volume of water in that lake is about 780 million cubic metres, and thus by capacity it is the largest artificial lake in Europe. So that lake was built in 1970 when it was a joint project and when the base of water from that lake was built the Orlovac hydropower plant with a total, therefore annually, or average annual production of approximately 366 gigawatt hours. And since the water from this hydropower plant is being driven further towards the Djale and Začac hydropower plants, it is therefore production in two more power plants from this lake, Busko Blato. Now, the municipalities of Tomislavgrad and Livno are returnees, i.e. refugee municipalities, and surely municipalities that are financially endangered. The Croatian electricity industry paid about 6 million kuna for the use of this water by 2014. Since 2014, it's about 12 million kunas according to the data that I have. However, when they look at me to say the damages suffered by these two municipalities, by taking up therefore the wave of agricultural land of the former then actually this fee to me, not just for me, but for the people living in those municipalities nowhere near, does not correspond to the real one, therefore, to the damage. And the assessment of the professional institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina including the Croatian community's electricity industry, Herceg Bosnia, is moving somewhere that the real one should be about twice as much as it is now, while the municipalities themselves believe it should be bigger. Why do I say that? So, let no one here be offended, but in the Croatian public there is quite a sensitivity in taxpayers, so on the funds allocated from the Croatian budget for assistance to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They're wrong. So Croatian political bonds need to know where these funds are going and how they are being spent. So it's about 20 to 50 million kunas, or 20 million kunas, through the state office, left over through the ministries. But according to the budget my parents served downstairs, so only the price of electricity produced by the Orlovac hydropower plant according to the average current to say the calculation, the calculation moves at an annual level of approximately 100 million kuna. So it is not my goal here to say, in any way, to tighten the relations of Croats on two sides of the border, but I want to raise a few facts here to the Croatian public. First, Hercegbosan County, where this lake is located, is occupied by 25% of the territory of the Federation of BiH and extends in the belt from Drava to the Municipality of Gruda and Posusje in the Western Herzegovina municipality, so the county that guards the back of Croatia and has kept the backs of Croatia for the war. And now, of course, in the communication of the representatives of the municipalities, the county representatives of the Elektroprivrede Croatian Community of Hercegbosne HEP here Croatia should certainly enter the talks and come up with a fair fee that will allow people in these municipalities and in that county to stay on their hearths because what I have repeatedly spoken in the Assembly, strategic interest and the Republic of Croatia. So, the second issue I want to problem here, which concerns space on both sides of the border, and this is the Neretva Basin in the southern part of BiH and Herzegovina and Croatia, respectively. So it's an area of the Neretva River Basin that stretches to some 10,000 miles [10000 km] square. Sliv was formed in a highly hydrotechnically sensitive space and numerous hydrotechnical procedures within this left have had the consequences of redistribution of water and has led to significant changes in the... system of the Neretva Valley with repercusions in both BiH and Croatia. New procedures planned within the so-called The above horizons and the HE Ombla, which has been spoken of in Croatia for a long time, could have an additional impact on both the economy and the biological ecological values and individual economic branches of the lower Neretva valley, the coastal sea of the Maloston Bay in Croatia. It has already led to significant changes, the salting of the Neretva River upstream to Capljina, which significantly endangers the existence of thousands of people involved in agricultural production in that part and what should be taken into account. At the same time, the Hutovo mud National Park was threatened, so one of the most famous European bird reserves. It seems that the RS institutions have not paid enough attention to the negotiations with BiH institutions that both at the level of the state at the level of the Republika Srpska and the Federation entities, since projects under the Republika Srpska entities are planned to build new power plants in the area. I will only quote here a few items of round table which was held in the organization of the University of Zagreb and HAZU which was organised in 2013, and since I quote I will read it. Therefore, "The point 3rd management and energy use of the Neretva and Trebišnice plums is not systematically coordinated between the HEP and the Elektroprivred Croatian Community of Hercegbosna and Elektroprivreda BiH and the Elektroprivred Republika Srpska, and any electricity industry for optimising its own production capacity and economic benefit is indicated by the need to develop plant regulations and use water components of the hydroenergy system, which would include the needs of all water users on water supply streams, irrigation, flood defence, ecology. The innovation of project solutions, management mechanisms and implementation of the agreed commitments agreed so far by all participants using water in the drain should be carried out. In accordance with the results of the innovation, the measurement system should be set up and the scientific community must participate in its planning and interpretation. Point 4. The importance of preserving the natural values of the entire area, which is also a guarantee for the further sustainable development of agriculture, which is the main source of the existence of the population in Delta Neretva, so Croatia and the BiH area are overly populated, is proposed to form a nature park for the entire Delta Neretva area." So, finally, colleagues and colleagues do not belong to that type of MPs, and the employees we call eco fundamentalists or professional NGOs activists, however, should be aware that investment in energy projects, and often hydroenergy projects are perceived as less risky than fossil fuel or nuclear power plants, and in fact repercussion of the construction of such projects can be far more devastating to the nearby and remote areas in which it is being built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36863	I thank my distinguished colleague Ljubic for this debate in which he informed us about the state of the electricity sector in our second country of the Croatian people. We have several replicas, distinguished colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36864	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Ljubic, you mentioned Busko Blato and our electricity company, which makes very little money out of it according to Liv and Tomislavgrad, which I believe you are right and that part of the world where the Croatian people are mostly to be helped and there is no dilemma. We all know that BiH is the largest export in BiH but I will also mention that Croatia can also take a lot of care about agriculture in Bosnia's Pavina is hundreds of thousands of hectares of Croatian land that are not given any attention, but I also believe that Croatia is very little in favour of the Croats in BiH. And this is what you said well, and I think that it is okay and that Croatia towards BiH, according to the Office for Immigrants, and the particular issue of Bosnian Croats in Posavina where it is most damaged to invest as much money as possible and to help that part of the world come back and rebuild. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36865	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36866	Thank you, fellow Muscle. So of course I could have cited other examples, I focused with... In fact, they're both paradigmtic from their own to say the aspect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, my goal here is to raise awareness of the need for the interaction and cooperation of Croats on the other side of the border to develop evenly and to remain on their hearths. So what you said yourself, I'll just show it through the number. So the RS trade surplus from BiH is moving around 4 billion kuna annually. So I know that the goods sold in BiH are not only bought by Croats. But believe that Croatians are probably also political representatives because I was in that role the most responsible but also as consumers, which is the case. And of course, then it shouldn't really be a question of whether these funds are being allocated to help, scientific, cultural, health or other institutions are justified. What we all need to know together is that this cooperation is a strategic interest, a national strategic interest and then, of course, the strategic interest of the two countries of Croatia and BiH and Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36867	I thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36868	Mr. Ljubic, I've been listening to your presentations and I've been looking in your direction. And then I noticed that yesterday meant during the debate when we talked about the MOST proposal to record the MPs, they spoke of it as if they were for the MPs to come to their jobs. I now see here there are no representatives of the Most, so none of their representatives. And it seemed hypocritical and actually regrettable to me that in public, they appear to be like people who are jealous and who are making minors come and here I see you from HDZ there are plenty now, none of them. Why is it so I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36869	Dear colleague Pernar, I have already told you once, I repeat once again that I am asking you to stick to the subject and do not deal with the policy of general practice, I do not know what you have replicated to Mr Ljubic in his presentation, so there is no need for any response from Mr Ljubic because you have spoken about the principles and have not touched the topic of conversation at all. Do you want to? Here you go, sir. I hope you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36870	So respect for my fellow MP here requires me to get up, so of course I wouldn't want to focus at all on what the honourable representative said but I want to say what I was talking about yesterday. So I'm trying to come from the position of what I'm here for. So I chose on behalf of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and I try to keep as much of these topics as possible, the other things I try not to enter until my self-control so I say helps me stay on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36871	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic, for his reply. I'm going over that next debate. Dear colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. She's gone, yes, that reminds us Mr. Pernar that there's no one at the Most. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36872	Well, here you go, sir, the Honorable Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36873	Mr. Pernar, I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36874	Uh-huh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36875	Please sit down. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar has applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36876	Thank you, Chairman. Well, you said it didn't matter that the MPs in the line of the Most aren't in the House at all, but you see now that it's their turn to speak, when you called out, they're gone, so they don't participate, they're gone, absent. But let's get back to the subject. The key problem we have today in Croatia is the catastrophic energy policy regarding the thermal system. This system by its nature is such that it makes it impossible for individual users to be heat-heated to be excluded from the collective heating system. In other words, the man who lives in the building and wants to shut himself off from the heat system he cannot do it without the consent of all other tenants in particular, which means that it is essentially impossible. In BiH, which we consider a back country, i.e. Let's say the backwards of us, in BiH it's possible. So in BiH you can say I don't want to get warmed up over the heat, I have my own solution, or I won't get warm at all, and people can get out of that heat system without a problem. Why is it impossible for us I don't know. And it's a big problem for a number of reasons. You have a situation, for example. in, so heat services are used maximumly for, say, 4 months a year. And now what's going on? You have to maintain that whole globular system that loses a huge amount of energy to pay for the whole year, the whole year. Which means that heat bills come despite the fact that heat doesn't essentially do what its role is, so it doesn't warm the household, it doesn't give them heat in that sense. And that one strange system I would say leads us to the great cost of that heating. So now, what's going on? By introducing these divisors, nothing has been solved. What's going on is this, when you guys completely shut down the divisor, let's say. make sure that even the heat of the apartment does not receive you will still have to pay at least 50% of the total bill. Why? Because spent heat is just the part in the account. So the bill is much bigger. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out. You, for example, can leave your apartment for a month after winter. You're not in the apartment, you still have to pay for the heating even though there's no need for heating. See, for example, in Vukovar, they heat up needlessly even though they're empty. Why? For one simple reason, because owners can't rule them out from the heat system. This problem is actually due to the fact that the state or regulatory agency does not want to allow individual users to actually choose how they will be heated, i.e. to exclude themselves from the central heating system. Instead, a solution has been introduced which is not, and that solution is this story with those divisions whose installation is mandatory and which is not saved. See how many heating bills in Rijeka are over the heating heat. In Rijeka, people are desperate, and they also want to get off that heat. They're not allowed. They want to get off the heat in Karlovac, they're not allowed. Why? Because behind that heat, there's a lobby. And now what do I remember? I remember when I was in Sisak there was then my colleague Ivan Wilibor Sincic's presidential campaign. We were on a visit to a woman who was being threatened by an act. Why? Because she couldn't pay HEP's heating bills and HEP Heat put her apartment on auction because of the heating debt. And now what's going on? A pensioner who has a pension of 1,500 kuna comes 600 kuna to him, he has no place to pay. And they'd rather rule out that heating service than be decommissioned. However, he was deprived of the possibility of disfellowshipping himself. He's got to warm up even though he doesn't want to. And in the end, if that case hadn't been sent to the press, it would have been likely that the person would have been eventually evicted from the apartment. Unfortunately, we see that both HDZ and SDP in this segment serve the thermal lobby together, namely that governments and ruling parties change, and that politics against this thermal system does not change, remains the same, has continuity. And those who lose most of that policy are citizens, citizens who are deprived of their right to actually choose and thus the state shows that there is actually no freedom in our country. As a consumer, you can't choose whether to heat yourself on electricity these four months a year, if you're going to install an oven on solid fuels or any other alternative source. Or maybe you won't be warm at all and maybe you won't even be in that apartment. It means that people are not allowed to be free by HERA, or HERA. This crucial question this government does not want to resolve and what is surprising is that citizens in the elections support this policy and are not aware that the reason why they are in such a position that they cannot break off from this collective heating system is solely because an interesting thermal lobby has so much power that they actually manage government policy not in the interests of the ultimate consumer, but in the interest of these thermal, heat, in the interest of heat. Is that Energo Rijeka, is that HEP Heat or someone else, third, fifth. We can hear what we can hear here. We can hear everything that's not crucial. But here, Mr. Hera wouldn't talk about the problem, he wouldn't even mention it. You can choose in Croatia which, for example, power distributors you will have, you can choose. You can choose the electricity distributor who will buy the electricity from or from. But how you're gonna warm up, you can't choose that. What kind of freedom is that? It means that consumers in Croatia are actually deprived of the right to choose because the state thinks that what's cheaper for them is not what's better for them, or the state thinks they're stupid, the state doesn't think you're capable of thinking for yourself, the state thinks for you. However, it is obvious that, under quotes, the false concern of the state for consumers is, in fact, not a concern for them, but a concern for large systems that bring losses. And what's even worse than anything even when someone doesn't pay for, say, HEP Heat, doesn't pay their bills, the logic of things would be if HEP Heat saw, okay. Pero Peric doesn't pay for the heating, we'll turn it off from the heating system like we dig up people's phones, electricity, water. So all the other services are being excavated, so the heat is not digging up and the bill continues to be sent to people. And maybe people not only don't pay but they don't want heat, but they don't. It's simply going to charge costs with the ultimate goal of maximising costs for the final users of that energy whether they want it to be or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36877	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36878	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Pernar, you're absolutely right. We literally cheat on these citizens in our country. HERA does not adhere to the law, the European law, if a citizen would cut off an installation in his apartment that he legally bought and he owns that apartment, he must pay for the power all year round to that same group of people who rob these citizens. It's a shame that you can't get the consent of the citizens of the building to cut off the installations from the heating system and you have to re-pay the power to that same gas distributor. You ask him why I pay, when you say get their installations out of your apartment, he says they're not my installations. And I can charge you, not my installations. The second thing, which is even sadder, is that individual courts judge for their benefit, not for the benefit of the citizens. Individuals in favour of citizens and 90% in favour of these same systems. Why HERA doesn't have law, European law, it's not because it's not interested was the interest of individuals and certain groups that use our citizens. You buy an apartment and go away for three years, on your apartment is an executive because you didn't pay for the power in that power where you bought with the heating. You can cut it off, you can throw it out, but you gentlemen will pay for that gentleman who said Serbs, lie down to eat you. We won't work, but we'll get the money. So as long as we're going to rob our citizens in this country, it's a clean robbery of Croatian citizens. If I'm not gonna keep the heat in my apartment, then I don't have to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36879	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36880	Well, fellow Misic, look how much we have a schizophrenic, insane situation in our country. Often the media says Penar's crazy, Pernar's a clown, Pernar's a circusr, etc. I say okay. Here, call me all the names you want. But explain to me the logic behind energy policy in Vukovar, where you have lots of empty apartments all over buildings where no one lives. Some are also state-owned, let's say there's no need for anyone they don't need. And what's going on? Those apartments are heating up. What are they heating up for? They're heating up because their owners can't disconnect from them, they can't detach from the collective heating system. And what's going on? It comes to this because they do not use the service of the citizens or pay for it because they know that they cannot be separated from that service either. And what's finally going on? It happens that a thermal company in Vukovar is going down, and then the state has to take care of its losses. And why is that? Because the state wouldn't let the one over the heat system heat up who wanted it and who wanted to pay for it. And then that price of not paying that heat, eventually carried by the citizens. And they pay it regardless of whether they had divisors and they were zero and they have to pay that heating 365 days a year, as is called Milan Bandic's party, not just four months. And okay. Pernar is crazy because he points to this irregularity, and colleagues from HDZ and SDP are wise and smart who think it's clearly the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36881	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this answer. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36882	Thank you very much. You noticed, Mr. Pernar, that a colleague from MOST is not present at all in the assembly after yesterday's proposal to sanction those who do not work or do not come and that is really illogical. But one illogicality is much bigger which is happening here and basically how much it shows that irrelevant things like this report are being discussed and whether someone is late in the month, two with some rule book, and how any party is going to set themselves up is going to walk like eggs. Here we have now reached the conclusion of the HDZ Representatives' Club that they will not accept but will take note because they are probably afraid of what those in MOST want to refuse to do, so they don't just get mad at them. And that's what we're discussing here in the Croatian Parliament instead of how to help people, how to make their energy prices less than we do relations within the ruling coalition or by formulating the conclusion. And that is important for Croatian citizens to hear as well. It is much more important for HDZ and MOST people to understand the conclusion that they are not angry with each other than whether the price of electricity and gas will be higher or lower. So this is worth more to them than the 20 percent gas collection, whether it's going to be taken to the knowledge or it's going to be refused because MOST wants a change in HERA, and HDZ obviously doesn't know how to tell them it can't, so then they get to know and wait for things to be solved on their own. And that's something our people also need to know. So the government's failure to function even shows this kind of banal situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36883	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36884	Mr. Maras, when I was in Vukovar at the Vanda villa owned by the Josic family, I was surprised that they were heating up the whole facility with very little money. And what's the secret? The secret is that as it goes into the depths of the earth, the temperature with the higher depths rises and says we use geothermal energy. And then what happens? They actually heat up water for their facility without investing energy, it's simply carried out into the depths, in the depths warms up and brings it back to itself and thus the water just warms up. So instead of raising the water temperature by, say, 20 degrees, they only raise 10 and an effective cross-section, say, the heating cost, or the energy used to heat hot water. Such solutions do not use Croatian heat, do not use. We simply live in a system inherited from socialism that is based on coercion, on technology from the last century, and even forces citizens to use it. I don't know how this country thinks to go forward with that kind of thinking. Maybe I'm backwards and maybe you're all smart in HDZ and SDP. Probably, the public thinks that, 90% of the citizens support you. And O.K., let's keep living the way we live, along with the Most reformers who are not there and their reforms don't have an R. Thank you either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36885	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic has applied. ... I'm sorry, but you didn't. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Did you get that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A distinguished colleague colleague, Bozo Ljubic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36886	... My replica was prompted by the body of the debate of counterpart Pernar because in one part of his debate, he contrived BiH as a back country. [[Specially enabled.]] So I'm convinced that he didn't mean anything by it or in any way offend BiH citizens, so I just want to say so as a man who comes from BiH. BiH is a country of beautiful landscapes, BiH is therefore a country of talented people. Two Croatian Nobel laureates came from BiH, one from Travnik Ivo Andric, the other from Sarajevo, Prelog, Vladimir Prelog. So I'm not talking about athletes, musicians, Oscar winners about, etc., etc. However, BiH is an unfinished state. Both BiH and the people of BiH are at least to blame because they were first victims of brutal aggression and then the victim of a state-run arrangement that was made out of BiH. And therefore BiH has problems with many of the things Croatia has solved. And in fact, our role here in the Parliament and mine to say so together with you is to help BiH adopt European standards to join the Community of European countries, i.e. the EU, together with Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36887	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic for his replica. And the answer to my esteemed colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36888	Thank you. Dear fellow Ljubic, I didn't mean the last in any national sense or anything but purely technological, as Croatia is, for example, more backward than Austria. That's what I meant, that's what it means. I'd like to read you something. The potential geothermal energy is huge, there are 50,000 times more than any energy that can be obtained from oil and gas around the world. Geothermal resources are located in a wide range of depths. You have, here's an article on wikipedia that's publicly available information. So geothermal energy is 50,000 times greater than I'd say, greater potential than together oil and gas. However, although it is 50,000 times higher, even though it is essentially free only to make technology to be used. We use these geothermal energies in Croatia 0 or close to 0. There. And the price of this wrong policy is paid by the citizens. And the regulatory agency doesn't do much to change or encourage changes in any way. They only came here as one bureaucrat who says here's the situation, we stand there and that's it. You, for example, in the Finnish Parliament have a committee in parliament with a future, a committee on the future. How are we going to have new technologies? We in Croatia are dealing with committees on the past and these investigative committees that dig things up 60, 70 years old. It's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36889	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. And once again my apology to my esteemed colleague Ljubic because I didn't record for the line. Thank you. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vukasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36890	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear representative of HERA. Here on the one hand, maybe even as a summary, not because I'm the last one, but because I love a comprehensive approach. On the one hand, the report of HERA for 2015 and I would disagree that HERA is only a statisticist and only blindly observes and does nothing but it is evident that there are a whole series of complaints actually on the work of this regulatory agency. And that's where we heard about the representative of the Most, who, unfortunately, isn't in the assembly right now. Not only are they not adopted in time, but also some other complaints that need to be considered and should be seen how justified they are, which they are, which they are not. And on the other hand, we see that in addition to the HERA report there is an open and whole other series, I would say a set of problems in general about the energy sector and these issues are also very legitimate and this problem is also very, very important. And the Energy Development Strategy was mentioned, which was adopted as a document. We heard from a colleague who's in this matter a lot more that he actually is and we're going to coloquial say it wasn't fully implemented in practice because in practice something else came into life. Of course, policies are always partly and responsible. We have five different energy sectors from gas, oil, renewables. And, of course, today would also be given otherwise, the topic of energy is very important and crucial not only because it is important for the state in terms of money but it is both national treasure and each one could be discussed individually, but of course we don't have time. Therefore, I would ask the question as a summary, since the HERA report is itself independent of regulatory agencies in general independent regulatory bodies of course and HERA and this is not an irrelevant issue but is an extremely important issue. We know the state has 92 independent regulators. We can say it's a lot, but we know how those regulators got there. And we know that there are 128 administrations in the ministries, which would be humane to say, so not professional but colloquial dictionaries that jobs are overlapping somewhere. And here's an example. All these independent regulators, so they're founded by law. Sometime since 2000, this has taken place on the EU's recommendations. However, when entering the court register, if we look at these independent regulators, we see that there are really drastic inequalities in their legal forms. When I say drastic inequality, first of all, I mean these legal forms. For example, we have HANFA. In that court register, HANFA is listed as an independent legal person with public authority. On the contrary, we have the Railway Safety Agency and regulation of the railway market which is only an independent and independent institution, while the Croatian Network Agency is an independent and non-profit legal person with public authority. How unprofitable of that, by that. It is listed as non-profit, but as such formally non-profit, it has huge money in practice. And if it is apparent, it may not be now, but for further discussion it will be visible that this notion of independence is actually questionable for several reasons. All agencies and including HERA, so I said somewhere since 2000, some in 2002, third, electronic media I think 2004. So they are all independent of the EU's recommendations, but there was no systematic preparation for theirs, so to speak, in the general order and in the legal order of Croatia. And we still have to talk about it, because we're not talking about consequences without talking about the causes of the problem. And then these agencies are formally separated from the state administration system and so they are now working on the principle that, including that agency, they need to unite three functions regulatory function, executive and judicial function. That's inappropriate. For some agencies, it is not the case with this agency, but some others, it was not even known until the media apostropheeded their addresses in Zagreb. And I'm going to remind you of that case that illustrates the situation with the 2012 agencies regarding HERA when HERA without consultation with the Ministry of Economy, it was the case, but without consulting the Government, to decide on the collection of heating. And that's when I remember, I watched the Assembly session, and it was said that Hera was independent. But there was unanimously accepted one finding in the House here, that independence does not mean that someone is out of the system, or that they can do what they want. And now a legitimate question is raised, so whether the regulator in some decisions can be independent, indeed in full terms of that word if we know what the definition of independence is and behaves like that, and in other situations and in other decisions, it is not actually independent and it is said that the legislation is such that it is not independent. So it's contradictory to me in essence, not just me, but there are some interpretations that are much more directed than me. And the issue of realising the damage done by independent regulators is ultimately one of the issues when we speak comprehensively, then I must mention it. Why? For Article 66 is replaced by the following: The Law on Administrative Disputes, and I know that this law is meterative in the case of this agency, states that the appeal brought against the verdict, does not delay the execution of the contested verdict by the regulatory agency. And now, given the government's trinity to conclude somehow, that is to say, the Legislative Parliament, the executive and the court must be asked a question. It's more than necessary to me, it's really logical and it's important. So by which legal, let alone constitutional basis, there is the possibility to delegate legislative, executive and judicial authorities to independent regulators, which is now in practice. I don't think anyone in this can kill me because it's really facts. And at the end of the day, it would be a good thing to actually have a comprehensive approach again to consider redefining the system of independent regulators, and I said how many? 92 if I'm not mistaken. At least for a few reasons I've listed, and there's even more reason. Because now independent regulators, therefore, exercise both legislative and administrative authority. We can depolmise whether this properly determines the tariffs for their services that users must use. Some will object that independent regulators also determine for themselves the salaries of employees who are more than the salaries of the state administration and that is the question, but in my view it may not be measurable. And one of the questions that I've raised is certainly whether it's appropriate that the only protection against the initiation of administrative disputes, that the only protection is actually the launch of administrative disputes and we've heard how it ends. I think that, to recapitulate, in general, the redefining of this system of independent regulators that we have actually introduced to the EU's incentives without the general preparation. It certainly takes some reasonable time, but here's my personal opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36891	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin-Vukasanovic for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36892	Thank you very much. Comrade Irene, in your debate, you mentioned the role of regulators and I absolutely agree with you that certain regulators would not say abuse but use the position of independence and perhaps in certain situations behave in breach of the situation that is in Croatia. We've had a lot of debates here and around the CNB and about other HACOM regulatory agencies means nonstop problems, wages, spaces, inadequacy of use of funds, audits, not audits, and that's the fact and one problem that needs to be solved, but the fact is that independence also results from people being able to work across the entire segment on their own. So you can't if someone regulator is supposed to be independent of both the state and the market operators it regulates, then you can't press it year after year and reduce it because it's not independent, then the state can solve it. So it might not be bad to make a special law that will regulate these general conditions of action within regulatory agencies as regards salaries, as we have salaries about employees to make salaries that would include classes within these agencies, so that we don't have a situation such as in the CNB where people have salaries twice as much as ministers in government sometimes, not to say the costs that they would say out of each control, and then we investigate how much they traveled and how they were, where they were all, etc. Here we read about the Deposit Insurance Agency, the lady was on a trip to exotic countries for which no man can even understand why she traveled there. It means building a certain regulatory mechanism, but still not jeopardising the independence of those agencies or institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36893	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. Reply Dear colleague Irena Petrijevcanin-Vukasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36894	I agree just so it doesn't get misunderstood. I am certainly not for any elimination of independence but for equalization, but not in the sense that everything is leveled, so they are all equal, because they can't all be equal, but when they say complete independence then it's really complete independence, not that there's a non-profit organisation with public powers somewhere, and that it's making enormous incomes and that it's independent in those decisions that suit it and its leaders, and those where it doesn't fit are hiding there under a political cabana and it says we're not independent, of course not directly but indirectly. I'm not for a one-dimensional approach, but I'm about to introduce order, and of course there's a chronic lack of order because a lot of things have been done ad hoc and suddenly and overnight, so we're actually suffering now all the consequences of these causes to say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36895	I thank my esteemed colleague, Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic, for his reply. Mr Tomislav Jurekovic appeared on behalf of the applicant for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36896	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, since this has been a long day, I'm gonna try not to be too long. There are a whole series of questions that have been asked over these few hours, and I think it's practically impossible for all of them to answer. I'm going to try some kind of recapitulation of this all on my own, but maybe just the respected lady MPs who was last in some way is a natural path from where to go. And although I'm a little surprised by the number, I'm not sure it's the number of regulators, maybe it's the number of agencies, but I don't think there can be that many. Namely, according to how I am only an engineering engineer, but as I am interpreted by lawyers, the indigenous regulators of those who are instilled in and in European law, and also translated into Croatian law, there are fewer than ten of whom around four are interpreted by the right regulators, but I would really like to allow it to be the subject of the debate, and I would like to call on the discussions on such matters in any case and not just the parliamentary representatives but also the involved agencies. We as the Energy Regulatory Agency are listed in the European Directive in part of the third package in the respective positions and in the area of the internal market for gas and electricity, and there are the basic projections of what kind of energy regulation body must have each EU country, which are its obligations and which are its rights. Thus, independence as an absolute assumption and the purpose of the existence of such organisms on the other side of the scale has the accountability of the system in which the accounts are held and to which the accounts are held. In principle, these are state parliaments. So independence is from market participants and executive authorities, and it is responsible for parliament, parliamentary committees and the general parliamentary organisation. We do not have the legislative authority if the adoption of certain documents with sublegal power such as methodologies is not interpreted by legislative force. We don't even have judicial power. We have the right to propose misdemeanor procedures, but that is as far as we go, so in some of the corrections of the law we would even have to comply with European regulations and we would have to have a stronger regulation. We have a certain framework in terms of punishment. However, regulation in energy, and perhaps all regulations are halfway between technique, science and art. This means that primarily a healthy mind and some sense of what it is implemented conducting our management. Indeed, there are clauses in Croatian legislation that give the regulator, for example, the right to consider that if a specific energy entity, for example, threatens independence, obstructs the change of suppliers, does not give the plan in time, to reduce the penalty of 10% of the annual income. Imagine that an independent regulator punishes a large player on the Croatian market with 10% of the annual income and pushes him to red. So dialogue, patience and reason that sometimes require an enormous number of contacts, meetings, times, and sometimes delays are a basic tool. The tool is also to condition certain consents to make these documents feasible, to be usable and to be able to do something about it later. That's part of the answer to those 27 years. We live in an environment, in an energy where the paradigm has completely changed since 2013. So it's an unprecedented change. So many new rules have been introduced into this dam. At the same time, it is trying to clean up old sins, comply with current regulations and the European environment is changing at such a pace that it is only to catch and let alone incorporate in Croatian rules quite a challenge. Therefore, this is certainly a topic of what the future of the regulatory bodies should look like. As I do every time, it seems to me that this is the fourth time I address the Parliament, I call on the Parliament and I call on the parliamentary committees to create the possibility of dialogue, or that we are open to the interests and beyond this annual report. There is a right written in the law by the Parliament and some other bodies to ask any question or any topic for any forum or way of dialogue during the year. It is too late and awkward to have a once-a-year chance to have a dialogue between the regulator and the body to which he is responsible. So I'm saying I'm really pleading that maybe there are ways to make this dialogue look better. Maybe our annual report in front of you isn't the happiest. It is a product of a certain genealogy but over time too many kidneys in some numerical sense and may be insufficient in terms of some instructions, suggestions, suggestions or warnings. I would also like to say in that sense that even in this report I think there are 20 places of direct warning. We really warn, we write as regulator, we participate in public debates, we warn of certain things, that's all we need to read. So I could, and if any of the parliamentary representatives were interested in the gene of our warnings about certain problems that we have heard about here today, for example, renewable sources, pressure on the price of electricity I will gladly send you and copies and warn you of the dates when it happened. It's the only thing to read, it's not even simple matter, and it's also asking for a time that's usually squeezed for decision makers. Dear Representative Bulj has asked a series of questions that I cannot but answer in writing because it would take about half an hour and I don't think any of you have that kind of patience anymore. I asked and there's an email answer, so I'm going to give myself that freedom, given that I've been asked questions and delivered to all the MPs in their boxes to send answers to these questions. The answer in common is mostly, in 80%, this is not true. In 20% we can talk, but I suggest that I give an answer in the form of some kind of letter where I quote the question answer, question answer. About some sponsorship of the company on active activation for the installation of the divisors I must again at the end of these four hours conclude that I am not able to explain again what the regulator can or cannot do. He keeps saying the regulator has failed to prevent it. The regulator can't stop it. The regulator may participate in the law-making process. Finally, the law was passed. We don't often read it in the People's Newspaper. After that, we should try to carry him out in the parts that apply to us. We're not the ones who won't let you shut down. We're the ones who eventually respond to a complaint or a lawsuit from one of the, uh, complaints from one of the users of the heat system. But we're interpreting the regulation that someone else brought us. Exclusion from the thermal energy system is probably a topic that I may be answering in the Croatian Parliament for the 3rd time already. Individual heating, individual systems are not the same as common systems. When you buy an apartment in a building that has 20 residential units, you buy it and a system for energy, energy supply. You buy the heating, it's not the same if you buy a flat, gas heating in your apartment and you buy a common boiler room. This joint boiler room also has common costs. And if someone were completely independent of him with all the motives that are understandable to everyone, then the other 19 would have to pay more and more and more until there were two left in the end. Who would pay for the whole building. Heat is a story to itself. It also deserves if one dialogue with the regulator is needed but again not because we are decision-makers. The law was passed by someone else, implementing acts. I'll tell you what the regulator regulates in heat. For large heat systems, production tariff and distribution tariff. That's all. Everything else is just our attempt to explain, interpret and help the Croatian legal framework in the context of customer protection. Those aren't our decisions. But as a regulator we answer every letter, we respond to every text that our lawyers clean and our experts clean. So we're not the ones making the laws, we're making some implementing acts, we're setting tariffs where it's regulated and we're trying to promote the market. I will only allow myself and thank the honourable lady's representatives for a few very specific questions concerning the context of the licensing of traders in the field of electricity. I really understand that the system may be to some extent anacron, however, when the system was established for domestic market participants, licences. And I also allow 50% of Europe's license as such does not exist. However, the basic idea of the licence, the basic license of the energy license, was to create some kind of minimum set of rules that a future player, a market participant who could basically do because of the serious money in the market hypothetically bring some kind of riot to a speculative arrival. You come, you take 100 customers, you make debts and you disappear. It was an effort at the time when the permit rules were written to create minimal assumptions that you had serious players on the market because it was afraid that they might be different. I agree that's mature thinking. As regards relations with European market participants, not only the European Commission but also the EFET, or the European Energy Trade Organisation has put a lot of pressure on Croatia. There were also serious objections from Brussels that we were actually obstructing the market by putting people in an unfavourable position, but it was a combination of our licensing rules and our ZTD that requires permanent residence. So one part of it was trying to really end and allow me to build my home licenses if there are or domicile registrations such traders can also work in Croatia. Today, as a regulator, we are asking our partner regulators in another EU country to confirm how such a trader is registered with them. And if they confirm that they recognize him as such, whether it's through permission or registration in a court of law or in a third way, we are accepting him as one who can participate in our market. But I repeat, I allow there to be a need to think about it. There is one general tendency to reduce the number of steps needed to get to the right to perform certain activities we will probably go that way too. As for the co-ordination or incoordination of the move between the CAPS, HERA and HROT, it is a very often conflicting move, and I would not say that one is necessarily blocking the other but each one is independent. For example, from renewable sources, HOPS comes early because it allows connection to the transport network. We are before and after this and when we give final consent to HROT makes a decision whether to sign a contract or not depending on whether there is room in quotas. So allow me, we're going to look at another logic that can be simplified. But I wouldn't say we're playing the role of some supervisor. What happens, unfortunately, and that's once again one, maybe the result of a lack of understanding of the role of regulators is that our subjects, so maybe there are these two appointed ones, have one collective underage syndrome. They'd all be very happy to have HERA give them an order when they can and when they can't. So making a decision in this sense is a little reserved not because it's justified, but because everyone likes it that way. And as a regulator, we have this kind of central role, so if everyone loves us equally, that we're probably doing the best we can in a given situation, or we're certainly not malicious. There are many more questions and I probably won't deserve it, but with all due respect to the problem, I must say that if City gasman Zagreb goes lower with the price she can do so in the supply component. She must charge for the distribution of what she is, she must charge for the other regulated components. But supply is price cap. So supply is the maximum price and they can really go below it. However, it is something that will finance from some third sources or feel it on its score. As for the general debate on domestic gas, foreign gas. It's really something that the regulator can't judge. It's every country's right to determine its mix. But we need to know that somewhere in the root of this problem that we had around the new year was also a very serious violation of European law in terms of obstruction of free circulation of goods, which means that someone who is a market participant in Croatia has the right to sell their goods anywhere. So national strategies have to be very smart and very thoughtful to find an optimum for what we call domestics. But basically free traffic of goods is a priority rule so it's hard to talk about such things. It's a matter of national strategy. And I'm finally saying I'm going to try to answer Mr. Bull these sentences, and I'm going to take the liberty of sending it to all of you by mail. I don't know how much I've been able to comment on the heat problem. Indeed, analogies between electricity and gas and heat need to be very careful... I must say that I am a little insecure here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I don't know exactly what this is about, but I don't think there's a European law that would guarantee the right to separate from the common system in which those who stayed in that system must bear most of the costs. But please, that's something we can discuss. We're really open to something like that. And with my last sentence, I apologize to all those who have asked questions I haven't answered yet, but I will try to try in writing. So, I would just like to plead at the Croatian Parliament as the body to which we really account, to allow us to maintain our original position. For as it was said, “let us destroy Dubrovnik, and we will build it even older. ” Destroying regulators to make the regulator independent is suppressing the very meaning of the position of independence. It's up to you to assess whether this way of improving for which we are naturally continuously open makes sense. But I urge you to confirm the position of an independent regulator as such because it is essentially the concept we adopted, a European concept with a market in the middle. Only an independent regulator can act that way. I thank you and really call for anyone to come forward who wants to talk or to propose a form of dialogue between Parliament and the regulatory agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36897	I thank the esteemed Mr. Jurekovic for this debate. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36898	Thank you very much. So here's how you ended up being maybe and there's a part of the problem, because when we look at your report you're now saying read, keep me informed of the nonstop advertising, etc. It's not a problem that maybe we sometimes see something that you say you monitor or publish, the problem is that they don't even see it as citizens. Because how else do you explain that the whole year on the market that you regulate involves hundreds of thousands of users, only 100, 150 or 250 people, it seems to me that I've seen in two sectors about 50 complaints, asked questions, complaints, and somewhere 170 means about 200 between 200 and 300 all year round, so that's nothing. On the one hand, one might conclude that everything is so perfect that people do not object at all or another conclusion that they are not aware of the possibility of turning to you and that you are not in that way visible. So don't warn the MPs here now that they don't see you because you have a much bigger sample of people who don't see you, and that's all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Because if there are 200 objections to your action, for example the divisions. There have been many debates over this, complaints in the Croatian public, and you have heard 16 people a year. So I would expect hundreds of questions, complaints, requests for intervention, that means that you, too, and that there is a mistake in HERA as to the visibility and availability of Croatian citizens. So don't all the MPs don't want them to read. Apparently, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia don't see it very well either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36899	I'm sorry, I would never doctor the Croatian Parliament, it's not even addressed to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36900	Wait a minute, Mr. Jurekovic, wait a minute. I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for the replica. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Jurekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36901	I must have got it wrong. So, my discreet hope is a decent objection was made to decision-makers, primarily I mean executive authorities. To those ministries that pass laws and whose processes we and we give some of our own advice, some of our own instructions or warnings. In any case towards the Croatian Parliament, although I am sorry again, and if you remember when we were on the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection and then I called, I really think there is room for the creation of a forum, perhaps between the parliamentary committee that such issues are more often discussed according to your list of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36902	I thank you for your response to Mr. Jurekovic. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36903	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Jurekovic. I listened very closely to you, so you said at one point it wasn't simple matter and why. It's clear to me that it's not simple matter when our most famous mathematicians can't calculate the price of some kind of heating of an apartment, they tried it so they couldn't. Then the question is why do people rule out... They don't rule out because it's cheap, it's certainly 30 apartments cheaper than five, but prices are enormously high. If I let any privateer run that thing and had a private company, I believe that over 50% of the heat would be cheaper. In our country, however, there is no European law. Well, people are deliberately excluded from it, because they can't pay the bills that are coming, and let's not say the bills come all year, and when it's summer and autumn, when it doesn't have to be heated. How to help the citizens, that's the question. Well, we're right here in this House to help citizens live cheaper. No, I was saying earlier, you're gonna help them when you take the money out of their pockets when everyone lives more comfortable than those people who work, who pay, so eventually if you buy an apartment, if you buy a business space. It's your property. Well, then he says you're from a system, so then that price they charge for power is 30% of Mr. Jurekovic's account, 30% of the bill, and the man doesn't warm up is not there at all, and his property. But gentlemen regularly send bills and block you and eventually lie on your property. It's nice to say it's complicated, yes, it is complicated when we say that a builder knows physics better than he just can't pass it on to paper, and he's very simple to do the house or build a building, but it's a problem to bring and make laws to be very simple and tailored to citizens, because they're illiterate most That's what you should do and try to do the citizens a favor. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36904	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. I'd like to ask you to watch your time. There's no answer. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36905	Dear Mr. Jurekovic, I thank you for looking back and describing as concrete proposals that I have made, that is, everything we find in the field, or users of HERA. I am glad that you have understood the importance that although we need to protect customers we have set some conditions for us to come into a situation where other companies that have the right to operate on the Croatian market do not have to meet these conditions, but please also consider these conditions or requirements for three-year development plans. Whether to change the shape, whether to shorten their time at which they are brought and these property issues, means evidence is owned over space, lease, I believe that these are technical things that happened in communication with offices, tent workers or the like, but it is important not to make double requests to potential users or those who trade in electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36906	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dragica Roscic, on the line. The next call came a distinguished colleague Irena Petrijevcanin-Vukasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36907	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Jurekovic. I was encouraged by your line, don't destroy the regulator in order to be independent, approximately. And you referred to the metaphor to go down Dubrovnik to be even older. In the wrong way, I must react to these last words of mine. Not at all, not at all. But how much the agency is dealing with, in general, the topic of energy or energy issues. So they add each other to the staff, you said so yourself. I am logically guided by the idea of better efficiency, and some examples say that it is not bad to consider and consider redefining functions and jobs. And the people say a lot of grandmothers are a squishy child. And you can't serve rhymes to masters, can you? So it was intensity. Just one more thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36908	I thank my esteemed colleague. And the answer to Mr. Jurekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36909	I'm thanking you. I really didn't experience it that way. This has been my pledoies to the entire assembly. And I understand what you're suggesting. That rationality has, it makes sense, and maybe my comment came from maybe wanting some events, some atmospheres and some situations that are already going on for over a year to sort of calm down, come to someone, so, yeah, another additional capacity comes back and this problem that we're dealing with basically every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36910	I thank the esteemed Mr. Jurekovic for his reply to the replica. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. I thank the applicant, Mr Tomislav Jurekovic, for the explanation of this report. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36911	The next item is the report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015. The applicant is the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that the majority of votes 76 against, 3 abstentions and 33 for not having reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The HDZ representative club proposed the following conclusion: The report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015. I am putting the table to the vote. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that the majority of votes are 70 for, 6 abstentions and 29 against the conclusion proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36912	I'm moving on to the next item of the agenda that was announced this morning that we're going to finish with it today and that's: - Proposal for a law amending the law on value added tax, first reading, P.Z. No. 32; Proposer shall be the SDP Representatives Club pursuant to Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The debate on this legislative proposal will take place under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the committees responsible for legislation, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. I ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation. Dear colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'd like to point out one fact about this bill. So it's about one minimum, one change which is essentially a question of whether it would require a full legal procedure. However, the fact is that we tried to refer this amendment as an amendment during the process of amending the Value Added Tax Act that we did at the end of the last year. However, despite the fact that this is really one marginal proposal that cannot in any way affect budget resources and a whole series of people working in this business would make life easier, while ruling did not accept it. We fear that it is also a day of some attitude as it will be about this law, but it does not change things and it does not change our obligation to explain the law and try to ask one more of you to support us in this proposal that I will once again not create any commitments for the budget of the Republic of Croatia and make life easier for people involved in this business. So let's go. According to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, about 5,000 preschool children remain on the waiting lists each year. So we're talking about those who stay on waiting lists. When we look at data from people who are not covered by preschool education systems, we get 70 percent of children from the target age group. There is no room in the mangers, so in practice accommodation is achieved only for the minimum income of children of 10 and 11 months and only when there are material and spatial conditions for it. Less places like you know, as we all know, don't have kindergartens. Because of their poor fiscal capacity, they have neither the possibility nor the construction of kindergartens, the maintenance of their cold drive nor the financing of those kindergartens that would be founded by another founder. As a result, in 2012, the adoption of the Law on Nannys was joined to regulate the activities of the nanny in order to prevent it from being carried out on black as before. We have ensured by this law that those who have been dealing with this for years, that according to the system intended for craftsmen, they can pay taxes and contribute, which means that they have the right to retire at age. What's this about? It's very simple. Something that was in the field of the gray economy and which is subject to an objective need in the state, we have legally ensured that it can be treated legally, that persons who do business, or who pay for that activity, have some kind of social security, have health insurance, have their own protection in retirement. We've also prescribed the terms and conditions that nannies can have six or twelve children at their care. As far as we know when we were preparing the text of the law on the job of the nanny, 50 people were involved while about a hundred more persons were in the process of education and obtaining work permits. The law on crafts was the modality through which we wanted to regulate this. We know that most of these people doing the nanny job don't cross the line to get into VAT. That's another important fact. So a very small number of those who do the nanny's job enters the VAT system. However, that is precisely what it says in support of the fact that those entering the VAT system should be freed from it. So this government, or this ruling majority, swears to demographic restoration. I can say with almost complete certainty that this law cannot in itself contribute to demographic restoration or encourage citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have more children. However, this law is one of those little stones that we agree on with a picture of all those measures that should make life easier for our citizens and citizens. And precisely because we have a situation where one measure can make life easier for one number of people, that this measure objectively does not generate great costs for the Croatian budget, we of the SDP really do not see why one small change would not be incorporated into the Law on Value Added Tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36914	I would like to thank the applicant's representative for this additional explanation. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Before that, the replica of the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36915	Mr. Grbin, this proposal, as you said in your presentation, goes in favor of people who do this work. So, you mentioned a hundred registered in the Republic of Croatia, and this market is certainly much bigger and this law would help black people in a part of business that is unfortunately not regulated and not registered to be encouraged in some way and to apply and have simpler and cheaper business. And that's what's important, and that's how they'd make it possible for people to work legally without fear, without thinking about whether or not they'd be reported anywhere. And when it comes to the possibility of working with more children, then it could be here, like you said, six kids, and there could be a decent salary for one responsible job. And I said, unfortunately in Croatia, a lot of people do this job on the other side of the legal business, which is how money is usually said in our hands. And this would allow people, I'd say, to be simpler, to be able to do the job they're doing anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36916	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for the replica. We're moving on to debates. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Representatives Club, the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party for the debate has applied for the esteemed colleague Bernarda Topolko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36917	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Right from the start, I'm gonna say that the HNS club, HSU, will support this bill. It will support it for a basic reason, which is that we take away this VAT from children if it is not accepted. The VAT wanted it or didn't want it, if this bill isn't accepted, the nanny will have to pay. Do you think they'll pay him normally from the money his parents paid for the kids? So, the kids will get less in kindergarten. If they raise nanny prices to parents, children will get less at home again. We've heard there's enough nannies registered and there's more to be done in black. There are enough municipalities in our republic that don't have kindergartens. There are enough of those who have, but kindergartens work one shift. Little where you'll find a kindergarten that works in the afternoon, until 20.00, 21.00 or 22.00 hours. It's usually till 5:00. Fortunately, we still have parents working afternoon shifts. So they have to find someone else who can raise a kid in kindergarten, who can take care of him while the nanny works till 9:00. So the kid has a chance in the morning to be with his parents, he's taken care of this afternoon. We are aware of the poor demographic situation in the Republic of Croatia. Last year, the children were only 36372, and the 52034 died. Very bad. This would still be a small contribution to the nanny and not only to them, but also to the children to free the VAT, to reduce the work on the black nanny. We know that nannies can have twelve children. In 2013, both the law and the regulation were passed. Few municipalities will co-finance where kindergartens exist two-way, co-finance the stay of children in kindergarten because it is not a practice, unless children are special needs then co-financed. If it is in the municipality kindergarten is not co-financed. So grandma's services are working and how they get here. In any case, we believe that this bill is good, that children will get something more, and if basic school education is free, without VAT. And if the kindergartens are VAT-free, we think the nanny should also release VAT payments. I'll point out once again that club HNS, HSU, will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36918	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardi Topolko for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36919	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you said if we didn't support this law, we would take the money away from the children. And since you yourself have stated that the maximum number of children is 12 and when we look at this amount to which the babysitters are not VAT bonds, the thing is that we are about to enable their services to be as large as possible, and when we look at the actual cost, it is not more than the total amount of 12 children to which they are released from VAT. So we're about to encourage prices to rise unfairly to the harm of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36920	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dragica Roscic, on the line. The answer to Bernarda Topolko's esteemed colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36921	Dear colleagues. If the nanny has 12 children, the price of the nanny or the accommodation of children in the nanny is 2,200 kuna. That's 26,400 kuna a month, 12 months a year, 316,800 kuna. Your VAT is about 79,000. So out of that 79,000, they're still going to be taking the kids. I'm saying, whether from the parent's pocket directly, you from the nanny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36922	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardi Topolko for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, distinguished colleague Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36923	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, above all, it should be pointed out that this topic that we have already discussed in the context of two readings in the tax reform package, mainly in the law on value added tax. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of Article 39(1) of the Act on Value Added Taxation, it is prescribed that VAT payments are exempt from services and supplies of goods related to the protection of children and young people carried out by institutions, bodies with public authority or other persons of a similar nature. It is also important here to stress that that article is fully in line with point (h) of Article 132 of Council Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax, which reads ‘Member States are obliged to exclude the following transactions, under the point of delivery of services and goods closely linked to the protection of children and young persons by public rights entities or other organisations recognised by the Member State concerned as social welfare organisations’. It is good to repeat how those exemptions from value added tax are made if the delivery or service related to the protection of children and young people are provided by other persons who have not been transferred to public authority, provided that they do not seek to obtain profits, and if the profit is nevertheless realised not to be distributed but used to continue or improve the provision of services, and as it stands in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this proposal. At the same time, according to a special regulation governing the activities of the nanny, the Nanny Act, which entered into force in March 2013, the nanny may carry out his/her activity exclusively in the context of the crafts, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 2(1). The law of craftsmanship. The trade is an independent and permanent exercise of authorised economic activities by natural persons with a purpose of achieving income or profit obtained by production, transport or provision of services on the market. In the light of the above, and having regard to the fact that the activity of the craft is carried out with a purpose of achieving income or profit, this proposed VAT exemption referred to in point (b) of Article 39(1) of the VAT Act cannot apply to child and youth protection services carried out in the framework of the trade. Since the trade is established for the purpose of obtaining or earning income, it cannot be considered as other persons to whom public powers have not been conferred. It should also be recalled that the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act, which was adopted in this High House, requires that the threshold for entry into the register of VAT obligors be increased to 300 thousand kuna, instead of the current 230 thousand kuna. The increase of the threshold for registration in the VAT bond register to 300 thousand kuna is at a monthly level of 25 thousand kuna. In view of the fact that the maximum number of children who can be kept in one place is 12 children, this is maximum for the child in case of 2.083 kuna. Therefore, taking into account these numerical indicators, it can be said that almost all nanny service providers carried out in accordance with specific regulations will not enter the VAT system on this basis. Following the above, the Council Directive and the current law, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the proposed law amending the VAT law of the SDP Representatives' Club, will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36924	I thank my esteemed colleague Marijana Balic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36925	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Balic. This is where you put your maths about VAT for fosterers or nannies to be said, I expected, and this was and I have to say, it's already been two months, I expected this to come into the hands of the president of the SDP club, which I usually appreciate as a great mathematician and an even better combinationist, I expected to say so wait for the people here in mathematics something doesn't seem to be right. This law cannot really be blasphemed in this way or we can change some other number of participants of children in one person because according to this mathematics as you have stated that the maximum number of craftsmen, the nanny, has a maximum number of 12 children each parent of that child should monthly pay 2083 kuna, 2083 kuna. Today nowhere, I checked, nowhere in the Republic of Croatia you have no kindergarten or private kindergarten that charges childcare 2083 kuna. Nowhere, not one, you don't have a kindergarten. So math just can't stand and doesn't lie. So the proposer in his report here said there's over 100. It's true, there's no such thing as 23 registered nannies. So you don't have to comment on the wrong numbers, 23 registered nannies. And that way neither one of them, also checked out, has more than 300 thousand kuna per year income, which means that nobody, literally none of this applies to anyone, but I'm surprised at a really great mathematician, the club president, that he didn't register it himself and the lewdness of this pulled out of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36926	I thank my esteemed colleague, Blessed Boban, for this replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36927	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I really agree with everything you said in the debate and about what my colleague Boban said about the mathematical indicators themselves regarding the calculation of the total amount that the nanny would achieve on the basis of the maximum number of children. However, what I still have to point out, by accepting this proposal, we would actually question the right to equality of all under the same conditions. So the nannies are craftsmen, all crafts pay VAT. So I think that this is the kind of proposal that puts all other craftsmen in an unequal position and even playgrounds for children who also meet the conditions of VAT even though they guard children. So I don't think there's any reason we could possibly accept a proposal like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36928	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36929	Thank you very much. Comrade Balic, in your debate, you have argued certain things that were supposed to show that then this law is essentially unnecessary because it includes everything but when you look on the other side there is no reason not to accept it. So there's no reason not to accept it because sometimes the message is important. The message is important that that's exactly what we want to do, that we want to turn to demographics, that we want to turn around to stimulate people to deal with it legally. You don't always have to look at numbers and what's at this point. Because if people had looked at this approach as Mr. Boban says many professions would not have evolved at all, for many professions there would be no market at all. But until you open it, until you send a message, sometimes people don't even know what and what way and how easy they can deal with it. And that's why this law is important. Maybe it doesn't matter because of these 23 or 100 or 150, but maybe those thousands who are dealing in black at the moment. And that's why it would be good to accept it because it's not kindergarten and it's not just a kindergarten job. Gardens usually work from 8 to 17, or 7 to 17 o'clock. These women can work out of daycare, in the later hours when they're probably worth something more, so then Mr. Boban wouldn't be throwing himself around in math like this that wouldn't hold water. Because a kindergarten that works Saturdays at 8, 9, 10, 11 wouldn't cost 1,000, 1200 kuna, which Mr. Boban probably doesn't know because it's long in the public administration that Sundays pay more expensive hours than they pay on ordinary days. So you have to consider everything and not this quickly catch something and think I scored and you basically fucked everything up. I don't mean you. I mean Mr. Boban. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36930	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. I hope he's replicated his esteemed colleague, Marijana Balic, not Mr. Boban. So here's the answer, dear colleague Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36931	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, dear colleague Maras, for the tail. I can only repeat what I have already stated that this proposal is absolutely consistent with the Council Directive. And on that trail, I am also convinced that the proposal for a conclusion addressed to the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, which is in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider this proposal and that it will change in the framework of the Nanny Act and not within the VAT Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36932	Thank you. Since fellow Boban does not have the right to respond to the replica, the next replica is the esteemed colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36933	Mr. Vice President, it's hard to stay cold on these commendations of Mr. Boban, so I'm going to step out of the business frameworks and thank him even though I'm not replicating him, but my colleague Balic. And to say that I disagree with my colleague Maras that Mr. Boban said everything wrong because he correctly recognized the quality of the SDP president in some. Okay. So, now I'm gonna have to agree with you a little bit. So we're in a logical dilemma. So usually opposition demands are not accepted because the opposition proposes something that costs too much and the government has no money for it, which is what we did when we were government. And now the reason why you don't accept the proposal is because it costs a little money and it won't apply to anyone soon, and then we won't accept it. So that's where I would actually counter argument exactly because of a message that something deserves a special status, it can be accepted, in a second reading to fix what you think needs to be fixed. And as for the proposal for a conclusion that you mentioned us as a proponent, we will consider it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36934	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bauku, for the replica. Thank you very much. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36935	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. When we talk about the proposal for this law very briefly, it is important to say a few things. So, the fact that we have a market in Croatia unfortunately exists, but 99% is unregistered in business. So you're doing what's said in black. And any proposal that will help to regulate this market, that people work legally should be supported especially if they do not cost anything, especially if it sends one quality message and we swear to demographics, we swear that something should be done in Croatia. We can see that the president also took a demographic counselor, that they're promising newborns a great deal. Unfortunately, they never come true after a promise or for a third child, etc. So you should always consider that not everything is what it is right now and what it seems to be right now. Sometimes it should be the one looking into the future. So mathematicians are mostly on technique, not creativity and vision. So they have each other once and then they score. Of course mathematics as an exact science defines it that way sometimes. But this law and this proposal are going towards creating and enabling people and opening up some new things that have not, unfortunately, worked in the way they were meant to be in the Republic of Croatia so far. I was, for example, a minister when it was defined by a law that defined both the activity and the craft and we raised it to 230 thousand kuna. Now it's raised to 300,000 kunas for not entering the VAT system and it's all good and we support it all. But we have to say that we especially need to stress this activity and allow people to do certain things that are related to not this classical working time, but at a time when these services are more expensive. Perhaps additional services so that they can continue to engage in certain education. So this market can be developed, and it exists and it needs the Republic of Croatia. And I agree with Mrs. Jelkovac that this expands the activity to other things, not to be limited, but to try to define the childcare activity that involves then and all of this and just before said and the playrooms and educations, etc. and everything that can be tied to it. So that suggestion if the conclusion is such that it tries to regulate some other law we can accept and see if it is possible, but not the priors to refuse because of something that may not be necessary at this time or not see the need. I'm sure there's a need, but it's hidden, or it's not registered. And on that side, it would be good here if the law were to be supported and we would try to arrange this area together and, in some ways, send a positive message to all those who want to do this work in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36936	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36937	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I really want to replicate to you now, not to my colleagues, Bauku, because what I'm about to replicate to you he knows very well. We come from the same area. You were talking about demographic restoration. I can't laugh now because it's really a sad picture about Croatian demographic restoration. However, there are a number of segments that can improve demographic restoration. First of all, it's not true that there are no kindergartens working in two shifts. There is. I'll tell you, your colleague Bauk knows very well that he does. And for a number of other measures, and there are 17 of them. As for demographic renewal, so here's who's interested in how at local level demographic renewal works and not to pass such laws that don't apply to anyone and that do in some way farce from the bill that can't be known by the VAT Act itself, but rather, the Nanny Act as it was concluded on the board, where we are ultimately all members of the board and members of the SDP in that committee were in agreement. There are ways to bring demographic restoration at a local level to a higher level. If you don't know, or some of your colleagues who are acting on the duty of local communities here, please come in, we are prepared to help us with the benefits of the entire Republic of Croatia. And for six years now, you've known that I come from the middle which is the youngest city in the Republic of Croatia and demographic reconstruction is at that level where it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36938	I thank my esteemed colleague, Blazen Boban, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36939	Thank you very much. As far as your environment is concerned, part of the reason lies because Split is expanding, because there is no more capacity to build buildings, so young families spread to the situation in Solin. But what I was about to say, I don't know what your experiences are and how old your children are. My kids are small. One goes, the boy goes to first grade, and the daughter goes to her last year of kindergarten. I honestly in Zagreb took them six years to kindergarten I didn't hear kindergartens work at 8.9 p.m. No kindergarten anywhere, so I don't know what data you have. But I don't know that as a parent in Zagreb. Or it's an exception. I didn't ask, nor did I search, but my kindergarten certainly doesn't work after five o'clock, and when I come at five o'clock to pick up kids, it's not because it's holidays, so my mom keeps my kids at home, thanks mom, so I'm one of the last ones, so at five o'clock more kids are almost out of kindergarten, so I don't know what kindergartens you were talking about. If that's what Solin has to do up to 10, 11, 12 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday, then it's really an exception. So it doesn't work that way in Zagreb and it doesn't exist. And these ladies or men who do this job could do it at that time when it's not the price we talked about earlier. And what I wanted to point out once again is a message to do something about the definition of the market because I'll tell you when they were making it easier, for example for health services in 2000 and 2000, some years suddenly there was a boom in dentistry. So everyone started reporting it, turns out the market was ten times bigger than it was a year ago. So let's define it legalized, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36940	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. Is it possible that the proposer's representative would like a final word? Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this agenda point when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen, we've exhausted all the agenda points today. Tomorrow we will continue work at 9.30 in the morning with the item on the agenda Report on the state of nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2008 to 2012 of the current topic. I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. Thank you. Session interrupted at 18.15 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-20-0.u36941	The next item is the Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act, first reading, P.Z. Number 32. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is concluded in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act is not adopted." Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 71 votes for, 1 abstention and 36 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports proposed to the Assembly the following conclusion: "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider proposals presented at the 4th session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of the same preparations for the amendment and addition of the Nanny Act, which will be organised so that all providers of these services are free from paying value added tax". I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously with 111 votes, we have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, which is in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
