ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25258	Good morning, all of you. Here we go with today's work. I usually see my hands up. Here first is Honorable Representative Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25259	Thank you. Good morning, Vice President. I'd like to ask for a break on behalf of the MOST Club regarding the subject of the divisors and the latest allegations about this topic, I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25260	Okay, thank you. Dear Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25261	Thank you, Vice President. Here we are looking for a break on behalf of the HNS and HSU clubs and it is about talking about the abuse of state institutions for pre-election purposes related to local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25262	Thank you. Anyone else? The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25263	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break to discuss the political pressure of Slovenia on Croatia. Among other things, creating unnecessary crowds at Croatian borders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25264	Thank you. Anyone else? No, thank you. I'll see you at 9.47, then. Thank you very much. It's 9:37 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the first representative Tomislav Panenic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25266	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! We had the subject of the divisor. The Secretary of State presented the results of an economic analysis showing that investment in divisors during the lifetime which is 10 years is not profitable. So, if you invest 4,5,000 kunas in one apartment, and in those 10 years, you're not going to make that savings, it's like putting gas in a car. Also to show, it means the savings won't because you don't make enough miles or any other reason won't give you your investment back. Of course that's the topic that opened both the question and the study that I've been doing, but to clarify there is an economic study that has now been the result. One is a technical study, and then it was shown that a colleague of Vrdoljak and led to savings. But what he failed to say is, there's savings in people who started to close the heat in their apartments, and there's a lot of cases where exactly people were complaining during the analysis and work exactly around that part that they couldn't pay their bills and they're getting along in a way that they shut down the heat and freeze. So where do they have that account that's minimal as such is high. On the other hand, it is an alternative source of heating through electricity or something they use and they manage. We have cooled buildings that ultimately damage all the tenants in these buildings, damage to the entire system, reduce gas consumption, cause one reaction that is primarily seen in rising costs, fixed gas supply costs. But let's go back to last year where we tried to do exactly one depreciation and we did it. By lowering the price of gas, which by about twenty percent proved to have amortised the effect and there was a truce, meaning in the inability to change the heat energy law itself with those twenty percent of people went through that winter. So we have to go back to not only having a divisor or something, but people demand that they have favourable heating prices so that they can finance with their incomes monthly. Why did I say the price of gas because most of the heating system, remote heating so-called. It's based exactly on thermal heat that's primarily on gas. And there's a key where we need to look for optimization. On the one hand, of course there will be heat envelopes, optimization of the heating system within the buildings themselves. But on the other hand, who are our suppliers? If we look at the Croatian market 35 suppliers have gas that buys still regulated prices from HEP, from HEP gas supply. And when they come to you, if someone noticed that RW said in the case of liberalisation we, given our size, can offer a lower price of gas. So, therefore, we need to look for not a solution in the RV, but we need to look at our suppliers and their costs that are too high. Their distribution price is simply too high and affects that price of gas. But they don't get to, they don't try to lower their costs. They've got too many employees. But what I did when I did the analysis means a clear analysis of their costs to the regulator, according to HERA, is that they go with one deception. It primarily refers to the cost of the gas connection where those revenues they have from that base put on delayed income. You know what's going on here? So they don't show that income as their own, they don't show it as something they already earned, they show it as if they had cost. So, according to the regulator, they come out with a price if you paid I don't know the 7,000 kuna connection, they say it was their cost. And the regulator, on behalf of such costs, provides them with a higher price to distribute their costs. They manipulate the regulator as such and manipulate the public. And that's the subject to enter. And if someone says they should enter the institutions? They need it because it is a fraud of Croatian societies. And any form we warn now or after the elections or at any time should be clearly pointed out, just looking for models to try to manipulate the public through positive legal proposals. So we're looking at a supply solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25267	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HNS club, HSu's distinguished representative Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25268	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we were looking for a break on behalf of the HNS and HSU clubs for the abuse of state institutions for the purpose of an election campaign in local elections. The HNS and HSU club warns of the increasingly obvious abuse of state institutions, especially the repressive apparatus for pre-election purposes, right in the eyes of the local elections themselves. It can be concluded and created a reasonable doubt that the primary objective of these investigative actions is to cast a shadow on individual candidates, discredit them regardless of whether the final legal order, whether the investigations before the election, before the elections, will, regardless of the outcome of which it will be for these candidates, be carried out by those citizens. And imagine what is very interesting, signifyingly it is exclusively about candidates from the opposition, the parliamentary opposition. We have a recent case of colleagues from our Parliament representative, Sauche, whom we have already been immune to, where, which I am quick to dare now, and I believe that we have in some way agreed to hastily accused and sent immediately to Remetinec, to show that in this case they are an extended investigation, so we have re-demanded immunity, investigating some other persons, according to new information that we have for significantly greater amounts of financial fraud. However, should I point out, unlike fellow Sauche for these others without the measures of an investigative prison. We have a whole series of failed attempts to disabling, tossing out opposition candidates in local elections, we even have an extraction of cases from two, three years ago and right before the election itself. Even we here, not as an opposition, but you on the position side have passed one special law lex Vlahusic, only to disable the man's candidacy as a colleague Vlahusic who has the best chance of being able to join the elections in Dubrovnik. And what is greater absurd he may be by that interpretation of the law and by interpretation of the profession, may be a member of the government, even the Prime Minister if he succeeds in obtaining most of it, may even be a candidate and the president himself. Isn't that absurd? And he can't be a mayoral candidate. So it's hard to justify the passing of this law. This law has only been passed very well we know for what reason, that colleague Andro Vlahusic cannot run for mayor of Dubrovnik. On the other hand, candidates for the parliamentary majority, we have open cases for years back, and even cases of two, three, even ten proceedings against some people, and they don't need to worry. So it seems, it's such a practice that you don't need... that before the local elections anything will be initiated by state institutions against them. However, here is also an example, the latest example of a few days ago, the citizens warned us, there is a criminal application against our fellow parliamentary representative, member of the parliamentary majority, HDZ member and candidate for mayor of Dubrovnik. A very indicative coincidence has been filed against our colleague Mate Frankovic, it has been filed by employees of the Dubrovnik Hotel Maestral. Still no reaction from the DORH, will it be? I'm asking a question to all of us, primarily colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ at MOST, because it's obvious that they are, in some way, directly, whether they are directly and indirectly managing these institutions, with this part of the repressive apparatus. But in order not to be a dilemma, the attitude of the HNS and HSU is very clear, who is guilty must answer. No matter what time it is, whether the elections are or not and what party card he has. And that is why we are asking the state institutions primarily of the DORH repressive apparatus to adhere to this principle, but all 365 days a year and all political options equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25269	Thank you very much. And the third was the Living Wall in the name of which the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac would speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25270	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In recent weeks, we have witnessed huge border jams due to the alleged defence against terrorism, and for these crowds are primarily responsible for the European Commission and Slovenia. The new regime at the borders has shown extreme inhumanity, above all, towards the citizens of the EU themselves who had to stand for hours in endless columns, with small children, patients, without enough water, food, sanitary supplies and medical care. In addition, a completely inhumane attitude towards locals who communicate with each other daily by crossing the border, either because of family visits, friends, and more importantly because of work and business activities. These people certainly had to be provided with alternative possibilities for crossing the border and should not have been allowed to risk their daily activity. The responsibility for the resulting situation is borne by the European Commission because when we join the EU, it promised us a life without borders, an end of isolation and warmth, and instead we got crowds at borders like we haven't seen since the time of Stalinism. An even greater responsibility lies with Slovenia, which allegedly seeks terrorists, but until today no terrorist at the border has arrested, while on the other hand, the only terrorism we have seen was terrorism against people crossing the state border. Slovenia clearly took advantage of the situation for political pressure on Croatia as it did in the time of accession negotiations to join the EU when it consciously and intentionally blocked Croatia. Slovenia does so for reasons to pass international law through relevant courts, through blackmail, pressure and so on. Arbitration tried to hijack parts of the Croatian territory of Savudria vala, St. Gera, parts of Međimurje and some others, to prevent the return of the stolen money to the savings of the former Yugoslavia and to gain the right to fish in Croatian territorial waters. In order to mitigate Slovenian terrorist measures at the border with Croatia ahead of the tourist season, which is the main economic activity in Croatia, the Living Wall suggests that the European Commission be urgently asked to suspend more stringent measures or to adopt additional measures to protect the citizens of Europe. Explain to the European Commission that it cannot ask Croatia, one of the poorest EU members, to bear the financial consequences of protecting the entire EU from alleged terrorism. In this respect, the European Commission needs to ask for compensation, a fee for lost revenue to help all those, especially our hosts and tourist workers who are seriously damaged by these measures. We also call on all parties in the Parliament to reach a consensus on this issue through which the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia would address the European Parliament, expressing concern with the existing situation and seeking assistance or influence on the European Commission. The European Parliament should be asked after this very unpleasant experience to prevent Slovenia and any other member of the European Union in the future from putting any other country within the EU in danger of the economy. It is also necessary to prepare all necessary resources and services on the Croatian side of the border to help tourists leave the Republic of Croatia to survive Slovenian state terrorism at the border, which forces them to stand by for hours and wait as hostages in the service of Slovenian blackmails. In a way that the Croatian side prepares a sufficient number of tanks with drinking water and hygiene needs, a sufficient number of sanitary and toilet appliances, camp trailers and tents to provide medical care to the needy and mothers with small children, packages of food for tourists who have lost food. It is also necessary to prepare brochures that will be distributed to tourists on their departure, which will take note of the causes that have led to such a situation and should also explain to them who is to blame. So, above all, Slovenia, as well as representatives of the countries from which tourists also come in the European Parliament and other EU institutions. After all, all tourists who have suffered the inconvenience of coming to Croatia should be excused and asked to give relevant information to friends in the service of the truth in their countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25271	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club regarding the denial of rights and intimidation of workers at the General Hospital in Virovitica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25272	Thank you. So does anyone else want to take a break besides the Most Representatives' Club? Okay. Then I'll see you at 12 o'clock exactly. It's 11:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS]] There's even less of us than there were, but my colleague, Sagar, will tell us what he's up to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u25274	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I've been looking for this break on behalf of the MOST Club to discuss a phenomenon that happened in my county, which is unacceptable. We, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, are obliged to advocate and defend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which guarantees equality for all before the law. And in that sense, any violation of such provisions is not acceptable. In fact, we can't value people based on who drives a car, who has a suit. True, if a person performs a certain function that is more important by its nature, then he must have a certain advantage. However, it is not in such a way that the rights of those who have a less advantage are abolished. On the other hand, I come from the county which is one of the poorest in the Republic of Croatia, and people are leaving our county every day. It's estimated that 18000 people have lost this county in the last eight years. What is the exact information that you can find on the Internet 4885 children is less in schools in Virovitica-Podravska County in 8 years. That's scary data. And what is the reason for these words? I mean, yesterday you could see in the media, at least local, I don't know if the state media published it. The article reads: “Strengthening in Virovitica, the director of Virovitica Hospital requires an indication of all those who have laxated their status against her. ” It's an address from the paper. All those who had something to say on Facebook about the Decision on the parking schedule in front of Virovitica General Hospital or even squeezed the link below the announcement could find themselves in serious problems with Director Mirjana Peček. The story was initiated by senior medical technician Ivan Marekovic, who was disturbed by the fact that new parking spaces were intended only for highly-ranked hospital employees, while nurses, technicians and other staff must seek parking where they arrived. According to Virovitica net Mareković, on his Facebook account he published a scan of the decision with a comment: "One more in a series of embarrassing our hospital and parking lots and cones". Since he published this 70 friends with the mah of hospital employees, his status has been lax, and some have gone so far as to comment on him. All of them received a call from the principal and it was a real official document with a signature and a stamp, that at the latest by 27 April at 8 p.m. they were written about the event, and the reasons for the commentation, because they had caused damage to the employer and the reputation of the Director of General Hospital Virovitica. This memo is accompanied by this decision. I'll just read some of the comments on that Facebook. One of them seems so impressive to me. I went home with a stomach cramp, thank God I'm leaving this country soon, and this kind of working environment, I have no words to call it. You saved yourself, I'll soon thank God this is no longer watching and listening. I live for the day I go, at least there's a word like this I won't say and humiliate people there, respect the workers and his rights, I know I won't regret it. This must be the best decision of my life." So the situation is very serious, although I'm not going to go into whether the principal has the right to make decisions about parking spaces. But what is the task of Director of the General Hospital Virovitica, to find ways, to find places that people can come uninterrupted to work and perform their duties. According to the information I have there is land that can be..., so the role of the principal is to solve problems, not create them, and especially in a way that scares people and invites them to responsibility just because they dared to express dissatisfaction on the facebook profile. So I think everyone in this country has the right to express their dissatisfaction. And in the end, all of this wouldn't even be saying, this isn't an isolated case in the Virovitica-Podravska County, I once said it here, in all 13 municipalities and 3 cities and the county is in power of HDZ and you trust me the housekeeper can't get a job if she's not a member of the HDZ, it's such a model. We all have to fight together to get these models to work. People find it very difficult to reach jobs, if they fear for their jobs every day, how will they do it? Believe me, some people are even afraid to drink coffee with some people so that someone doesn't see them and that's why they're going to suffer. It has to change only in that case I think that then the county and this society can move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37061	Thank you very much. Perhaps the truth works very clearly to say that the EU document allows all countries not to do systematic controls but also to work and control according to their intentions, to do controls, targeted controls. So that's the state's decision. Whether or not they will work one or the other, for example, the Hungarian State has decided to do targeted controls and therefore the permeability is incomparably higher. It's a country decision, not the EU. The EU does not commit that systematic controls must be done. But in any case, it is the fact that you have pointed out that unfortunately, especially in connection with the Easter holidays, there have been enormous columns and that it is for fear of what it will look like in the season. But now we will move to our 1st item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 124. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. Contributions to the bill are not multiplied but are on the Assembly's website. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and their reports were received at the session. The amendment was filed by a representative of Peja Grbin. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Management, Mihovil Škaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37062	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable MPs. In short, I will present the basic guidelines of these Amendments and the addition of the Law on civil servants who, together, actually ensure more efficient work of civil servants, more efficient employment and, in fact, raise the administrative capacity of the government body primarily in the business and process of absorbing the funds that are available to us from the European Structural and Investment Funds. The procedure for admission to the State Service is long and complicated and the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Employees is also intended to simplify and accelerate, in particular, the reception of civil servants on the management and use of European Structural Investment Funds, while respecting the constitutional guarantee of equal availability of public service to all citizens under equal conditions. In the case of the employment of staff in ESI-related operations, exemptions shall be proposed from the application of the provisions of the law or any other regulation and all in order to speed up the recruitment process in those transactions. It is proposed that the employment of ESI fund-related jobs should not be provided for in the State Service reception plan and the abolition of the obligation of the state authorities to verify that there is a government official available and to verify their competences prior to the launch of a public tender or an internal advert. Also, for labour and exceptional projects financed from EU funds, persons can be admitted to the state service for a certain period of time during the duration of the project. Under the applicable provisions of the law, the State Service may, for a specified period, last for a maximum period of one year. However, it has been shown that the projects financed by ESI funds generally last longer than that period and during this period of capacity require more employees and greater engagement of existing employees. Also in the case of the reception of officials in the management and control of the use of ESI funds, an emergency appeal procedure is proposed, which means that the Board of State Service of Appeal should be immediately taken into work and resolved within 30 days. In addition, it is proposed to speed up the recruitment procedure for all employees regardless of which jobs are employed. Thus, a series of simplifications are proposed and, thereby, the acceleration of the employment process itself, in the process preceding the opening of a public tender for admission to the state service, it is necessary to verify whether there is an official available to the Government who fulfils the conditions for the schedule in that job. This bill provides for a faster way of checking the data on employees available using the electronic web application community and information resources of the centre of administration. If the Government has at its disposal state officials who meet the prescribed conditions, it is proposed that the state authority only invites civil servants whose place of residence is no more than 50 km from the state body, or regardless of the distance if the application indicates that the official agrees with the schedule to another state body and if it is more distant from its place of residence. It is also proposed to abolish the obligation of the ministry of the Ministry of Administration to participate in commissions for the implementation of a public tender and an internal ad. Namely, the Institute of the Ministry of Administration has not achieved its purpose. Although a representative of the Ministry of Administration may warn of the need for legal action and point to certain illegalities, he is only one member of the public tender commission whose vote in most cases does not affect decision-making. It also requires appropriate time and costs for the appointment of a representative of the Ministry of Administration, where the Ministry of Administration does not have sufficient personal and administrative capacity to ensure the appointment and presence of its representatives, or representatives from the ranks of its staff, so that it often determines the officials of other bodies but which, also because of their official obligations or even misunderstandings, cannot participate in the work of such committees. It is also proposed to amend the applicable legal solution which requires the delivery of a solution to the state service of the selected candidate to all candidates in the public tender procedure by means of mail, in a way that provides for the delivery of a solution to the reception of the state service by public publication on the website of the state body which has opened the public tender and the website of the Central Authority responsible for official relations, i.e. The Department of Management. A delivery is considered to have expired on the eighth day from the date of public publication on the website of the Central Authority responsible for official relations. The proposed way would significantly simplify the process, speed up, and also reduce the cost of delivery of the solution, and also not less importantly, level the calculation of deadlines compared to all candidates in which they can submit legal medicines to that solution. Legal amendments are also proposed to intervene in provisions governing the issues of the Committee on State Service. In the application of the law, i.e. The work of the State Service Committee has identified the problems of long-term procedures in which it decides to join the State Service, schedule at work, rights, obligations and responsibilities of civil servants, as well as the termination of the State Service. Procedures last from several months to up to two years. In the decision-making process on those issues, including the decision on all rights and obligations of civil servants, the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act shall apply, and the legal consequences of the decision-making shall only take place with the date of enforcement of the solution. Therefore, it is proposed to speed up these procedures in such a way as to rule exclusively on the status rights and obligations of civil servants in the administrative procedure, while other rights and obligations, such as the right to vacation, paid or unpaid leave, the right to compensation for the costs of transport to work, would be decided in the manner provided for in the general labour regulations. This way actually adapts, i.e. harmonizes the status of officials and rules governing their status with general labour legislation, which would speed up procedures before the Committee on State Service. The Committee would be relieved of a significant number of cases as it would only decide on complaints against solutions which determine status rights and obligations. It is also proposed to appoint board members on the basis of a public tender, not on the basis of an internal ad, as indicated by the current provision, which would significantly extend the range of potential candidates in the process and better quality selection of members of the Committee on State Service. And as another lever, an extra lever to speed up their work and make them more efficient. It is also intervened with these amendments and additions to the provisions on the relocation of civil servants. According to the current provision, a civil servant may be moved, where appropriate, to another post in the same or other state body, in the same or other place of work but only to a place of employment for which the same degree of education is prescribed and the necessary working experience in the same duration. In order to promote the mobility of civil servants, but also to encourage the lateral promotion of civil servants, the possibility of moving employees to a job with more demanding conditions is proposed, i.e. the possibility of moving to a workplace for which the same degree of education is prescribed and the necessary working experience for an equal or longer duration. And exceptionally with its consent and to the workplace for which the working experience is prescribed for a shorter duration. It also proposes to supplement and amend the provisions concerning the obstacle to admission to the state service. The intensity of such an amendment is to lay down a general provision in order to avoid a detailed list of the provisions of the Penal Code and to achieve the purpose of the inability of employment in the state service of persons subject to criminal proceedings. Therefore, instead of taxing the groups of criminal offences, they are proposed to prescribe that no persons against whom the proceedings are conducted under official duty or found guilty of a criminal offence for which the criminal proceedings are conducted under official duty cannot be admitted to the State service. As regards the provisions on the termination of the service by force of the law, they shall be amended and supplemented in the following way, in order to comply with the labour law, more specifically with Article 112(4). The labour law which stipulates that the labour contract ceases when the worker is 65 years of age and 15 years of retirement, unless the employer and the worker agree differently, a provision under which the civil servant ceases when he is 65 years old and at least 15 years of retirement, unless otherwise agreed by the head of the body and civil servant. It is therefore proposed to bring this provision of the Law on civil servants into line with general labour legislation. In that case, the service shall cease on the last day of the year in which those conditions are met if agreed. It is also proposed to prescribe more precisely the reason for the termination of the state service by force of the law because of the judicial sentence given in criminal proceedings. Where a civil servant is sentenced to a sentence of imprisonment or sentence of a long-term prison or a partial sentence for a criminal offence for which a criminal offence has been conducted under official duty, the date of knowledge of the power of judgment unless the sentence has been given to him by a fine, a conditional sentence or a work for the common good. It is proposed to adopt this law by emergency procedure, the Croatian Parliament is proposed to adopt such a procedure and, after discussing the final proposal for a law, to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37063	Thank you very much. The Parliament has already accepted this procedure. Now we'll move on to the rapporteurs. Do the rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS MPs' club, the first one will be addressed by a respected representative, Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Anything that leads to simplification, especially when we're talking about an administrative apparatus, I don't want to use a bureaucratic apparatus is commendable. However, what I lack in these arguments, and I believe it would be desirable for the very monitoring of changes to laws that are more or less technical, and as soon as simplification is spoken of, there is no reason to oppose it. However, in Article 2 of what is crucial is the adoption of the State Service in accordance with the State Service admission plan set out in this law except in cases, and now it is a matter of admission to the State Service for a specified time, the filling of the job that has been filled with the departure of officials and this under c reception... on the management of the management of the use of European Structural and Investment Funds, and here is what is crucial. We remember that, at the end of the mandate of the HNS and SDP coalition government, a strategic document was adopted on the trail of public administration reform, the government that preceded this one had a good document, a working document that should have been further developed to define, ultimately, by all ministries how much it really takes, given the size of the jobs, how much it takes for the officials, the tenants, the profile to go and to change the job systematization. That's what I expected from this government. There has been an announcement of public administration reform as it is said, not only through all the media but also here, unfortunately we have received a law that I would like to believe will solve the problem, but I am not sure how and when on which time period. I would like special attention in the debate, I will not be long, I will talk about the ESEI funds, the European Structural Investment Funds, we bear witness to examples we have many by various ministries. For example, last year was the deadline of the 9th month, a September month for the application of certain projects of the Ministry of Economy, the results of valorisation, evaluation are not available today. Some competitions from the same resolution ministry ended the application was, I think whether the end of the 11th or the beginning of the 12th month, today many projects, I speak from the position of small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, the OPG's slowness in resolving this, it says that this law, the legislative proposal should certainly support these solutions which are on the basis of this we seek to positively read to eliminate administrative bureaucratic barriers to people's admission to the state service. But I didn't get an answer I think that we had something similar in the last session, how many people trained to say certified needs to the individual ministry to solve this problem, so as to control the European Structural Investment Funds, or to evaluate whether certain projects can pass and implement the funds, I would like to know what the number is for a particular relevant ministry because we are aware of the facts of a very slow resolution of these requirements. I also warned the committee about regional development because so far according to statistics how much funding has been withdrawn, not as agreed. There's a huge difference, and we're all aware of that, even though when it suits us then we're talking about how much money is agreed, and when we pull back then we're talking about how much has been withdrawn or achieved, let me say the money has come into the state budget or the local self-government or depending on the entrepreneur. I wouldn't want to manipulate that data, but I certainly don't think it's good. We are now at the end of April, the percentage of non-contracted projects but achieved is very, very, very small, even dangerously small, I dare say and question if this dynamic, at this rate, goes into realisation as far as finance is concerned, the realization of projects I am afraid that the projection that was defined, or planned by the state budget, will come into question. And it's a serious question. Therefore, we can accept this part even though some other things are regulated by these amendments to the law. I wouldn't want to give it a political dimension right now and positive or negative first of all, a negative experience from previous years that, how, in what way. However, I ask the question, in the Republic of Croatia, we have a number of local agencies, regional agencies, private companies, I believe that it may have been discussed to find a period, to now speed up the procedures of valorisation, project evaluation and attraction, or final realisation of funds. That's one question. The second question is, I know very well from my own experience that the process of certification of highly educated people, means whether they are baccalaureus or have high equipment or a higher certification process lasts from 4 to 6 months, 4 to 6 months. Because we just realized one project in our local self-government to be trained for this job that's wanted here. And now if the procedure lasts for a month, two and another training to say so so that we can obtain a certificate, so that we can do a certain job, it's about 11th, 12th month. I therefore propose and propose to the Minister of Regional Development and the Minister of Agriculture to see regional agencies, with local agencies that have certified people, trained to try to amend the law, to pass a law that will last for a certain period of time, and it is necessary that these people in some way put themselves in the function of what this law wants to do for a certain period of time until it has been dimensioned and has been capitulated by a sufficient number of people in the resolution ministries. And even at the expense of writing maybe certain projects because I'm afraid we have data, a few thousand projects per individual competition, huge money. But I'm not, I'm skeptical. Although I'm saying in principle we can't be against this law of intent. But I'm skeptical, and I think it's more important to talk about this particular segment than the very technical part of the law. That is why I would also ask the Resort Ministry, although it is not directly responsible for them but also for the Government, primarily for all the ministries and which I mentioned to them, which they also have in their jurisdiction of the ESI and the funds to try to find one amongst them, amongst the solutions precisely for the reasons that as much as possible of the funds to be merged into both the state and local budgets and also the budgets of the economy. This is no problem what it says here, but the problem is what effect it's going to be. Furthermore, I would say more, and I specifically sought out a licensed, qualified, because we have the return of information, the valorisation of certain projects that local self-government have run for office, the question of the competence of these people who carry out not only administrative checks as a first step but also valorisation. My colleagues and colleagues, there's a huge problem. Unfortunately, the valorisation of certain projects is done by people with all due respect who do not know the subject spoken of. In the valorisation phase of administrative verification, valorisation of projects and how much these projects, or the evaluation of these projects later through the score, are these projects necessary or not. I think this problem has several levels of problems, but I think it's one of the key ones. And so to repeat, it means training, certification or how we want to educate the people we're talking about because I'm not sure, and I'd like to know if at the level of the Republic I have to say free capacities, people who want to work in the state service on these jobs right now, I'm not sure for any more reason. We all know what pay is, we need to talk about it openly in agencies, and especially in private agencies, wages are multiple. And I would also like to see the Ministry of Administration specifically concretely, and I would also like to have other resolute ministries specifically government to take care of that, this is reality. It's a reality and no one's going to work eight to 10 hours behind you, and somewhere else there's 10 to 15, that's our reality. So I'm afraid that even in these amendments to the laws I say in principle, there's no reason not to support it, but I'm afraid we're not going to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37065	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the next one will speak to the distinguished representative, Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37066	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs are here before us this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants with the Final Proposal of the Law. As we have heard very fully from the Secretary of State about the proposed changes, I will look first and foremost at the applicable law and say that he has already experienced more changes. Those issues which are not governed by the Law on civil servants or by a special law, or by government regulations, shall be covered by the Act on Labour as a general regulation. The law defines civil servants and subsistence officers and their rights, obligations, responsibilities, management in the state service, admission to the state service, decision on rights, obligations and responsibilities of civil servants, then classification of posts in service, transfer, evaluation, promotion in service, education of civil servants, liability for violations of official duties, liability for damages. Then the availability, the termination of the state service, and the definition of the furniture. The practice so far has shown that the state service accession procedure is long and complicated and it is truly commendable that this legislative proposal wants to simplify itself and thus speed up, and this is particularly important because of the reception of officials in the management and control of the use of European structural and investment funds, as well as other civil servants. What is important is to actually make an important change that will contribute to the acceleration is to check whether there is an official available in the Government and to verify their competences, such as under the current law, before calling a public tender or an internal ad. This obligation is abolished and I think it will indeed lead to some acceleration in the process of the admission of officials. I also think that it is very important to change for the better that it is possible for those officials financed from the projects, which are financed from EU funds to remain able to work until the completion of the project, and not as it has been since now for a maximum period of one year for a certain period of time, because, as a rule, the projects are longer. And then we had really one particular problem which, after the deadline of one year, we couldn't actually legally have a civil servant working on that project in those years. We had to re-prove the reception procedure for it or manage in any way, so I think this really is a commendable change that will make it really easier in that part to continue working on the projects until the very end. What the Secretary of State mentioned and what is very significant is that the Committee on the State's Service will resolve complaints immediately, i.e. the longest within 30 days when it comes to the reception of officials on management and control of the use of European Structural Investment Funds. We think that this is really important because of what he was talking about, and that really the use of European structural investment funds is put into one higher speed, in order to achieve the greatest impact and we need to make it possible in this technical sense, that officials working on these jobs and at reception, but also in the protection of their rights, that this process is expedient. A measure that will contribute to efficiency is also a faster way of checking data on officials available in the Government using an electronic web application. What is also significant and this is that all those solutions on admission to the state service that have been delivered so far are going to be addressed to all candidates after these adopted changes, meaning delivery is predicted by advertising on the website of that body which has opened a public tender and on the website of the Central Authority for official relations, which I think will significantly facilitate the reception of officials, i.e. to reduce the same costs of delivery that the state authorities had because we had, therefore, a tender where there was a real number of candidates and 500, 600 candidates where that delivery really requires certain resources. And not to mention that there was indeed a longer period of time in such a delivery until all of the candidates had received the orderly withdrawals of the acts and that the procedure could then be carried out until the end, i.e. a solution to the schedule. As for the change on the ability to move employees to a more job, I think it is good, that it will also encourage and motivate officials to be even more efficient at their jobs, in their work, that they can make progress in this way, be moved to higher-ranking official positions, which so far has not been possible. And in this way one greater mobility of officials will actually be achieved. What is also significant is that all of these changes do not require additional funding in the state budget and we think that all the proposed changes to water are more effective for the state service, that they lead to the acceleration of the procedures themselves, and that is why the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37067	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37068	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Jelkovac. You said that this law represents some kind of change for the better, that civil servants will now be motivated to move forward, but it seems that first and foremost the issue of public competitions should be resolved in which people are employed in public service, because it is known that while HDZ is in power, even the cleaning lady cannot be employed without being similar to your party. You just always play those public tenders, it's always known in advance who will be employed, and a man can have whatever education he wants because literacy, knowledge of languages and have experience if he's not from your frame there he simply has no chance of being employed. For this reason, I call on you to conduct all public tenders under codes, this has been announced several times by the ministries without names and last names, that these tenders are conducted by independent commissions, and that as far as possible, you throw out these interviews that are mentioned in this law, which are in fact the main means by which unwanted personnel are eliminated. I know you're going to say that the contests are working now, but here I am reporting for numerous competitions I've never been employed and I honestly doubt that you would personally ever hire me anywhere, so I don't know what qualifications I have just because I'm from the Living Wall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37069	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Jekovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37070	Dear colleague, I really can't accept these flat-rate reviews of yours. The law predicts testing all candidates through a public tender, testing is not just an interview. So the testing is conducted from the general part, a special part means that candidates all have to show some knowledge, before testing themselves they get also advertised on the website from which areas they will be tested, get materials, laws all from which they need to be prepared. The candidate who makes the most points has the greatest chance of being accepted. Interviews only bring a certain number of points and cannot be based on them just to decide who will be accepted. So your real qualifications don't stand and I think they're political and that when you say something like that, you really have to be responsible for your word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37071	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the next one will speak for the distinguished representative Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37072	Dear colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants, with the Final Proposal of the Law should not cause any or should not cause many controversy for the simple reason of a soundly reasoned attitude and a firmly reasoned starting point which rejects all exaggeration in advance. So on this occasion, I'm not going to go too far into exaggerating this law with some kind of rhetorical form, and all to get into the space of derivating simplicity and fact and blurry that it's the simplicity of fact right here. This law has also been seen from the very record of the absence of a large number of replicas that it is a law that we all support and the necessary law. The Republic of Croatia needs European Structural Investment Funds, they are needed by the Republic of Croatia if we look at it in its cultural form, if we look at it through territory, citizens or through its economy and politics. And precisely because of this need to exploit the European Structural Investment Funds, it is also necessary to pass laws that will allow this exploitation and control of the use of funds and funds to be as effective as possible and to obtain the results we expect, and these results cannot be taken into account only by the measure of the economy but also by the measure of politics, democracy and other civilizational optics. So far, the admission of civil servants has been fully committed to the sterileness of the bureaucratic mind, which should hardly serve anything but the mere vindication of this very sterile or bureaucratic mind. And for this reason, because of my initial position that it was a simplicity of fact, it had to give up many legal solutions, but also the practice of receiving civil servants and deputies. These civil servants and tenants, as we have seen from the practice so far, were subject to that clan that was to be presented and subject to the mechanism and legality of the previous question whether there may be a person in the system, a state official of the necessary specific knowledge or skills. It's almost some kind of ontology of an officer. The state body should only be referred to these rather vague waters when it is intended to come into possession or possess knowledge or skills. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. If we consider only this fact, it is clear that it is a valuable contribution to the law. However, the law does not only retain this, simplicity and fact-finding in the area that when it comes to moving employees to a state body, it is possible to move it if it is up to 50km from the place of residence of that official or if it is working more than 50km if that official has expressed his consent and that consent has been entered into in his personal file. However, it is much more important that the second part is relocated by civil servants, which is to end this one irrationality. On the one hand, we have the rationality of the current law that the civil servant could only move to the workplace of another state body that requires the same level of education but also the working experience of the same duration, which entails that the civil servant cannot move to a job that will enable him to have lower education and thus lower material labour rights. This is rational, however, and we also find some irrationality if it prevents an official from moving to a more complex workplace which, by doing so, leads to a higher coefficient, or what we call a better job or a better job. Thanks to this bill that doth such irrational practice, this irrationality now becomes part of the historical consciousness or history, we will talk about it as irrational but we will no longer listen to that irrational speech. The press of the Ministry of Administration and the reform logo that this ministry has taken, it is evident that the irrational speech and speech of all that irrational disappears from our political and public space. And therefore, the club of the representatives of the Most Independent Lists supports this proposal to amend and supplement the law, and I support this proposal, and because this law also encourages us to slowly change the paradigm of civil servants as those who should, thanks to this bureaucratic mind, who should be and represent the burden of society, that is, all that should be a certain monumental heritage of unnecessaryness in society. We have seen, for example, the exploitation of European structural investment funds, which is a link between economy and democracy, but also that in this relationship between economy and democracy, it is not possible to bypass this important link and this link is called civil servants. Which is why this change of paradigm is important to us in relation to the perception of officials, precisely because in this law the club of the Independent Lists finds a strong pedagogical instrument that leads us to raise ourselves in a different way and forget the so far public educational pedagogy that approaches civil servants from the level of this one pathology, public dispersion of consciousness, bringing them down to unnecessaryness. It is clear that I will not now strengthen, open those, fortunately forgotten discussions about how these laws should read and look for some kind of building of an ethical platform with which we will criticise all living and all that comes from the opposite camp. This law isn't. This law is indeed a law that comes from simplicity and factfulness but it is a law that can lead to our growing economies, to grow democracy, and it is clear that capital is not a prerequisite and neither is the necessary condition for the development of freedom, freedoms are developed elsewhere but neither is the state any giant entity that grows and revives economic power but it is a simple fact that all the laws that go through this House and this Law on civil servants are in the capacity of our commitment to create a state that will not extradite us to neither economic power nor economic impotence but will take care of the rights of all citizens. about the rights of all citizens. Therefore, in this expanded explanation of the club of the independent lists, it supports these efforts coming from the Ministry of Administration, supports the ministry's reform logo and thus supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37073	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37074	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Vučetić, you've noticed well that the Ministry of Administration is silent, so he's doing his job. Minister Kovacic is not a man of some large PR, though he is a man of sometimes somewhat more difficult words, and this bill shows that the ministry is going towards simplification, meaning the very process of employment of people dealing with EU funds. But what's interesting and what's gone below the surface of which almost no medium has written on a large scale is an announcement, meaning cutting the number of supervisors into over 300 agencies that we have coming from the Ministry of Administration. And counterpart Batinic spoke earlier about the lack of reform of the administration. We see that it also happens through this bill and through all these announcements. And I am convinced that Minister Kovacic will be a spirit with an ax, that he will simplify the regulations, but also that he will cut down all those supervisors in the agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37075	Thank you very much. I see we've come to Zagora. Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37076	Comrade Grmoy, here's my thanks for this replica of yours. It's precisely because we see what I called a reform logo at the Ministry of Administration, and it's simple to sum up in seeing the place where we stopped political ecstasy and we started with effective policies. All effective policies should lead to our life being simple, to move life away from these laws of ecstasy that do not lead to or lead to anything good. Both Minister Kovacic and what he has done so far, and what he has announced in his work, it seems to me, however, that instead of choosing the axe, he chose the laws, but that painting is more interesting to me than to make the law become a picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37077	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37078	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Vučetić, I would refer to this link between your bureaucratic mind and this law. I will certainly commend the law as well as the work of the Ministry of Administration that went into the realization of everything they announced. However, when we talk about the bureaucratic mind, that is why we have one big problem in general with the withdrawal of funds from European funds, since I worked as a privateer in the sector, I can say that I have often been hired by local self-government units to write projects for withdrawal from European funds, and for those same places within the same local self-government units, there have already been people whose job it was. So, this very law, except that, of course, the most important thing will be the verification of the existing capacity of human resources in the Republic of Croatia is that we do not come, that we do not continue what has already been going on for the past 25 years, and that is the constant accumulation of non-competent civil servants who do not want to and who do not have the will to learn what they are paid for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37079	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37080	The bureaucratic mind is not a mind, it's stupidity. But somehow it should be civilized to say it without entering the areas of insult. So the bureaucratic mind is not a reality that belongs to the mind. Just like the reality of people who are employed in a workplace who have no competence to dynamic their job is not employees, but are something else. What we are doing with this law now and thanks to an electronic web application in which all data will be stored and all these data resources on employees will be available, in the light of their knowledge and skills. We don't need people trying to fill the workplace in a way that's empty. We need people who have specific knowledge and skills, i.e. people whose procedure of formal, informal, informative education resulted in the adoption of some learning outcomes and the adoption of certain skills. And that's exactly what this law is, in that law, and I'm reading it. This is not said because the law does not concern our education policies, but this law assumes that our education policies are also healthy and that our way of hiring employees is anti-corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37081	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Orsat Milenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37082	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues, so the opening law is making significant improvements and we will support it. So that's simplified. All that can contribute to speeding up the state service process, on the one hand, to remove formalities and more importantly to do just that in order to implement funds and projects is something that we will support. So in order not to talk any further about support, I'm going to say some things that I think should have been solved differently in order to make it better. First of all, although he's not here right now, but I'm going to look back, I think it's very bad that this law goes into emergency procedure and we only have one reading. That's bad because he affects status stuff. Nothing would be lost if a month later they were brought in, and I believe that through the debate, there would be better solutions. Three or four things I think should be pointed out. Firstly, it is proposed to abolish the obligation of representatives of the Ministry of Administration to participate in competition commissions. It's from your explanation something that should be logical, but in practice I think it's very bad when the contests are closed and there's no one on the side to participate in their implementation. So far, they have been officials of the Department of Administration, but they are determined to be representatives of the union, but someone on the side is good when they participate in the competition. It's good for transparency, it's healthy for legality and for the execution of the competition itself. That's how the competition works when it's tighter and stronger, and I think that's how it should be built in. So if you don't have the capacity at the Ministry of Administration, maybe give these people some compensation if they go there and that's possible, but if they don't have the capacity to think either union or someone else, it's good to have someone on the side of the competition. Wherever we apply such a solution we have better procedures, it is not good to close. That's the first one. Secondly, it is said in acceleration that the board will only solve status issues, and the rest would go theoretically to regular courts. I'll tell you here it's a disaster. Regular courts, burden them, so the people we pay very well, and with the conditions we have in the judiciary now burden them to solve annual holidays is below each level, and that is a disastrously bad solution, a very bad solution. It may speed you up here on the one hand, but in the judiciary right where we're struggling, where we have problems with workers who have longevity of procedures, it will prolong them even further. And for what? It's a vacation. It's a very bad solution. A concrete suggestion for you is to go here, and that should otherwise be considered to apply to all working relationships, to go towards the arbitration system. So why don't you set up a special arbitration system that will make decisions within two weeks or 30 days, and we'll move on? It doesn't make sense that you're letting the court handle a minor problem. This will be settled by a municipal court that settles disputes on billions of kunas, which solves extremely important matters, you will now give him one thing that you yourself have declared more trivial here to move out of this system, and the judiciary will be burdened. It's a very bad solution. I appeal to you to change this because in practice it will lead to a lot of problems, and such long-term work-related procedures will slow down. Next thing you know, I'm not sure it's a good solution for the board members to become civil servants. They should be independent and if they come from the side, I think they should leave when their mandate is up, go back where they came from. The solution, if I read it well, under which they will become civil servants after the end of the term of office, is actually an increase in the quota of civil servants on the one hand, on the other hand, the committee that needs to be independent will not be, because tomorrow they will depend, they know that they have to apply for admission into the state service and are dominated by the mentality of civil servants and have a very different view and interest than they should have. I think the existing solution is better than guessing a few people who are going to get a permanent job with it, I don't see any reason for this. You can solve them in a different way, but if anyone reports for the board, they must be ready to go back to where he came from, not to enter the public service. That doesn't make sense. The fourth thing, when you go into retirement, office, this solution that is there, but then I think you need to connect it to this solution that you have about working for a certain time with the projects, because it will happen to you that the civil servant is also working on your project, it's not for a certain time, it's going to go away, and someone who works parallelly can actually stay because we don't have such a restriction or is also applying the limit of years. It's something I can't read all the way out here and it'd be good to get rid of before it goes into practice. But one principled thing, citizens will not have a better state administration because of this. This is one shift and I said we support it, but we won't have a better state administration. What I'm missing here is also a solution, so we say this, we need people to implement the projects, so we're going to take them from the labour market for a certain time in a special procedure, not a time rule on civil servants, do what it takes, go outside, okay. But there's no situation here where you have at the same time an official who's in the job description says he's running and working on these projects. That's not settled. And then you'll send the citizens a message to this guy saying he's working on the project, but he doesn't actually know how to do it, so we're taking someone on the side that we're taking for a while, paying extra is not good. So here I propose a solution to which, if there are no officers who are in favour of this is one story, but if there are, and we need to take someone on the side, then we need to ask whether these officers should stay in the system because they are obviously not capable. So some kind of message has to be sent and different through this law, not only to the state administration, because this law is unfortunately turned too towards the state administration, not to the citizens. If we're going down, we need additional people, that's fine, but then what about the people who work inside who, for whatever reason, can't or won't do it, they need to go out. And that's one solution that would prevent parallelism because it's going to happen. You'll have, the citizens will ask you so look at this job description to work on the project, and now you've hired me three more people. And what's our answer? We don't have it. So it's not good and it's all settled in law. If I didn't keep up with these remarks, I'd be happier if we were in two readings if we could discuss them better. I think it's our view that they're worth discussing because they'd give a move to the law with a warning that it's an extremely, extremely and unacceptable solution that these, I'll simply say that the solutions to the annuals go to regular courts, it's a disaster. The law will be in... support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I appeal to turn to the citizens when we make the law. We had and discussed them for a long time and should be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Should civil servants be in special status at all, or should they be in the status of a labour contract like all other employees? Many European countries have that solution. Let's just say I'm sorry this law didn't discuss it. I'm not saying that one or the other is a better solution, but if we're changing the Civil Service Act, that's one key question because we're doing all of this and we haven't solved this central issue that's status. Okay, we can read from this to keep the status as it is, special status, but then it needs to be implemented differently through everything. Then don't put the provisions in the labour contract because then it's one mixing, you'll have double status, I mean it's not good. So, here's thank you very much, I hope you'll appreciate the remarks, they've been made to the best extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37083	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Drazen Bošnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37084	I'll wait for my colleague Milenić to come. My colleague Milenić, I agree with you completely that citizens deserve actually a good and effective administration. Will this law help it, in fact, contribute to the acceleration of employment and, in fact, it targets some jobs that are important in the EU's withdrawal system. There's actually one thing I'd like to open here, which is that there's no party in its programme that doesn't have an effective administration, which is actually a citizen service, which is not our own purpose, and we're actually hearing about it in all places. There's a little problem that seems important to me in that whole story, which is an evaluation of the officers. That evaluation, actually, I'd say it's a farce. They're all above average, they're all great, they're all perfect, and in fact, the evaluation might need to be regulated so that a man gets that grade he meets and that's actually the result of his work. And through that evaluation, the head of the board could reward someone and someone could bring down the stairs. So I think it's an important segment that should actually give some kind of attention in the future because a system where everyone is extraordinary and everyone above average is not really a system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37085	Thank you for the response of the esteemed MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37086	Thank you very much. Comrade Bošnjak, I completely agree, I think we are and it goes to that remark that we are a little quick about this and we haven't had a good discussion. So where I see a solution to exactly what you're talking about, but also when you're getting into the state service and when you're evaluating, that's an external evaluation. Many countries have come to this, and it is one system that provides good solutions. So one thing we think about ourselves, we're talking about civil servants when they're inside, the general government service, and the other is when you have someone on the side that's actually going to participate in one and the other procedure and according to some of the criteria that exist, today you with the development of information can set a whole series of parameters to be objective. In fact, on the one hand, they participate in the procedure of admission of civil servants, we move some kind of bias, influences, etc., we choose those who are really the best but more important in the evaluation. The evaluation is terribly important. We have mentality in the state service often indisputables, so the boss won't mind, everyone gets the best grade and everyone goes on. That grade is pointless. If it keeps going like that, then it's better to stop it because she's not serving anything right now. Maybe for someone, just to punish someone, but not because they didn't work well, but because they're bad relationships again. So I think we should really think about it here, but that's the question of whether it's a work contract, is this it? If this is the case, let's think about introducing an external element in both service reception and evaluation. And as many objective criteria as possible. If you have how many officers you have to solve the case monthly so it's mathematically very clear whether it's solved or not, so I can, I think we put it for the judges. If we put such criteria for judges, why can't we put them here? And then it can participate in this assessment which can then be more objective and actually achieve the goal that we want, which is to reward the one we need and actually punish the one who doesn't work well. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37087	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Boris Milosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37088	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the promoter. At the beginning of the presentation, I would like to point out that I would like this proposal to be in the first reading, so that it goes into the regular procedure and that this is the first reading and discussion that we are having today, one quality preparation and a basis for a second reading, for one more quality final bill. Otherwise, there is not much point to debate and actually because the law will be adopted as proposed, we will not have the opportunity to make our remarks that are constructive in the very text of the law. We also have reports from the Constitutional Court just about this problem which actually says that an emergency procedure is a harsh violation of parliamentary practice and that the Parliament should really try to make sure that everything that can go into the regular procedure, to discuss it in two readings. This law was held in the Croatian Parliament and last year, not in 100% content as proposed today, but it was. So in the last session, he didn't experience another reading, and I think if he could wait a year until he could make it a few months, a month and a half, two, so he could cook a little more and cook a little more. As regards the law itself, which proposes a faster and simpler procedure of hiring employees, and in the management and control operations of the use of European investment, structural investment funds of structural investment funds, and to simplify the employment of civil service employees, we can generally only welcome this. And that's what this debate so far has shown. So, we all think that the process of admission to the state service is preoccupied, entangled and actually takes too long. What I personally think could have been even more courageous, gone into an even more revolutionary change, into an even greater simplification to make the process as simple as possible, so that the whole recruitment process would be as quick as possible not to last a few months. Perhaps you should even consider that a state body specializes in hiring civil servants, so also by calling for tenders and by conducting tests and performing all of those necessary activities when receiving a civil servant. The proposer or the Government has a chance to fix this in some way, i.e. to work on the adoption of a regulation announced by this draft law, so within three months of the adoption of this law, the Government is obliged to adopt a Regulation on tendering and internal advertising. And let's just take, for example, the competent court's belief that the applicant's application, that no criminal proceedings are being conducted against the applicant. So, I think that this should be taught only by a candidate who has been elected as well as by a belief in health skills. In order not to be unnecessary, it is necessary for all applicants to be burdened, to be asked by the courts, so these beliefs will now be simplified by e-citizens, and in this way we will relieve the courts. But I still think that if I say we can get the belief of health skills only by the candidate who has been chosen to, for example, be able to obtain such a belief. What I think is important in the employment of the state service to achieve maximum transparency, to see why someone is employed, to see the structure of the score, to see how many points he scored, so on the test, how many points he scored at the interview. So I am also taking the opportunity to suggest that when the regulation is adopted, think about reducing the impact of the interview, that the interview is no longer scored with 10 points but, for example, with three points. I think the interview is also important, that it's important that the employer sees the candidate he's going to hire in some way, to evaluate him. But also, that interview is not so decisive. I'm not saying there's abuse here, but I think that part of the employment process is actually the most susceptible to manipulation and abuse. What I would still like to say about the law, or the bill, and what is not in the law is the share of members of national minorities in the state administration. So the share of national minorities in the population is 7.6%. The law on the state administration system says that members of national minorities in the central authorities of the state administration have the right to be represented in proportion to their share in the population. So the law also says that when members of national minorities apply for a job in the state service, they have the right to appeal to the right of advantage. This advantage is contrary to the applicable opinion and prejudices in the public, the wrong picture acquired in the public does not exercise this right by automation. The candidate who calls for the right of advantage must meet the formal requirements, must achieve certain test successes, have points, be at the top, if not at the top to be employed, and the right of advantage thus fulfils under the same conditions, according to the law, therefore under the same conditions. This measure, a positive discrimination measure prescribed by law, has also been assessed by the Constitutional Court as authorised and the Constitutional Court considers that it is not discriminatory to others, especially not to the majority people. In spite of all this, we have a situation where the share of members of national minorities is in a slight decline every year, so that it slowly falls. In 2011, the Minister of Administration Davorin Mlakar, as part of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, adopted a reception plan exclusively for members of national minorities. So, the objective of this plan was to get by 2014. Therefore, from 2011 to 2014 achieve a level of representation of members of national minorities of 5.5% in the state administration. Unfortunately, at 31.12 last year, we have a share of national minorities in the state administration of 3.4%. So more than 2% less than some target value I think would be appropriate. When we look at the report and this report sent by the Ombudsman to the Croatian Parliament, so for 2016, then it says that members of the national minorities are not actually calling for their minority status, because they believe that this advantage is not an advantage, or that calling for the right advantage can harm them. On the other hand, the attorney general also says that he receives complaints from the majority people, believing that this is the right of the advantages that are prescribed and that the members of the national minorities are discriminated against by the majority people. And basically what do we have, therefore, of that right of advantage prescribed for members of national minorities and that right of proportionate representation? We have every year, so a slight drop in representation, we have members of national minorities who think it's not their advantage, so they don't even call on it. So we have complaints and misunderstandings of the majority people because they think that this institute is discriminatory and that the whole institute and its application is questionable. And I therefore think that, in this sense, when the promoter changes the Law on Civil Servants next time, he should consider how this right advantage is actually applied and to improve or increase the representation of all members of national minorities in the state administration. Very often, the Ministry of Administration as part of its responses and reports on why we have a few members of national minorities responding, which is one of the objective reasons why this is happening, that the decision to ban new employment is in force. This is one measure that was adopted in 2009 during the economic crisis and that employment is carried out by clause two for one, so two officials leave one is employed. I think that ban is pasture, I think it's become counterproductive to me and should be removed, especially if we take the reasons why it was brought. If we take the fact that the deficit is never smaller, here's the latest reports from the DZS, never less than when measured, we have a GDP that moves around 3% with optimistic growth projections, so I don't think there's any more formal backgrounds or real reasons why that ban should be maintained. What I would like to say in the end, so I welcome this step towards simplifying and speeding up employment in the state service, I also think that the promoter should also consider that in a similar way it is going to amend the Law on Local Employees and Landowners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37089	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37090	Dear fellow Milosevic. I want to know what you think about one important thing about state affairs, public functions, elections, so here's what you see, and now that we're going to the local elections, it's important to collect or get confirmation of impunity, right? These are responsible functions, people expect they have property cards of ours and others who compete, ask for confirmation of impunity, but I think it's an extremely important thing, so I want to know what you think about it. Should this law be installed and not yet late, the obligation to test all those who come to public functions to test for opiates or narcotics? Because I hope you'll agree with me that it doesn't matter if someone comes to public office, especially more importantly, what kind of a man is it like to eat something like that, it's not, is the test positive, negative because scientific research simply shows there are a lot of examples... I'd like your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37091	The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37092	Dear colleague Lovrinovic, you've found me a little bit, I have to admit with the question, I didn't expect this. I think a little bit goes beyond the specific subject of hiring civil servants. The fact is that we also have in the employment of the state service a request from candidates whether they are punished for criminal offences or not to be prosecuted. We now have according to the new Law on Local Elections not for all acts, but for a large number of criminal acts we ask the candidates to know that they are not legally sentenced to a prison sentence either conditionally, or unconditionally. It would be good for discussion and I think we may have missed it when we discussed the Law on Local Elections, the supplemental, exactly about asking for a certificate of impunity for candidates for local elections and... However, the question could then be asked, and your remark is justified to me because I believe that any voter who wants to vote and chooses someone in public office will say that he does not want to choose a person who is under the influence of opiates or who uses certain drugs, but I also think, for example, that he would not want to choose a person who is prone to alcoholism. In what way to test a person who is prone to alcoholism, they would not want to choose a person who is prone to domestic violence, in which, apart from example, an example of a just judgment. For example, alcoholism and opiates can only be obtained from institutions involved, so if someone has been treated. In any case, banning or restricting passive voting rights is one very sensitive thing and we have shown this and we have discussed it in local elections. Unfortunately, right now, I don't know what practice is in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37093	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37094	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. You were talking about the need, in fact, of the idea that only one who passes it further delivers conviction. I think it is and I'm interested in your position that here it may be missed to go according to why they would even provide a conviction when these are the beliefs that are within the state administration of justice and which can be obtained by official duty, so what I miss is also in this law. And here I agree with you that it's a failure to go into one reading. We don't get to discuss it, we don't get to some institutes that could send a different message. So we're talking about the admission of civil servants here, we're talking about informing the state administration, and then we say you need to deliver. So if we can't secure the information flow of documents within the framework of the state service and the state administration, then how are we going to offer it to the citizens? So that's one thing. The other thing is, you worked in the system. So on the one hand, it's said that we're going to unload the board, so it's not going to solve status issues, or it's just going to solve the status issues of officials and everything else goes to regular courts. So we are in a country where everyday workers cannot exercise their rights because justice is very slow in this context. The employers don't know what they're on because they're long-term disputes and now we're going to load them here with tens of thousands of cases of annual boards of civil servants. Well, people, I mean, instead of dispensing them and telling the citizens will be easier and easier for you to deal with, we'll be one of our internal problems, and when I say we, I'm saying we are still in the system of some state government, state administration, moving out to regular courts, and then some worker will wait another year to settle his dispute because we said we should unload the board and we'll burden the regular court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37095	The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37096	Dear fellow Milenic, and I agree with your replica most of the time, I also said in the debate, I support and believe that this bill is going in a very good direction and I think the law should be supported for this reason but I think it would be even better if the law had gone into two readings because it would certainly give us additional encouragement and encouragement to further simplify its legal solutions. Why burden the personnel to receive papers and to ask candidates for something that can be obtained under official duty? I couldn't agree more, I'm saying I think there's a part that might have been more courageous. As for this second part of what you said to the Committee on State Service, the truth is, I worked in the system, I know the system well, I know how much the Committee on State Service is overloaded, which are lags, which are human capacities. And I think it's positive that he was relieved. As they were disbursed, another part of the system was burdened with how much it was burdened. And I don't know now, I'm not that much of an expert on regular courts. I believe that the Department of Administration has asked for a statement from the Justice Department, that the Justice Department has contributed to this law and said perhaps that the courts have the capacity to do so, whether it will be so, practice and time will show. Here, I would like it to be good, for the welfare of officials who have cases such as solving so that the right to vacation and, of course, workers do not happen to them that although they are, by law, emergency procedures so that they do not happen to be further extended. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37097	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37098	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Milosevic, I have reported to you regarding... members of the national minorities and their right of advantage which has been established as an advantage under the same conditions. I simply don't see how we could find that advantage any other way than as an advantage under the same conditions because I think in any other case that advantage would be at the expense of all the other candidates of the majority people. We have, as you yourself know, because you were in the system and the right of advantage under the same conditions that all those who can do so under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. And I think it's the only way that when that advantage is on equal terms, which means when a candidate who makes an advantage on equal terms along with other candidates achieves the highest number of points, they show equal knowledge, equal expertise then in that case, a candidate who has an advantage on any basis takes precedence over that candidate. I think that's the only fair thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37099	A reply to the replica of the distinguished Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37100	Dear colleagues, I can agree with your view of the right to advantage, I absolutely understand your views. And I'm not prone to such a kind of measure myself because I think that really the state service as it says in the Constitution should be equally accessible to all equal conditions. But we have certain categories, including national minorities, among them are defenders, among them are persons with disabilities for whom there is therefore a kind of positive discrimination, one right advantage in employment but on equal terms. In my view, the problem with the defender is that there is no effective way of monitoring the employment of the defender or the application of that right of advantage. And the similar situation is for me and for national minorities, or what's good for national minorities is that they regularly monitor their annual representation, and then we know whether that representation grows or falls. What could, for example, be prescribed for minorities and is now not prescribed and, for example, for defenders, is, for example, if this right is not respected in some procedure, this legal person and the responsible person who did not respect the rights of defenders in the advantage of employment are misrepresented until, for example, in the case of members of national minorities, we do not have the situation. I think that if, for example, minority representation falls below 3% that it would be a critical situation that I don't think would be desirable. And I think that the government might suggest crisis measures that until, for example, 4.5% of state administration representation is achieved that only calling for the right of advantage be not known to be scored with one point, two points, so as one temporary measure. So when you get... that the additional measure be abolished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37101	Thank you. The closing statement will now be given by a representative of the motion's distinguished secretary of state at the Ministry of Administration, Mihovil Škarica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I'm just going to briefly refer to some suggestions and some suggestions that have been made here, which I thank you for. First of all, I would like to say that this government is aimed at thoroughly revising and reforming the official system, and that these amendments and amendments to the law are in fact a measure aimed at exactly the specific things that have been identified as problems in order to improve them. The projects that some will be prepared are in the preparation phase, which will be financed from European funds plan to develop a completely new system, i.e. a new framework of competence of state and public servants. The plan is to re-organise the employment system, plan to re-arrange and better regulate the assessment, award and promotion system. This will all be carried out through projects most of which are run by the Ministry of Administration. The human potential management system itself is worth 200 million kuna. Such projects cannot even be prepared, let alone spend overnight. So most of the suggestions that are here in this debate will be taken into account, and moreover, I think that most of them will also be incorporated into some future legal interventions in the official system not only in the Law on civil servants, but also in the Law on Local Servants as well as in the Law on how the Honorable Representative Milosevic also suggested the Laws on Payments and State and Public and Local Officials and Deputys. So I have no need to refer to individual suggestions, but to say that many of them are already being considered both in the Ministry of Administration and in other relevant bodies. I would certainly like to point out that the regulation to be adopted under this law, which has already been prepared and will be on public consultation since Monday, will provide for them to confirm, so-called. certificates of impunity are obtained only by the candidate selected in the tender procedure not by all candidates. And as soon as it is technically possible for the bodies to obtain at least one single certificate themselves, it will do so as it has been done in other cases as part of the "no paper" reform, so it will be done. As for the members of the Committee on State Services, I would like to point out that this is not a newspaper. And state officials are accepted on the basis of a public tender and received outside the state service, they also have the right to schedule in the state service after the end of the term of office. The members of the Committee on State Service, which will increase quality and thus increase efficiency, given that external members will be able to be admitted, not only will the civil servants also have that possibility because they have become civil servants by joining the committee themselves, and as other civil servants have the right to schedule after the end of their term of office in the Committee on State Service. That's how much I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37103	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37104	We are now moving on to the vote and we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 124. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Please let us vote. I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, we have decided to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would ask the proposing representative to further explain the amendment. We have Darko Nekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37105	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome you and all MPs and MPs. Therefore, after completion, the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants which was concluded on 26 April 2017. The government has submitted two amendments. The first amendment proposes to amend Article 17 amending Article 137. The Law on civil servants in such a way as to more precisely regulate the termination of the state service by force of the law when the official is 65 years old and at least 15 years of retirement, and the possibility of keeping him in service as agreed with the head of the body, taking care of the needs of the service and, at the latest, the last day of the year in which he completed those conditions. In addition, in the event of termination of the State Service, when an official is sentenced to prison or the sentence of a long-term law or a partial sentence of criminal offence, it is proposed to waive the condition, I quote: "if the proceedings are initiated under official duty", the sentence is concluded, as that conviction should be the reason for the termination of the service independently of the procedure being conducted by him under official duty, on a proposal for damages or on a private suit. It shall also be prescribed as the reason for the termination of the service when a person has been called off on parole or has been given a sentence of imprisonment for the purposes of his conduct. Amendment 2 proposes to amend Article 24 of the law, i.e. to specify in accordance with Amendment 1 to which the provisions of Article 17 are suspended until 1 January 2018. in the year, the provisions on the termination of the state service, the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement and the possibility of retaining officials in the service until the end of the calendar year. It is also proposed that this law enter into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal for which the same reasons are for the adoption of the Emergency Procedure Act, i.e. faster and simpler employment procedures for European Structural Investment Funds. Amendment 1 is in line with the Ministry of Justice and both amendments to the Office for Law and the Office of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37106	Thank you. I am now opening a debate on the government's amendments. In accordance with Article 199(2) of the debate, only representatives of representatives of the clubs may participate. Is anyone answering for a hearing? If not, then I'm closing the argument. And I am voting on the 1st amendment of the government. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 113 votes, we accept the first amendment of the government, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am now voting on the second amendment of the government. Please let us vote. I find that we are also here unanimously with 112 votes to, accept the second amendment of the government, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. The amendments were also submitted by MP Peja Grbin, so I would like to ask the applicant's representative to show the amendments submitted. Here you go, colleague Nekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37107	Thank you. Therefore, Amendment No 1, to the esteemed representative of the coat of arms is not accepted. In particular, Article 4 of the final draft law provides for the removal of the applicable Article 46. Law on civil servants. Therefore, this procedure has already been regulated by Articles 52 and 52a) of the applicable law, and the Government has proposed that the whole of Article 46 be deleted in order to speed up and simplify the procedure. By deleting Article 46, it also ceases the obligation of a state body in which a civil servant has been elected to inform the head of the body in which he has worked so far and to seek his consent to move. That, as I said, is already speeding up the process in full, which was also the basic goal of these amendments and the addition of the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37108	Thank you. A fellow coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37109	Thank you, Mr. President. So I cannot agree with the proposer's representative the future explanation given there and the explanation given in the draft law itself and subsequently on committees is only partly true because it applies exclusively to Article 46(4), but what remains unregulated when we delete the proposed article from the law is those situations which are contained in paragraphs 1 to 3. To be perfectly clear, it is a provision governing the schedule of officials selected through a public tender or an internal advert. So I think it would be a good idea for the provision in question to remain in the law, as it has been regulated so far. When we discussed it on committees, we asked your esteemed colleagues and it turns out that one segment will really remain unregulated and that some interpretations of other provisions of the law will have to be applied or applied, etc. In any event, what you have stated as a reason applies exclusively to paragraph 4 and not to Articles 1 to 3 of the Law, which is why I request a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37110	Okay. I am voting on amendments that the government does not accept. Here's your vote. I find that the amendment has not passed, it has won 71 votes against, four abstentions and 33 for. I am now voting on the second amendment. I'm sorry, my second amendment to my colleague's coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37111	Thank you. The amendment is also not accepted. In fact, the amendment of the Grbin MPs was largely accepted through this amendment of the Government earlier, not accepted in the section proposing to prescribe a set of criminal offences, which, by virtue of the law, constitute a reason for the termination of the state service. In particular, the majority of the offences referred to in the amendment in question are consumed through paragraph 2 which is set out in Article 137. The Law on civil servants amends paragraph 4 because it is a serious criminal offence for which the sentence of prison or long-term prison is imposed. Mild criminal offences are related to the performance of official duties and may be subject to the procedure for serious violation of official duty and to the sentence of termination of the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37112	Thank you, too. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37113	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague, if you have noticed, one of the proposals in my amendment has been that any state official who commits crimes against official duty or a criminal offence, for example, for the sake of such a criminal offence, ceases his term of office. Therefore, a civil servant cannot be someone who is convicted of the crime of counterfeiting regardless of the punishment that was then imposed upon him in criminal proceedings. However, given that you, with the exception of the latter, are through Amendment No 1. Governments accepted an entire amendment and intensities that was better regulated by the termination of the state service, that you included in it what was not previously in the bill itself, and it was a matter of recalling conditional convictions, etc., withdrawing the amendment and not asking for a vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37114	I thank my fellow coat of arms. We can therefore move to a vote and I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. Please vote. I find that, unanimously with 114 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants has been passed, together with amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37115	Now we will move to the next point, which is - The final bill on the assessment of the effects of regulations, second reading, P.Z. No. 109. However, before we move to that point, I would like to tell you that after the debate on this point is over, we will have the next point, and this will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 119. If you're wondering why we're skipping a few laws, it's because we haven't been able to get the opinions of all the committees we need. ... What? [[You can't hear it.]] As soon as the boards do them, we'll discuss how they arrive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37116	Excuse me, may I ask Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37118	When will the credit subsidisation point arrive?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37119	I say again depends on the board. If the board does that, it can come tomorrow morning. He can make the turn of the afternoon today. But it probably won't. It's more real tomorrow. Only committees have to do points. Without the board's opinion, it wouldn't be right to discuss it here. We talk so much about how everything should focus on the work of the board, and then we have to stick to it. We talked so much, and we passed the law about how we have to punish ourselves when we're not here, and at no time were we more than one percent. But that's another topic. Okay. Let's go, it'll drastically improve me when the law comes into force. So now we're going to cross over as I said on the final bill on the impact assessment of regulations, second reading, P.Z. No. 109. The draft law shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy, for legislation, I'm sorry. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Natasa Mikush Zigman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. The Ministry of Economy, I'm sorry, I'm looking at this. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37120	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here, let me propose, i.e. present the final draft law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations. On 16 March this year, this esteemed House discussed the proposal for a law on the assessment of the effects of the rules in the first reading, and on 17 March it reached a conclusion on the adoption of the bill. We have considered all the comments and proposals from the debate, and have drawn up the Final Proposal for the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations. Compared to the text of the draft law which was first read in the Croatian Parliament in this final draft of the law, there were some differences as a result of respecting the proposal and the opinion of the Committee on Legislatives and the proposals of MPs presented in the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Respecting the proposal of the Legislative Committee, it is prescribed that the procedure for assessing the effects of the regulations be implemented on the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Assembly adopted in connection with the confirmation of the international contract. It is also appropriate to give due consideration to the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists that, when reference is made to the draft draft law, the statement of the assessment of the effects of the regulations is also attached. In the debate in the Croatian Parliament, there are also certain principles of objections and proposals from MPs which the applicant did not accept with appropriate explanations. Here I would just like to briefly remind the main facts related to the proposal for a law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations. In the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, there has been a system of assessment of the effects of the regulations since 1 January 2012, since the entry into force of the Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations, and this law is subject to a simpler and more understandable and more transparent procedure itself. In the current law, the procedure relating to the draft statement proposal lasted at least 45 days, and the further procedure relating to the drafting of the statement proposal and the draft bill was further 15 to 30 days. The step now of drawing up a draft statement proposal has been abandoned, and the overall process of assessing the effects of the rules can be completed within 30 days, thereby significantly shortening the time needed to implement this procedure. A significant role is also given to assess the impact of draft laws on the small economy by conducting the test on small and medium-sized enterprises and by assessing the administrative cost of laws, regulations, the use of so-called ‘registration’. ESC methodologies. Each draft law establishing the Government of the Republic of Croatia must be implemented, firstly, by the ex ante procedure of assessing the effects of the regulations, and depending on the results of that procedure and a detailed assessment of the effects of the regulations. This law covers direct economic, social impacts, labour and labour market impacts, environmental protection, human rights protection and competition assessment, and all of these effects are analysed, taking into account the addresses of these regulations themselves. The draft law retains the obligation of the government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a legislative plan each year containing all draft laws to be proposed to the Croatian Parliament during the year, including laws that bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in line with EU legislation. The obligation to carry out an impact assessment shall also be introduced in cases where the draft draft law is exempt from carrying out an assessment of the effects of the regulations, since it is adopted in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, some hastily removing the threat of damage or of protecting, in particular, economic or social interest. In such exceptional cases, there is an obligation to carry out an impact assessment within two years of the entry into force of the law. What do we expect to enable this law? We therefore expect that it will lead to a reduction of unplanned legislative activities, a simplification and a shorter duration of the process of impact of the regulations as I have previously explained, and then to establish possible obstacles to the business of entrepreneurs and to the impact on the status of citizens, so when carrying out the impact assessment process. It will certainly improve inter-resorship coordination in the process of drafting regulations or laws and raise the level of responsibility of the state administration body. The ultimate objective of this law is certainly to contribute to a stimulating business environment, to greater legal certainty and to strengthening the rule of law, to reducing administrative costs for citizens and business entities, while at the same time ensuring the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, personal and political freedoms and rights, and economic, social and cultural rights. Thank you very much, and I hope you will support the adoption of this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37121	Thank you very much. You asked for a word or a replica? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Let's finish the first replica of the distinguished MP Batinić and then we'll have a break again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37123	Thank you, Vice President. It is an article 17 which defines the compensation of the impact assessment of the regulations and what is controversial and what we have proposed in the first reading to more precisely try to define which legislative proposals are involved, whether it is the defence, we have the basis and in the Constitution, whether it is the prevention of natural disasters, or perhaps the case of this latest bill that we have passed in the Assembly lex Agrokor that part is controversial. [[/Intruder Reiner:... breaks not only in the morning you abound but also during the day. Here you are, dear representative Batinić.]] I think we should define more precisely. And on top of that, why a two-year-old? Why a two-year term? Why can't you do that, it's our proposal to cut that deadline. Because if the situation is so, so to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that can be, 'let's say one preliminary impact assessment do, perhaps in such a way and a final assessment of the effects of the regulations that when, let's say when assumptions are made, when certain relevant indicators and data are obtained that can be done. Because I believe that neither the Government as a proposing, initial promoter or parliament will propose a certain legislative proposal but does not know for what reason. So I think maybe we should install in Article 17 and a preliminary assessment on the basis that is also an exception to ex post evaluations, perhaps in that way. And I think this two-year term is more than, it's too long. It's simply because I believe it's technical because if it can be interpreted for two years only when the law comes into force and then we're going to watch what we did or didn't cause, maybe some damage, the consequences of the law that we've passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37124	Thank you very much. I would ask all my colleagues that if they already want to give such pre-election speeches in the breaks of course they have the right to, let's concentrate them right at the beginning because if we really start to do this all day long to have breaks to express any of our views, I'm afraid that Parliament's reputation will be reduced even more. I would now open a debate on the final draft of the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations and the first one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37125	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. I won't be long because we've been discussing this bill recently in our first reading. We've had a very extensive debate, but I'm going to try to briefly sublime what's most important in this bill. The introduction of a system of assessment of the effects of the rules was aimed at ensuring the development of more efficient and quality legislation, so as to achieve the objectives set at lower costs and without unnecessary obstacles. In order to analyse the effects of the law before the drafting of this proposal, it has been established that in the previous five years, in fact, a slightly smaller analysis has been carried out for the period from 2013 to 2015 and that the results obtained by the analysis have been defeated because it is evident that most of the laws have been adopted in an emergency procedure without carrying out the procedure to assess the effects of the regulations, that there have been non-compliance with the annual normative plans, and so that many expert lawmakers who have been required to launch formal public consultation have done so and have done so and have only increased the transparency of the lawmaking process. It is certainly not commendable and not good that it does not lead to legal uncertainty in society such as the way we have passed the law and in the debate at first reading very detailedly. And I therefore believe that this law, which has above all respected all the shortcomings we have had so far and which has therefore found better solutions in this proposal, which will, above all, speed up the process of assessing the effects of the regulations itself and shorten it to a total of about 30 days, compared to the procedure that has taken place between 60 and 90 days, and many times such a long-term procedure has been refused by those who were to implement the procedure because there was a lot of times missing time for such a procedure to be implemented. That is why we believe that this reduction of procedures is good and that it will in practice lead to a much more effective application of this law. What is also good and what has been discussed in the first reading and those that have been acceptable have been appreciated. I also have to say that it is good that for those laws for which there is an exception to the adoption that can be passed without carrying out the regulation's impact assessment process, there is still an obligation to make an assessment of the effects of the regulation later in 2 years, whether or not that deadline is too long, something that has been said by counterpart Batinić in the replica, we can consider and always be judged as too long and justification and arguments that it is not, that it is sufficient. Of course, the assessment can be carried out earlier within that deadline, but I think we have to leave enough time for that analysis to be made and it's much better to be done than not done at all. What is also significant and what we want to point out is that the regulation's impact assessment process will actually be visible through an analysis of direct effects on certain areas such as the economy, the small economy, labour markets, social welfare, pension system, health, human rights protection and competition protection, with the aim of selecting an optimal legal solution. The obligation is also introduced to assess the direct effects of draft laws on individual addresses and especially on citizens, families, households, micro, small, medium and large entrepreneurs, family farms, cooperatives, workers, pensioners, service providers in certain economic branches, consumers, Croatian defenders, minorities and the like. What am I saying? It is important to understand that the aim of this law is not only to normically carry out an analysis but what will ultimately be the effect of every single law adopted on those to whom this law applies, means to all, especially those to the least groups and the most vulnerable groups in society. For all of these reasons, I think the bill is good and the HDZ club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37126	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the MOST on behalf of which the distinguished representative Tomisalv Panenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37127	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, and I welcome Secretary of State Mikush Zigman with an associate. About this law we had in the first very high-quality debate where we practically all agreed that there was a high level of need to pass this law. What I am particularly pleased about is that the debate was not only agreed but also constructive and that there was also a resolute ministry and government that accepted a lot of allegations, remarks and proposals within the debate. So here, on behalf of the MOST Club, I also thank you for accepting the proposal that the statement of the estimated effects is also being delivered to the parliamentary representatives within the framework of the draft law so that we can also get acquainted with these effects and of course more quality, perhaps even notice within the very impact assessment that it will also be reflected in some areas that are thoughtlessly missed. What we see is that both accepted and by the Committee on Legislatives is related to the adoption of, in fact, the confirmation of international contracts. So far, we've discussed such contracts primarily but we've adopted them as such, but the effect of course on the Republic of Croatia, on our society, may be different than the global assessment. There are a number of laws here which, precisely the kind of international agreements we're discussing we have in, so here's the deal with Canada so-called. The CETA then mentions exactly this TITIP which is now in some jam, all that we need to do here and here and evaluate one expert and we will have a better debate. That proposal, which was not accepted and certainly creates problems for us, is the retroactive effect of certain regulations where, despite the efforts of both the ministries and the professional services of the Government and the ministers who, in the end, make a decision at the government level, it goes through the committees in the Parliament and the whole debate that maybe there is no connection and a certain retroactive effect that may sometimes not be direct but is indirect and real because we think that maybe even in future we should find a model to avoid exactly retroactiveity. Because all this ends very infamously, means time is spent, for the sake of both the ministries and his professional services and the government and the professional services and the Parliament, all of us, we pass the law, then the Constitutional Court makes a decision that it is unconstitutional, unconstitutional and returns us to the beginning. What we have more for, here I would point out and one problem is that it is mutually consistent, that is, the non-compliance of the law where, of course, we have a large number of laws on which we should take care of how they might apply to each other, which is sometimes not the main subject but also a controversial subject, and our officers who need to apply such laws find themselves in doubt and rightly ask often and seek advice that the law applies. And those who are subject to such laws are called, of course, always to themselves who are more favorable and rightly. And that's where we create a certain misunderstanding, that's what it is, for example. We had a law here, here's a personal experience of the Public Procurement Act, where I was essentially alone and I had predicted that public procurement also applies to so-called. insurance brokers, meaning insurance arrangements must also be implemented through public procurement. But then, that part was left out of the proposal that went into this by the minister when we adopted him where it was said that the other one had a law that regulated it in a special way. So here, this is one of the examples of what I personally know, but of course there are other examples, so you should see how certain topics can be perfectly articulated and not come to a situation where there is a misunderstanding about the application of legislation. What I would say in the final name of the MOST Club, of course, is that the impact assessment when it goes through the entire procedure of the government will be done. There are also professional services that this part will be able to do. They're also humane to say and by the number of people primarily and with knowledge trained to do so. But we also have cases where the bills themselves come from parliamentarians, where they try with their knowledge and problems that they see in the field to pass it on to proposals. It may be long for them to wait for the government to accept it, or perhaps it is a position that the current government does not consider a priority. Of course, such laws would have to go through the whole procedure, and then we are limited by the capacity of the motionor, the parliamentary representatives, the services at their disposal, which are insufficient. And then... On the side, perhaps we should really consider establishing a slightly stronger coordination, that such suggestions whether the existing service of the ministries and the government can be available to us and give a professional assessment of such proposals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or maybe to find a model of how we'll be able to perform these functions here. Of course, against the creation of some new parallel systems myself, so I would prefer that there be one model that will be agreed between the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister, so that in future time we have the possibility of not only proposing laws but also respecting the whole procedure. Because without an impact assessment, we will not have quality proposals and therefore the club of representatives of MOST will support this proposal and I congratulate you on the work that has been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37128	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of HNS, HSU on behalf of which will speak the distinguished representative of Bozica Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37129	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club, the HSU, supported this law in its first reading, because we think he's good. In fact, we had such a law adopted in 2012 or with the application of 1.1.2012. Normally, this one is improved and that everything good is to be accepted, so it is suggested that the process is reduced to 30 days, which we consider to be good compared to the previous 45 plus 15, so it often spread really up to 3 months. It is good that many of the comments and suggestions that were accepted in the first reading have been accepted. However, I would even rather that some more of our comments were accepted, and it is related to Article 17 that we have already discussed, which is the compensation of the impact assessment of the rules and there is that deadline for up to 2 years. What are we supposed to avoid that for? We really only use in exceptional cases, because we ourselves can be found when a certain regulation reflects on us or on one of our own, and we didn't predict it at all, and then we're going to analyze it. And in fact, all these regulations are laid down for the sake of the people, for our citizens and for our masters. And we're not going to make an amendment, but I think we really need to avoid these cases so there's no such situation or there's as few of them as possible. What was stated in the previous law, and in this too is what are the goals. The objectives are really fine, which is that normative solutions promote a business environment, strengthen the rule of law, reduce costs, ensure openness and transparency of the legislative process. We see what are the obstacles that are possible for entrepreneurs and citizens by passing this law and what would be particularly important, and this is the inter-resorial coordination of central bodies that should certainly be increased. But when we go into practice, when we see what it looks like, the effects are actually very well defined. It is an assessment of the economic impact that defines the macro-economic environment, a small economy, obstacles, business, research. Then we have social impacts where demographic trends are included, social care, then an impact assessment on work and the labour market where employment is involved, and then a pension system. Then an environmental impact assessment where we have climate, air protection and use of air, water, soil, management of natural resources, waste, recycling and everything that belongs to that part. Then an impact assessment on the protection of human rights is primarily equality and everything related to it. And an impact assessment on competition. I will, in fact, remain on that impact assessment of competition, i.e. an assessment of the economic impact that I consider very, very connected. We make laws, before that we have public counselling. However, these public consultations often come with many remarks and suggestions from professional associations that are generally not accepted or accepted very, very little. I believe that there should be far more cooperation in this section because it is these professional associations and associations that live with these problems that can contribute most to the development of a quality law, where individual economic operators will not then be damaged. We had the same thing now, specifically, in this law, where the HOC proposed that they be included. The answer was that I could be but in another way, which is fine, but I think there's really too little coordination. We now have a draft bill on the municipal economy which was the same at the public debate from 16.3. to 15.4. there were 26 comments primarily on funeral activities because they were the most relevant ones. We had a case where that previous law that was six years ago, these people, that group, they were horrified in their rights. I already talked about it once because the law was passed that all units of local self-government that have activity in their register, and activities do not need to call a tender to carry out that activity. This has just led us to an unequal position and this has had a huge impact on competition because many small economic operators have failed. And that's why everything that's good is supported by us and so will the HNS-HSU club support this law, but I note that it would really be better to respect these very opinions from public debates and professional associations because they can help us greatly to assess the effects of these regulations that we are making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37130	Thank you very much. We will now move on to an individual debate which was attended by distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37131	Thank you very much, Vice President. State secretary with an associate. I want to actually join here as chairman of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee on this proposed law. First of all, I think it's good that it's in two readings and it's for the second reading that certain remarks and suggestions have been accepted that came from this House. And when I look at the law I see that it brings one order and if we stick to it and if we stick to all this, we'll have a very arranged system of law-making and billing. What is our situation not only today but I would say a dozen years ago, the main feature of our legislation is the quick adoption of laws and the rapid amendment of laws. We knew the law in one year to bring and change it twice, and that means that there was a lack of that impact assessment when we entered into some legislative process. Also, what marks is an emergency legal procedure that is not good, but I would say that in this year it is quite different compared to these previous years and that we have this year that we have a law in regular procedure where between the two readings it is quite possible to correct the provisions of the law and that is what we need to strive for. It is very good to also bring impact strategies, to bring also the legislative plan that we see that in the last three years this plan has been realised and then on stage but some 30% has been realized. So the laws were passed beyond the plan according to the needs they were. We, as a country negotiating EU membership, were in a position to join a number of reforms. These numerous reforms required that laws be passed and, on this side, it is not surprising that we were very, very active as far as legislation was concerned for the last ten years. Today, we have been in a situation in the last few years that we are again harmonising our legislation with EU legislation and which also requires the adoption of a number of laws. What I want to point out here is the problem that these laws are very often written in some kind of text that they address excessively and don't understand. I think that the life of those European directives, those EU decisions that we make through our laws need one participation from all people who participate in certain processes in segments where these laws change, segments where these laws need to function. It is not enough just to have a group of translators to translate it, but to have it within such groups and those who know and have the basic knowledge of the area covered by the law. A word very often can be determined and can completely change the meaning of the provision and the meaning of the law itself. It is clear to all of us that it is difficult to write a law that will be so propheticly set that it can cover all the situations that will happen in life, it is really impossible. However, it is important to strive for as many situations as possible that can happen in life by law. It is therefore very important to have quality working groups within bodies working on professional draft laws. These working groups should cover all those stakeholders who have knowledge, so also from associations, and from the university academic community and from those practitioners who implement the laws in action, and thus each will make some contribution and their vision from the position from which he looks at that law, which needs to be stated in it that we do not get any legal gaps in that law or that we get some bad definitions that have nothing to do with real life. I often have to say that in the Legislative Committee and probably also in the Office for Law Working with the Government, we often have situations where we actually warn some things, where we do some things before the very procedure here in the Assembly and we see that we here in the Parliament have very often a large number of amendments, not only formal but very often those that actually change the content and essence of the law itself, which is welcome and that is fine. However, laws need to come as well as possible in a better form, they need to be done by qualified good working groups that are competent. They should and should be led to know exactly who has worked on certain legal solutions and yet as far as this plan and the legislative action programme itself is concerned, it is clear that there will always be some situations that are difficult to predict and that ad hoc law needs to be made and let it into the parliamentary procedure. I am hoping that this law that is up to the good, which introduces order, which introduces a system, which introduces a procedure that assesses the effects of the regulations that it will achieve these goals will mean that we have laws that are of quality, which can predict everything that will happen in life. And so here I will support the law, hoping that it will produce exactly what it does with these goals and states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37132	Thank you very much. The replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bošnjakovic, I agree with you. As we have witnessed in recent years inflation of the bill often times and incompletes, we have had the opportunity to testify that a certain law has been amended three to four times over the years. Thus, the fourth amendment was almost entirely derogated or amended by the provisions which were in the first law which was originally adopted. This has been tried to show that this has been done all together because of the need to comply with EU legislation and which has often not been the case. In recent times, you have said this yourself more and more is the law, almost all the laws that the Government is referring to, and you see it in the agenda, which is a consolidated, consolidated agenda which is on the table that the government is normally going into regular procedure with first and second reading unless clearly it is about ratifications of individual conventions, international agreements or if it is really laws that apply to the EU, although we know that we have so far in the past few months, even the laws that we have brought together with the EU, some of them have conducted a discussion in two readings. But what was absurd was that it was just an opposition that had been against us to go with the emergency procedure, which I say was not the case because it was beautifully seen from the proposed agenda and from the consolidated agenda that the opposition with some laws over the past few months had gone into emergency procedure. So we have this approach, which is that the laws go into the regular procedure practically led to today's debate in the agenda of the Parliament almost always in two readings which significantly contributes to the quality of the law. And here I agree with you, therefore, that the regular procedure, the two readings of the law, are making better legal solutions, that parliamentary representatives of them can be manifested and that this together contributes to better legal solutions. Even on some cases we seem to be going to third reading, we went to third reading, which is one of the ways to include that Parliament participates as much in the making of laws as possible, and not simply to be, confirms the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37134	Thank you. The honourable representative Drazen Bosnjakovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37135	Yeah, you're right, there's actually a lot of cases when we're in the year when the law was passed already, I don't know after a few months you had to go change which in any case isn't good or for the security of the legal order because there's no one here anymore who knows what's going on. There is one example, for example, of the Law on Criminal Procedure, which came into force in 2008, so far at least once each year has changed. And now I'm asking you from that initial text that was worth 2008 today in 2017 is actually nothing more, everything has changed. So today we have some kind of completely different law than the one we've passed and changed year after year. It is for those who need to apply it, for the citizens, one really area of legal uncertainty. I agree with you, and I will continue to take up the work of this Parliament that our laws are going into regular procedure because regular procedures are two readings, so between the two readings analysis of everything, all the remarks that are highlighted here and in the public that are highlighted and only after that second reading. I think we're doing well with this practice and that most of the laws in this House that are in this mandate and in this session are going into regular procedure. Of course there are reasons when the law must go into emergency but emergency procedure is an exception and until this call is actually an exception was a regular procedure and an emergency was some common practice which is certainly not good. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37136	Thank you very much. And finally, the word will now be taken by the esteemed Natasha Mikush Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37137	Thank you very much. Appreciable MPs, esteemed MPs. Here, let me briefly refer to the conclusions that you have made regarding the text of the bill itself. As regards Article 17 and the implementation of the ex post assessment of the effects of the rules, therefore the proposal was to specify in more detail the situations in which such... Assessing, the effects of the regulations are carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, it is possible to reduce the time limit to less than two years and carry out a preliminary assessment in such situations. What I would like to say is that the law does, by law itself, therefore, because this is a broader normative framework, we would not be able to predict each of these situations, and we believe that this text of the bill therefore covers possible situations that may arise. And certainly what is important is highlighted, and it is also related to this second proposal to be implemented, so also in these regulations, the previous procedure for assessing the effects of the regulations. And then, in fact, it is exempted from further proceedings if, in that previous assessment, it is concluded that, therefore, there are justified reasons for the adoption of the law in an urgent procedure, in a more urgent procedure, and within two years, therefore, an ex post assessment is carried out, a detailed assessment of the effects of the rules. As for the two-year deadline itself, as noted in the presentation of the esteemed representative Jelkovac, this is the maximum time limit, and the assessment can actually be carried out within a period shorter than that maximum period of two years. Regarding the issue of retroactivity, therefore retroactivity is not resolved by this law, it is a constitutional category. So, in fact, she wasn't specifically processed in the text of this law. With regard to the mutual harmonisation of the laws we apply, here we hold that, indeed, by applying, that is, implementing this law, we are working to strengthen inter-resor coordination and that exactly, through the implementation of the regulation's impact assessment process, it will ensure that the rules are in line and thus will strengthen legal certainty itself. As regards the proposals for the laws that you esteemed MPs, therefore, I would like to suggest that Article 18(4), which says that the assessment of the effects of the regulations is also implemented on the basis of the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, which have been adopted, is therefore related to the functioning of the Government in the EU institutions. Therefore, the Assembly may require that this very procedure be carried out to assess the effects of the regulations. And in that case, then the government is in charge, so the competent resolution ministry for the implementation of this procedure. We agree, of course, with the conclusions that it is necessary to include as much as possible, so professional associations, to respect the proposals that come from their side, since they are therefore those who, in practice and best see how a certain law works, or what effect it has. And, of course, by means of a regulation adopted under this law, we will develop a more detailed methodology for the implementation of certain or impact assessments in certain areas provided for by the law. Finally, I would like to point out that, of course, we also agree that it is necessary to train and set up working groups that will work on the very proposals of legislative acts and in this sense have already been implemented, so the systematic education of civil servants working on regulations. And that education will be intensified in the coming period, so we will be very active, so we will work on the education of law-writing officers. So, education will also be done from nomotechnics. And we certainly think that by doing that, we're actually going to do it the best we can and we're going to achieve the goals that this law provides for. Finally, let me thank you on behalf of the promoter for the support you have shown on behalf of the clubs and as individual representatives to this bill. And I believe that by applying it, we will get the effects that are expected by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37138	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37139	The following is the Final Proposal for the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 109. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 108 votes for, without abstentions and 4 against the passed Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37140	And now we're going to move on to the - Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 119. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Dominister, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Christian Turkalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37141	Dear President, respected MPs, the Penal Code was originally passed in 2007. He suffered changes in 2013, twice, and in 2015 again. In 2015, the amendments went towards trying to create a legal framework so that we do not have to constantly change it, which means when European rules are passed that prescribe penalties that are different from those set up in the frameworks of the Criminal Code, that we have provisions that will enable it. And he covered up until then all the applicable European legislation and what we had information that was being prepared. In the meantime, however, new EU legal rules have taken place. For example, the fourth Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing can be allocated primarily. Now don't let me read the whole name any further. Most of the Directive, unlike the solutions we made in 2015, happened the following. So in 2015 we had a situation that such an exception from the existing framework was linked to independent regulators. However, this directive has shown that such bodies as an authorised prosecutor also appear to be other bodies, so the authorities of the state administration, and therefore this framework has become too narrow for us. We therefore propose to amend Article 33 in such a way as to allow in paragraph 10 of this Article a breach for which a legally binding EU act provides for a certain range of fines or a general minimum or a general maximum of fines or a way of calculating fines by means of a special law for the offender of the offence may prescribe and impose a fine in respect of which the general restriction referred to in paragraphs 1 to 9 of Article 33 does not apply. Violent law. The relevant provision of Article 33a on the amounts and method of calculation of the fines cannot be parallel to that of the amendment to Article 33a and is therefore deleted as an excess. The other amendments and additions were made or necessary for the purpose of amending the provision of Article 33(10) and the erasure of Article 33(a). Given the number of possible variations and the combination of a certain amount and method of calculation of the amount of fines, any and any staticly-set legislative framework in this respect is not a guarantee that it would be sufficient for the future request of a future EU legal binding act to be amended again, in any case. In fact, the domestic legislative framework is neither a defence nor an obstacle to different solutions from the European acquis because the Republic of Croatia, as well as other full-fledged EU members, is obliged to transpose legally binding EU acts in its domestic right, so in any case they would be forced to amend the Criminal Law. According to Article 288. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU legal acts of the EU are regulations, directives, decisions, recommendations and opinions of which only recommendations and opinions do not have the character of legally binding acts. It is important to note that this legislative proposal does not actually comply with the legislation to bring legislation into line with specific regulations. Only here is the assumption that the future rules to be adopted for the implementation of European rules can have a flexible legal framework for the imposition of fines that different bodies can impose. Therefore, a flexible legislative solution is proposed to allow specific laws to be transposed legally binding EU acts while at the same time preventing the legislative necessity of permanent and frequent amendments to the Criminal Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37142	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lits, the esteemed representative of Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37143	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, and as the Secretary of State has said, this is not a classic alignment with EU legislation, but a presumption of how to impose penalties on mechanisms and in which it is stated that these mechanisms and frameworks are laid down by this law so that, in future changes in European acts, we should not have to change the law every time. So here we also have to do with that general maximum, either for a minimum or for a certain percentage determining the penalty of convicts' income, which I think is in some way and just to give someone a sentence in relation to his options as much as he can in principle bear it. Infringement legislation with us certainly has one of its own history, and we can follow exactly how it developed. I remember the time, so maybe even with a little nostalgia, I remember the time when we were being punished for traffic or something, and then, with one complaint, we could put the whole procedure into stalemate relatively quickly because the limitation deadlines were short, and on the other hand, the High Court of Violation was pretty crowded with these cases and filing even though the formal objection was enough for the matter to go into obsolescence. It's past time and I say we can remember with nostalgia. However, today it is also important that those legislative changes that went in the direction of the recognition of the offence in a place where accepting the possibility of paying half of the suspended sentence in place or within seven or eight days, I do not know now exactly what the time limit is, in this way leading to the fact that the misdemeanors in our courts from year to year are quite left without a case and that it is dealt with quite like this on the very spot or within seven, eight days, which also provides us with certain resources in the justice system itself. As far as I've seen, there are announcements from the Ministry of Justice that there would be a certain and reorganization in the network of our judicial bodies, and I would have to say that because if there aren't enough cases here, we have a very high level of quality people who have all the professional qualifications there, so we have passed a judicial exam that has experience of trial, the experience of having debates with the parties, and with some minor education through the Judicial Academy, we can get one part of the people who can deploy on these items that have been burdened on us for many years now, and I think that the city of Zagreb and Split and these four large cities need to measure exactly how many cases are, and that in this way we can actually look for solutions that would go to where we don't have to be able to move it in a place where we can't be able to be able to carry out a lot where we can't really be able to do something. As far as I've seen if these are the directions in which the ministry is going I think it's good because the judiciary definitely and here in this hall we've heard very often that it's very good, there's dissatisfaction in both the public and amongst us MPs about the fact that the cases are still slowly resolved, that there are still a large number of pending cases in our courts, that these proceedings should certainly be speeded up. And on that side should be kept in mind if there are such reserves, if there are such options why not enter one such one, into one such reform. Infringement procedure, let's remember a little time, we even had a situation when you were both both in charge of the offence committed and the crime. This is, of course, recognised by one European Court of Human Rights decision, and after that, we have harmonised legislation in fact so that this would no longer happen because it is really pointless for the same act to be conducted in the context of a criminal proceedings before a criminal court and, on the other hand, to do the same thing before a municipal court in connection with criminal proceedings. Nor is it, of course, just that someone responds in either procedure. That's pretty neat. And as far as I know there's a lot of cases, there was one, one big one, what would say is the number of pending cases in the infringement trial itself, and it's quite reduced so now that this procedure is going into some kind of, I'd say new frameworks of legislation that we have, it's going some kind of faster rhythm after all. And we see that this segment is very significant. There's almost no law that we're passing here without him having any of those misdemeanor provisions that prescribing actually those illegal behaviors, they determine the penalties. In that sense, he's just welcome to this law and I think he's very well attached to the bill that was the point, this one before that, the impact assessments of this law are good. But again, it is commendable to the promoter that he has decided, however, that we do not have to rush anywhere, but that in peace until the second reading, we still assess what effects he will have, what will happen with that law and what will happen. But I think this direction the Department of Justice is going is good. And here's why the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law, of course, in the first reading and for second reading if there are any changes, we'll analyze and we'll take a stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37144	Thank you very much. Since no one else has answered that, then I conclude the debate on this point, we will vote when the conditions are met. We will now take a break until the usual 15 hours and then proceed with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory holidays of mobile workers and registration arrangements in road transport, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 30. So today, with that law when we discuss it, we will conclude today's work. Thank you very much and have a nice meal. It's the 13th.06 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37145	The following is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 119. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1.A proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Act, 2. Any comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law." Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 95 votes for, 15 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The next item is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Time and Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Traffic Recording Devices, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 70. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr Tomislav Mihotić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37147	Mr. President, esteemed MPs. The draft law was adopted on 8 February 2017. The only change compared to then presented law is the amount of fines to exceed the driving time in certain cases. That remark was incorporated into the final draft law. This applies to point 18 of the amendment, i.e. Point 46 of the applicable law. And the penalty that was then defined in the amount of 3 to 6000 kuna has been adjusted to an amount of 2 to 5000 kuna. So that's the only change compared to what was presented to the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37148	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. Since there are no representatives of the club MOST independent lists, the next Club of Representatives who appeared is a club of representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. Since they are not available either, the next club of MPs who called for the debate is the HDZ Representatives' Club. She's a representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37149	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Working Time Act, mandatory breaks of mobile workers and registration devices in road transport National Journal 75/13 and 36/15 contain provisions on working time and mandatory vacations of mobile workers and drivers in road transport, driving time, breaks, rest periods of drivers carrying out road transport of goods and passengers, road transport recording devices, tachographs, conditions and procedures of control, body competences and their powers, official records, and infringement provisions. I reiterate that the law currently in force also lays down the conditions which must be met by legal or natural persons to carry out the verification and examination of the installation, examination, repair and decommissioning of tachographs as well as the selection process of a legal person who has received the public authority of issuing cards, which is the Agency for Commercial Activity d.o.o. The legislation also improves the working conditions of drivers and other mobile workers carrying out road freight and passenger transport and introduces control of their work for road safety through the use of analogue and digital tachographs in the course of motor vehicle management and driver operation. At the first reading of this law, I said that the Labour Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers and road registration devices need to be amended and complemented in order to further comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquiss of the European Union. I would also remind you that, due to the entry into force of Commission Regulation 2016/403 of 18 March 2016 laying down a common list of categories, types and degrees of serious infringements of the rules in public road transport, it is necessary in the current law to regulate infringements in the manner laid down in that Regulation. The proposal for a law in the first reading proposed the classification of infringements of the rules according to the severity of injuries to the most serious injuries, very serious injuries, serious injuries and minor injuries, and thus determined the offences and the level of fines for those offences. The proposal for a first-reading law also complemented the list of European Union regulations by Regulation No 1266/2009 harmonising this law with regard to time limits for the adjustment of second- and third-generation digital tachographs with technical progress. As the proposal for a law in the first reading complemented the provisions of the now applicable law, which provides for conditions that must be met by a workshop for installation, verification, and repair of tachographs with new conditions, and offers new additional reasons for removing the permit for the work of a workshop for tachographs. The first reading also covered the following basic issues, general provisions, instruments of coordination, complementing the conditions to be met by workshops for obtaining work permits, installation, testing, verification and examination of tachographs, and repair and disassembly. There are also new additional reasons for abolishing the work of workshops. Infringement provisions shall be regulated according to the type and severity of the infringements in respect of the classification which may lead to the loss of the good reputation of the road carrier. We certainly need to think that future conditions of driving and other mobile workers are improving, and we need to ensure that their work is controlled for road safety, so this final bill is on track. The main thing to mention, and as it says in the proposal ahead of us, is that the difference between the first reading of the final draft of the law of content in Article 18 of the final proposal of the law is i.e. to reduce the amount of fines in cases of excessive driving time, particularly when it comes to employers. The fine of three to six thousand kunas is reduced to two to five thousand kuna. It is well mentioned again, as I said in my first reading, that there is still a big problem with working on black, fake tachographs, blackmailing on salaries, i.e. a minimum wage application, and the rest on your hands. A large number of drivers are still involved in traffic with old analogue tachographs, and we know that much more and easier to fake tachographs whose drivers show that they are rested and that they can continue driving. Until 2009 vehicles with analogue tachograph could be imported into the Republic of Croatia, we hope that by increasing the number of road traffic inspectors' supervision and these amendments to the law will achieve the problem of mobile workers and improve the conditions in their work, as no profit of the employer can be more important than human lives. I would remind myself again that drivers are also one of the most common professions that goes beyond the Republic of Croatia, I believe that this figure will be reduced according to the government's programme and that this government will do everything possible to make young and professional people as little as possible leave the Republic of Croatia. In view of all of the above, the HDZ Representatives' Club will accept this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Traffic Recording Devices.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37150	Representative Anton Kleman reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37151	Here, colleague, you said one truth now in the end, it offered me one little comment and a replica. Knowing some of the owners of transport companies, here they are in the conversation I came to the conclusion that definitely drivers are today one of the biggest problems in the Republic of Croatia with catering workers and workers in tourism. So he's big on these people, the man tells me he has a company of hundreds of trucks that now he's missing 30 workers or drivers in his company. So it's an alarming figure and I hope that this law will in some way motivate people to stay, to have their rights, not to be exhausted on long tours it certainly won't contribute to these current crowds at the border with Slovenia and entering the Schengen area, but in any case, I hope that this regulation that will solve exactly the driver's exhaustion and, in some ways, cause and potential danger for drivers and other road users themselves, that this job will be much more attractive and that in some ways people will decide to stay working in the Republic. So I wonder if that law regulates that question?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37152	The answer to the replica of MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37153	Thank you very much. Here as I said it means this law will improve the working conditions of the driver and try to reduce the departure of our drivers outside the Republic of Croatia because statistics at the Employment Office say that in the last four years mobile workers or drivers have left the Republic of Croatia. And there's also road surveillance, the control of road traffic inspectors, that we'll allow our drivers to have better working conditions and that we have greater safety on our roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-26-0.u37154	Since there are no other replicas I hereby conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. With this today we end today's part, and the next item tomorrow morning at 9.30 is the Proposal for a Law on subsidisation of housing loans, first reading, P.Z. Number 126. Thank you. Session adjourned at 3:15 p.m. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Labour Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 70. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 106 votes for, 5 abstentions and 3 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, mandatory breaks of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport.
