ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46966	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I welcome the President of the Government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, Vice-President, Vice-President and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with the regular autumn session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I invite you at the beginning of the session to pay tribute to the homeland by performing anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland". - The performance of "Beautiful Our Homeland" - Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to pay tribute with a minute of silence to all those who have contributed to the creation of an independent and free Croatia, Croatian defenders and all who have given their lives for their country. - A moment of silence - May their glory be eternal and thank them! We're going back to work. The 4th session of the Croatian Parliament was delivered by electronic means. Any objections to the record? Since there are no objections I find that we adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We're moving on to the session's agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. The final draft agenda was submitted by electronic means. In the final draft agenda, I included five new points under regular numbers 19, 22, 25, 30 and 34. These are: 19. Final proposal of the Animal Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 147. 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution resulting from research and exploitation of the epicontinental belt, seabed and marine underworld with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 181. 25. Final draft law on international private law, second reading, P.Z. No. 141. 30. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol No. 15. amending and supplementing the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 180. 34. (a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials. b) Proposal for a decision appointing part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have the necessary quorum, and we can rightly decide 121 MPs have applied. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure will be decided on the draft laws for which the Proposer proposes the adoption of an emergency procedure. These are points 22, 30, 51 and 74 of the final draft agenda. These are, therefore, the points: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against contaminants arising from research, exploitation of the epicontinental belt, seabed and marine underworld with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 181. 30. Proposal for a law confirming Protocol No. 15. amending and supplementing the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms with the Final Proposal for Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 180. 51. Proposal for a law on the continuation of payment of purchased pensions with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 158. Proposers: Club of Independent Representatives and HSU and Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. 74. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 166. Proposer: Representative Goran Aleksic. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46967	Thank you, Your Honor. Since the Government has already given a negative opinion, on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act, under regular number 74, I propose that this law go into 2 readings and try to agree with the Government in the meantime, because the HDZ has already officially held that such a law should be passed. There's some persuasion. And those recommendations can be solved between two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46968	Since the promoter himself suggests going in 2 readings, I don't think there's any need to vote then, so we'll decide on this law in 2 readings. Since there are no other objections, I note that the proposal for an emergency procedure in other laws has been adopted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have tabled with the invitation to the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article. Article 225(3) of the Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to be fixed. In accordance with Article 225. Paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the objection can now only be made to those points which did not contain the draft agenda silenced with a call for a session. We decided on points 22 and 30 on the occasion of an emergency hearing. Any of the representatives and representatives of the objection to the inclusion of the remaining points of the final draft agenda, which did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the call for the 5th session. Are those points 10th, 25th and 34th? Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46969	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Greetings to ministers and all colleagues. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am expressing my dissatisfaction that I have not heard in your proposal that we will immediately select members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, since for 2 years, the council has not been established, due to the lack of concern of the ruling majority who are unable to choose members even though tender procedures have been carried out. We are witnessing that even parliamentary representatives of the ruling majority are bribing journalists, and the National Council is unable to meet and discuss the subject. Therefore, I am expressing great indignation that you are unable to complete this competition so that the National Council may begin work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46970	Thank you, too. The selection of members, outside members of the committee is in preparation. That's gonna happen very soon. I know there are parliamentary parties at the end of the day alone and in consultation. As part of that, this question you're talking about will also be resolved. So there are no hidden intentions, but it's simply a procedure that may be a little slower than it should be. Thank you very much. Are there any other objections? If there isn't, then I'm determining that these points that I've been talking about are included in the agenda of the 5th session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is where the agenda is established. In accordance with Article 205. Paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I should now publish the established agenda in an appropriate manner. Since there are a lot of points, over 100, I suggest that if you agree not to read it completely, but allow me to set the agenda the way I have suggested it in the final draft agenda, with the changes that we have now adopted. Thank you very much. We are now passing in accordance with Article 226(2). Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda, 5th session with 13 new points. First item: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Taxes with the Final Proposal for a Law, emergency procedure Second: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Pension Fund - Proposal for a Law on the System of Strategic Planning in the Management of the Development of the Republic of Croatia - Proposal for a Law on Administrative Inspection - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the European Workers' Council - Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation 2015/2283 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on New Food - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Amendments to the Law of the European Workers' Council - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Changes to the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Protection of the Environment - The first half of the Rules of the Rules of Procedures for the Final Rules of Procedures - You have been adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the Final Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Is there, therefore, any of the MPs objecting to the urgent procedure in the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed supplement, which is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Taxes with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. In the absence of any comments, a proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 5th session agenda? If there are no objections and these points are included in the session agenda and the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46975	And before we move to the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to inform you that 33 MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament have referred the proposal to the parliamentary procedure for the launch of the trust issue, Nadi Murganic, Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of a proposal to raise the issue of trust to the Prime Minister, to the individual member or to the Government shall, without a decision, include the proposed proposal as part of the agenda of the 5th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46976	He's the first to be respected colleague, Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46977	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Bridge for an ecologically devastating and energyless TE Peruca project on the river Cetina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46978	Here you go, pal Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46979	Thank you, Your Honor. I am looking for a break because I am talking about a problem that has become obvious to the entire public, which is five million euros from Sanader's bribe, which the tycoon close to HDZ, Mr Jezic, has not yet returned to the state budget after five years, although he has long promised it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46980	Here you go, Comrade Šipić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46981	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46982	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 14.45. Party at 14.35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.45 HOURS]] Three requests for a break were made, and now we have three speeches. The first is Honorable colleague Miro Bulj on behalf of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46984	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we saw the topic I told Termoelectrica on the strategically largest and most important pool of drinking water, which is the river Cetina and the reaction of the vice president, Ms. and Minister Dalic is an indicator that I hit the target and without asking her a question she gave answers that were unsettled but the fact is that 17 thousand people from Sinj and Cetina sent a memo. a petition to the prime minister who did not respond to the harmful thermal power plant built on the river, on Peraqa, i.e. on the river Cetina where the scientists and... Cvitkovic, Mr Ursic, courageously proved that others did not, in a study of environmental impact and lies that even represented Ruđer Boskovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But no, and it's proven to be false. In the Cetina region, bring a project like this, in central Dalmatia where half a million people are fed from the river Cetina, where we see today that it is polluted, slightly... The sail for our human nonsense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We want to do this because of human stupidity after the robbery of the Cetina region and what is empty is bringing investments that will receive a gas subsidy that the government in 2015 at the last session of now HDZ coalition partner, HNS, will bring, which people will pay subsidies to that gas, which in 760kg per second will go into the air and one to 2% of it is carbon gas poison. At the level of 150,000 vehicles, it's like he's working at one point. The magnificent gatherings of the people, of the complex people, of the Franciscans, of civil associations for the development of civil society, of defense associations rose clearly and loudly for the first time, we do not give you Peru. The days come when Ratko Mladic occupied the dam, raping, burning, slaughtering it, but Croatian defenders, I am proud to have been with them. But now we won't let them harass the Cetina region that's forgotten, in all matters. Look at the infrastructure it is. Here on Monday, they'll open a trap post after 20 years of protest. Does Sinj have a fee for the river Cetina, for the waterway... ? No, no, forgotten, forgotten. That's why I'm sorry, President-in-Office of the Parliament, for not warning Mrs. Dalic because I didn't ask her a question but she's recognized herself in this case, this case is all about conflict of interest. In the last government I was talking about a conflict of interest in the INA MOL case, here is Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, the owner of this project is the husband, her husband who sends letters to people, landowners if he doesn't sell them at a price he says will be the exception, that it is a strategic project. Which is a lie, that's a lie. A lot of these people have suffered on the river Cetina, they've moved out of Lake Peru. We must and I propose to declare Peru, Cetina strategically, of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia as the largest pool of drinking water and we will not give them Cetina, it is not a yes, the people have spent centuries from Turks, fascists, communists, I don't know the Nazis, they'll all survive and they'll survive this nest, regardless of what empty villages we have, that they invested in the Dalmatian Zagora, in the Cetin region, today they wouldn't have this situation that they want to push the project that's still being drawn up and in local self-government and in the county administration, and I asked for a request to delete, asked the people for a request, the people asked for it. There's no excuse here for this project. Let them take their fingers off the biggest spring of drinking water, water is life, and for that we will fight to the end, to the end. I can threaten people. I once said I was willing to take a bullet for this, yes, because I watched people die for Peru, watch their children grow up, who pay for what will happen to them to a 110m high chimney in the ecological heart of Croatia under Dinara, in an oasis of peace where we must develop tourism, in the very back of Split. We're not giving you Cetino! [[Don't give up Cetino!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46985	That was a tough one. One thing, more for the record, so I warned the Deputy Prime Minister that her behaviour was not in line with the Rules of Procedure, as I now warn you to behave politely, that would be a nice achievement, civilized for you. Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46986	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have come to this place today to ask one question, which is when today's HDZ favorite, the tycoon, the privatisation Robert Jezic, will return 5m euros of bribes to Sanader's state budget. In 2012 he told the court, in October, that he would do so within 30 days, but as you assume, he lied, so until today he did not. And the public therefore asks a logical question where the money is, where the money is, and when he means to return it. Robert Jezic's case is a sad case of the Croatian judiciary's failure to function. A sad example that proves that the right in Croatia exists only as fiction and that real as you would say, the real rule of law does not exist. It exists, on paper, it is de facto not because if the rule of law existed in Croatia, the court would issue a warrant to take that money from those accounts and return to the state budget unless it acted on the promise it made in court. However, this speech will be historic, and history will be because it is more than obvious that Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, former HDZ president, will never be legally convicted in the case and that the 5m-euro bribe will remain in the account of Robert Jezic. The question of what the workers of the DEOKI, workers who had not paid their salaries for months, workers whose company had taken them into bankruptcy, as he had taken them into bankruptcy and the Rijeka New List, and everything else that had come into his hands, and it came into his hands thanks to you gentlemen of the HDZ, you are the ones who made it possible for him. I am sorry too, and I am ashamed not of you HDZ gentlemen, but of the Croatian people who support this policy, and who closes their eyes to obvious crime. What is even scarier is that, when he thinks about returning that money, that 5m euros, he answers it by asking, "Are you normal?" So, if you ask the privatization tycoon when he'll pay back the money from the bribe, he's giving you a hand, he says you're not normal. It means that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who expect the rule of law, who think that crime is sanctioned, who think that Jezic should return not tomorrow but yesterday's money, are obviously not normal for Mr Jezic. And why Mr. Jezic can behave like that, because under the protection of your HDZ party. If it wasn't under your protection, he would have been prosecuted long ago. But he's protected, nobody touches him. Unlike me, who's been stripped of immunity because of the graphite writing, the graphite size of 40x20 centimeters and the damage to that graphite is, say, 20 kuna, here. So for such examples, or for such cases, the Croatian judiciary works, and for 5 million euros standing on Jezic's account, it's dirty money, black money, money from bribes, for such a case, the Croatian judiciary is simply not competent, it does not deal with it, etc. This is a big shower for all who believe in the judiciary, although I doubt there are such, and this is actually a sign to the Croatian people that in Croatia the rule of law does not exist, that the laws do not apply to all. And if there was an organization above the law, it would dare to say which is the law and which changes the laws if by any chance it should meet its objectives and interests. I hope that one day such a policy will come to an end but it depends not on my will, but on the will of the voters who have regularly supported the elections for 20 years, and this is our own shame and shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46987	The third discussion was by distinguished counterpart Ivan Šipic of HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46988	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, here's what I'm going to refer to is what my colleague Bulj has been burningly and heartily, as he has always defended in his performances, one topic that is really current in Dalmatia's Zagora in Dalmatia, especially in the Cetina region. So, the gas power plant that we've been writing about for a long time and our deadlines on all sides, what I'd like to say on behalf of the HDZ Club here very briefly. So the law is prescribed, and you all know that the environmental impact study is one of the basic projects, i.e. one of the basic documents defining all future projects and the development of this project. Whether it stops or it won't stop. What I know and what you all know is that the institutions involved in the final assessment of environmental impact studies are at least 10 to 15 addresses from Croatian Waters, Croatian Forests, various institutes, etc. and the institution. So, first of all, we want to stress that one scientific approach is needed, and I understand that, and what I'm about to say is certainly not going to be in the essential and important distance from the demands of our fellow citizens, especially in the Cetina region. The Ministry of Environmental Protection has formed an independent commission which is required from all sides to particularly analyse these institutions that are working on the project itself and to say what the profession means. So, I also want to emphasise what is available to me from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, that is that it is an independent commission that is appointed. The commission is made up of environmentalists, scientists, people of the profession, and they are, as I said, obliged at a certain time when the commission is meeting and between the holding of the commission, and as far as I know it has already been, to bring every time the results of what is visible and what data are exact and which is a scientific first and foremost professional approach and in this as I said, a very important topic not only for the Chetinian end, would also say Dalmatia and the Republic of Croatia because it is about drinking water, the source, about the future of power not only power and life of Dalmatia but also river and generally ecologicals. The board said "open guy" and everyone's available. It is also known that this project was proposed to be strategic, i.e. of national interest. What we know so far is not included in the strategic national interest. Whether it will be and when I believe it will depend exclusively on not only various institutions or resistances or investors themselves, but will depend primarily on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry, and will also depend on what will be shown through an environmental impact study which is the basic document of a project or the realization of that project. I want to stress here that I do not doubt the profession, that we do not question the scientific approach, that we do not doubt the will and desire and the people I belong to because I live here. I also don't believe and I don't want to believe that the Croatian Government or the RES will sign any document that would go against the lives of its people. And this is really about life because it's about one of the most precious pearls in our nature, and that's the river Cetina and the spring that powers all of Dalmatia, including those islands. So, my position, my personal attitude never, but I never will, and I also believe that this is the attitude of my colleagues to support something that would be out of danger, out of protection, out of the protection of little people, our people. Also given that at no cost do I want to reconsider what will happen to both the study and the opinion and the decisions of the ministry and institutions which are primarily in a professional and scientific way called to this, to deal with this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46989	I've seen two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46990	Dear President, here is my colleague, Šipic, who violated Article 238. He was deluding, so here also fellow parliamentarians and the Croatian public, he talked about it and called on institutions and the word of institutions, and right here we heard the words from the mouth of Prime Minister Martina Dalic that we who oppose this project against the development of this end and that we are the ones who are going to influence young people from eviction. The project has the full support of the Croatian government. Then we know how the institutions will react. He has the support of the foreign minister because the husband is behind this project and do not call on his colleague Šipic to the institutions when we heard here today that this harmful project will have the full support of the strongest persons in the Croatian government perhaps even a person stronger than Prime Minister Plenkovic, meaning Martine Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46991	My colleague Grmoy, he wasn't broken by the Rules of Procedure, it's completely evident. So, you're semi-committing. It could have been a replica, but you knew there was no possibility of a replica. Therefore, in accordance with Article 239, I give you a warning because you are aware that because you deliberately misused the Rules of Procedure and I ask you not to do so. So, you're the one who's de-committed with words. It doesn't hurt me at all. I'm asking you to behave yourself. I know it's not easy for you, because you obviously haven't learned it through your life, so I'd like to ask you to behave politely. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46992	Article 238 has been injured. Comrade Šipić, because you said this would go into strategic projects or whether or not it would be, it would be worth the waist. The fact is that people are being threatened by the owner of the wife project by the foreign minister Mrs. Buric. If they don't pay their price to be exorcised, they'll be exorcised and the people have made it clear not to that thermal power plant. And Martina Dalic today is neither guilty nor debtor, I am neither guilty nor debtor, attacked me, and I didn't say anything to her at all. It hurts. Who's behind this poisoning of the entire Cetina area? Who? Say it clearly, talk it out, say it out loud. Not thermal power plants, not Cetina destroys! They all said you were, you're a witness. I'm sorry you weren't at the protest because you don't have an order yet, but the truth is, they're not gonna build a thermal power plant. I specifically said I'm ready to take a bullet, they won't build it!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u46993	Thank you very much. I also give you a warning, because you have done the same thing as my colleague Bolshoi. I told my colleague Dalic very strongly that her behavior was inappropriate. [[/Intruder Bulj: Why didn't you give the Dalyman a warning. She attacked a parliamentary representative.]] So, you can look at your video. You will see that I have said very sharply that this is not the way in the Croatian Parliament to behave. And I don't have the authority and there's no warning to the ministers because it's not in the Rules of Procedure, but I said it loud and clear, I was protecting myself. ... So, I ask you once again from the Most, colleagues from the Most, please stick to the Rules of Procedure, to stick to the order. [[I don't understand.]] There's something prescribed here, I have to stick to it, it's my duty, and please don't abuse it. There are ways to express what you mean both here and outside the assembly. But please stick to the procedure. The procedure was made so it wouldn't be chaos. And what's happening now is chaos. So I'm closing this part of the debate and we're moving on to the agenda now. You can't get any more damage to the Rules of Procedure because there's no reason for that. We're moving on to the agenda. ... You can appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. [[You can't hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, currently in the morning, is held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. Therefore, we begin by asking a question to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure No 132.-139. The first in line for asking questions is a respected colleague, MP Veljko Kajtazi, who is asking his question to State Property Minister Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47888	... Croatian Parliament, honourable Croatian Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] After yesterday's conversation with Minister Goran Maric, I give up. I hope better cooperation, and hopefully part of the operational plan, that we will realize by the end of the month. He would also like to take the opportunity to get to know the Croatian public, as well as his colleagues and colleagues, if we had adopted an operational plan for national minorities this year, the 24th Kolovoza. I have to tell you that my colleagues and I have been working for 1 year and I expect more activity from the operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47889	I thank my colleague Kataziu, since he gave up the issue, then Minister Maric will not answer, so we move on to another question. The second is Honorable counterpart Davor Bernardic, who asks his question to the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47890	Dear President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I point out my question to you, five months have passed since you brought to this House lex Agrokor, a law written for only one company in Croatia, in which you were helped to write the bank. It's been five months since you appointed Mr. Ramljak's extraordinary commissioner, whom we could see more in the summer's summer magazines, than how he explains the real situation in Agrokor. The state took over, with lex Agrokora, complete risks, debt and potential dangers and tied them to itself and its Croatian citizens, it is entirely your responsibility. I am therefore surprised that the truth about Agrokor is hidden, i.e. the actual data on the company's business, the debts, the stockpile of Croatian property, forests, springs, waters, fields that are in Agrokor. Can you tell me if you get real-state reports in Agrokor, if you don't get them, if you're going to pretend when they come to you that you didn't know about them. So you're going to replace one of your ministers more effectively or why you're hiding the financial business of Agrokor, why are you afraid of the investigative commission and who and whose interests are you protecting?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47891	Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47892	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bernardić, as you know the Law on Commercial Companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, has adopted the Croatian Parliament. He brought it under circumstances when the largest Croatian company came into a situation to fall under the bankruptcy law. You know how many employees in Agrokor, how many companies there are, how many suppliers, how many small OPGs are related to this company and what would be the effect on all of them, and also on the Croatian economy, on the Croatian financial system that in those scenarios that we had then decided to say free market, is a private company, we're not going to do anything. Do you think fellow Bernardic that supply across our coast in this best, most successful tourist season since independent Croatia, for example, on any of the Croatian islands, would be equal if the law had not been there? Do you think that the adoption of this law did not lead to a new element of trust among creditors who, in these circumstances and with such a rating, were willing to offer fresh liquidity, money on the basis of which salaries were paid, on the basis of which the company was regenerated, on which the suppliers were paid and on which the small suppliers were paid practically on the basis of which our farmers were paid? What we did in the restructuring process, we hired world-renowned consultants for business and financial restructuring, we hired credible world-renowned audit houses, one from top four, we were hired in a way that everything that was done in that company was completely transparent. For your information on the Ministry of Economy's website, there are monthly reports which an extraordinary commissioner submits in accordance with the law of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, and we have not only had on many occasions meetings with an extraordinary commissioner but had a full review of the first 100 days of the extraordinary administration at the cabinet meeting. What we expect is a continuation of this process, a continuation of the process in a way that has led to the restructuring of the company, its sustainability, the retention of jobs, the care of companies in the Agrokor system in our neighbouring countries in a way that has not had the effect of tsunami on the Croatian economy. I remember well these discussions here in this House where we didn't share our views, we offered you a hand-consensus on such an economic and financially large topic, you refused that hand. I'm just asking you, if we were going somewhere else, where would we be today? Where today would be the Croatian economy which, as you saw yesterday at the cabinet session when you take the whole in the first six months not only there are no shortages, but when you take all the extra budget activities we are also in surplus. So excellent macroeconomic indicators, prefit for six months, the best tourist season and continuous, accompanied by credible international actors, lead the restructuring process. It's about nine months before we finish this process. We will continue to work transparently, work professionally, work responsibly and work in the best interests of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47893	Thank you. Thank you. Here's my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47894	Dear Mr. Plenkovic, you haven't answered a single question, not a single question. I asked you a specific question. The state has taken over Agrokor's management, the public has the right to know what's going on there. As you sedatedly, palely, diplomaticly respond and deceive the public in the background, there is a continuation of the conversion and privatisation of the 1990s. You do not unfortunately serve the interests of Croatian citizens, but of individuals and interest groups, I must tell you. You didn't save 40,000 jobs in Agrokor, you saved only one job and that's your finance minister. You said and promised not to collect the electricity, not only did you collect it, but it is a new blow this winter for all Croatian citizens. You said you would implement educational reform, this year Croatia missed again a chance to improve education for its children. Minister Dalic together announced the INA's purchase, the return of INA to Croatian hands, a year has passed you have done absolutely nothing. You announced a pompous project of Slavonia, we will prevent the emigration of young people, never again young people have moved out of Croatia but this year. You speculate or resolutely hesitate over the property tax, which you have now transferred, bypassed and transferred to local self-government units. It took you nine months to take off one board, and you're not sure if they'd remove it or remove it yourself. Unfortunately, your policy is a policy of giving up, a policy of delay, a policy of inaction, a policy of creating an impression that something is being done, and nothing is actually being done, and you are actually buying time for your position in the European Commission. The prime minister's position is unfortunately a reserve position for you, which is not what Croatia deserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47895	The third question is asked by a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47896	Thank you very much. Mr. President, my question is for Mr. Plenkovic. One year from the election, Croatia is unfortunately stagnating and backward, you haven't solved almost one problem in the past year, Croatia is divided, living worse than it was a year ago. Because of your policy, our fellow citizens don't feel well, your associates and your partners are Skejo and Bujanec, they're your mainstream partners, it's your world. Unfortunately, we have a lot of problems with Slovenia, INA, Agrokora, educational reform, withdrawal from the EU, poor GDP growth, radicalisation of society and a constant return to history, there are problems as many as you want. You want me to list more, I can talk about it here for half an hour. The number of employees falls the most in the EU, but Croatia's biggest problem is eviction from Croatia. During your term, over a hundred thousand people have left the Republic of Croatia for over a year. You've devastated Mr. E Plenkovic Slavonia, look at the way people live, look at what you're doing and tell me what you're doing to get these people back to the Republic of Croatia. When you hear all this stuff I said, when you see that your results are bad, that you're doing bad things, are you at least a little uncomfortable, are you thinking? And my question is in the end when will you resign? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47897	Prime Minister, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47898	You two obviously had a lot of fun this summer because I didn't notice that you were doing anything serious, so I think you're training these minutes at your disposal for some kind of marketing SDP that's never been more unrecognizable, weaker, weaker, weaker than it is. First I will answer to SDP President Bernardic, who was at a meeting yesterday. ... So I can do whatever I want. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Maras, what was your question? [[President: Hold on, hold on, hold on.]] What was your question? [[President: Just a little bit, no./]] What was your question?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47899	Prime Minister, just a minute, please, just a minute. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you to answer to your colleague, Maras, and it's up to you to find a way to answer those who wish, so I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47900	Here's what we're gonna tell our colleague Maras so he can listen to Mr Bernardic, right? I came to the European Parliament, in the elections I won, bearing a list. You have two MPs upstairs, we've had six. This ridiculous thesis about me being in the prime minister's position is a step for Brussels and if I came there, I must admit I don't hold my will, not even with the best faith, to try to understand what you want me to say, I'm failing. As far as fellow Maras and his questions are concerned, if you want a clear answer to what's clear, no. Mr. Maras, HDZ won the election. My government is facing all possible problems if Croatia happened over the past 25 years. I told the ministers the other day in a closed section of the government session, the only thing that hasn't happened to us in a year, a slightly more serious earthquake and maybe something else that SOA referred to in its report yesterday. Everything else has happened to this government. Do you think it happened because of people who are here or are people who are in government who have a responsibility to solve problems? We may differ in method, perception, the optics of what is around us, but remember how much tax reform has charged Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy. Remember what GDP data are for the first quarter, for the second quarter. Do not forget how much Minister Žalac is working more on the absorption of funds than your then Minister of Staff, Mr. Grcic. Look at the little numbers, look at the tenders that are scheduled and look at the added value. See how much focus we have put on Slavonia, not only through EU funds, national projects of integration, transport infrastructure, environment, demographic recovery, all issues are on the agenda. I wonder what would have happened to Agrokor if you had been in power? What would happen to the revised Schengen code if you were in power? Would the tourist season be this successful or not? Or perhaps because of your skill and diplomacy, the columns of the vehicle would be about from Bregana to Ljubljana, if not to Šentilj in this season? That's what I'm interested in. And this attempt to wake you up here on September 15th, I can like it, but there is reality and there is your optics of what is happening in Croatia. And all the data, you even saw that here's the State Statistics Bureau, I put the ashes in because he said he sent the wrong data to Eurostat. Never more employees according to Croatian Employment Service data. Never less unemployed. The fact that it was in your government's mandate that some people leave Croatia means that they are using those opportunities that you, in your consensus on Europe, have advocated, and that is freedom of movement within the EU. Of course we're not happy with that, but these are the opportunities that a part of our citizens benefit from. We will do everything possible to keep their conditions in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47901	Thank you. Before answering the question, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac has suffered a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47902	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, once again, he continues to practice stalking that he is not answering the questions of the MPs at the moment, but with a move, when he answers the question of the next MP. I don't want to get into the reasons why he's doing this. There may be two reasons, the first reason he thinks and understands the question with a move, that is, that someone whispers questions to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47903	Which article was injured, that's the first thing. Please, please tell me which article was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47904	And the second one that is actually very likely is that Mr. Plenkovic had no courage to oppose Mr. Bernardić's arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47905	Comrade Voter! A colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47906	232.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47907	232 hasn't been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47908	With that Mr Bernardic He didn't have a chance to answer the question. [[I beg you.]] I ask you to warn Mr. Prime Minister if he has no respect for Mr. Bernardic or Mr. Maras and then has respect for Croatian citizens and parliamentary representatives and when in this To the high home to treat the rules [[Intruder President: colleagues Voter can you finish please?]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder President: Fellow Voters Can You Finish?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47909	So I warned the Prime Minister that he couldn't answer another MP when the question was asked by another representative and now I'm warning you, so you said wrongly, you mentioned the wrong article, so you didn't prepare yourself for this violation of the Rules of Procedure at all, but you abused her, so please don't do that. And now he would ask his colleague, Maras, to answer to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47910	Thank you very much. Mr. Plenkovic, when a man listens to you, he wonders where you live. Where you live and talk about optics, so I'd say that you look at the world with pink glasses, means not normal glasses where you'd really see what's going on in Croatia, but in pink glasses. People are leaving Croatia, are they leaving because they're satisfied with you, because it's good? Who leaves Croatia for what is good for him? Who's leaving? Very few people go after their careers, most people leave out of need. Look at this, and your MPs are embarrassed to listen to your answers. They're looking at people in the floor, here's Mr. Prgomet, looking at the floor all the time. He's been looking at the floor the whole time. This government, Mr. Prgomet, and Mr. Plenkovic is worse than Karamark's government. This is one of the hardest things I've said in this House. This government and you, Mr. Plenkovic, are worse than Karamark. Your results are much worse, it can be measured. And I beg you, don't laugh, because people are sick of your laughs, your behavior in a way that doesn't experience the problems of our citizens' everyday lives. Over a hundred thousand people have left Croatia over the past year. If that's funny to you, if it's funny to the HDZ people, who are smiling and nervously, it's not to me. I think with your move, the sooner you resign, the smaller the damage. And I will fight, Mr. Plenkovic, so that my son, Skejo and Bujanec are no role models. Let Skejo and Bujanec be your son's role models. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47911	The fourth question, counterpart Sinisha Hajdash Donocic, raises the question to the Prime Minister as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47912	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, in order to tell the European mainstream, more and more talks on Europe at several speeds, in several formats. We have sitting sides, I will say EU founder countries, plus Austria, which advocate solidarity, for some common policy, for some common goals, while on the other hand we have some newer members who have later entered the EU and who are actually on the waves of xenophobia and pulsism, picking up their voters' votes and openly, I will say, lead anti-European politics. So my question to you, where is Croatia here? Is Croatia in your concept of foreign policy or European politics next to countries already old Europe, countries that rest on solidarity or are you more tangling towards Hungary and Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47913	The Prime Minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47914	So here's because I'm going to be Prime Minister for another three years, and these people are ministers, I'm going to tell you where I see Croatia in Europe, I'm saying it all the time, I'm saying it in the meetings of the European Council, I'm saying it here practically a day or two after I get back from those meetings, and I think that practice is useful for sensitizing the public about a representative in key European topics. I think only after this term will the full effects of what I do, meaningfully, intentionally and with a purpose, be clear. In all of these performances, you could probably recognize where I personally and my government sees Croatia. We see Croatia as part of those which are the deepest integrated European processes. And therefore, as someone who, well, invested a good twenty years of his professional and political life, believing that this process is good for Croatia, and I absolutely think it is, I intend to position Croatia along with all others who do so, and so do you as parliamentary representatives, precisely among those countries that will be what is called core Europe. Protecting national interests, understanding the changed global context, believing that answers to global issues are easier and simpler for countries like ours, if we are part of a European project. There are two examples and two challenges ahead. You heard about one, a brief reference and in a speech by Commission President Juncker, on his report on the state of the Union at the regular September European Parliament session where he urged us to continue to meet the technical criteria for entering the Schengen to which we are committed and what we will do. Another goal we also said was that, within the framework of the accession contract, joining the euro zone. Both the CNB and the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Finance are doing thorough analyses that will be presented in the coming weeks, months, two days, where we will do a hodogram of preparation activities to meet the criteria for both RM2 and ultimately for accepting the euro zone. These are two fundamental objectives, but the aspects of strengthening co-operation that exists at EU level are much wider and much larger. What is most important is that after this unfortunate and profound belief of the wrong Brexit, we take an even more active and more agile position within the framework of the European project. Of course, some of our neighbours, such as the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, in terms of migration which is one, can say the cultural, sociological issue, given the structure of society and the population, do not view the same and the issues of solidarity that you mentioned in your question. Croatia has taken over its commitments in the process, fulfilled them and sought to contribute to the great wave that we witnessed in refugee-migration about two years ago in a way that is both just and just, taking into account the economic strength of individual Member States. Therefore, the Croatian Government believes and this Parliament wants us to be among those who are part of the centre of European policy and the centre of European power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47915	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47916	A long-standing diplomat and a European politician, it is a factual state. But my personal impression is that you and the president as co-creator of foreign policy, and lately the Hungarian prime minister's spokeswoman more Croatia pushes towards the edge of Europe, according to some new military landscape since Croatian history is always reversible. This time the military province towards Russia. And I'm afraid that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are going to have one simple correction, you know what I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47917	Peta is now a distinguished colleague of Dragana Jeckov, who is asking questions from Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47918	Thank you. The Honorable Minister's question is for you next. The problem of registering schools in which the language and letter of the Serbian national minority in the east of Croatia are being taught is not being solved for many years. Despite the fact that all the conditions are met by law, i.e. in accordance with the Law on Education and Education, primary and secondary schools, and that the units of the local self-government of Borovo, Negoslavci and Markusica still requested the transfer of founding rights in early 2015. The process of transfer of founding rights is delayed and responsibility is transferred between the county and the ministry. I find it particularly important to point out that all other national minorities have solved this problem long ago. The question for you is that this government has also committed itself to an operational plan for national minorities to address this problem, and I want to know what you will do to resolve it for mutual satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47919	Minister Divjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47920	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament. I thank Mrs. Jeckov for the question, distinguished ladies and gentlemen. I think that the basic principle that we should apply here is that all children in the Republic have equal opportunities and availability of education, education and education regardless of whether it means education and education in the language and letter, in the Croatian language and letter or in the language and letter of national minorities. This was arranged by the last Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities in a way that either teaches in minority schools or in Croatian schools where class departments for national minorities are established. The amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education adopted at the end of 2014 opened the possibility that Mrs Jeckov also mentioned that teaching is being carried out, so that education in schools, where we already have schools and teaching is in the language and letter of national minorities to come under certain conditions of transfer of founding rights to a unit of local self-government. So it's not about re-registration, it's about transfer of founding rights. However, regardless of the meaning of these legal matters, what is important is to actually open a dialogue on this subject. Here are representatives and Serb national minorities at the Ministry of Science and Education where we started and discussed the subject. Certain proposals have been made. I think that, in this sense, we should continue to involve ourselves in these talks and solutions, meaning to propose solutions that will include representatives of local, regional, administrations, self-government in a way that enables equal rights for children of Serb national minorities and children of Croatian nationality so that this law can be implemented but in a way that we actually build a school for life, to provide a school of dialogue, not a school of division. So there is one legal solution, but I think that without opening a dialogue here I would suggest just setting up a working group in a way that I have explained earlier that we can hardly come up with a solution that will satisfy the law on the one hand, and on the other hand be acceptable on the ground and therefore in which I say as I said to the children regardless of whether, regardless of age, gender, nationality or religion enjoy equal rights. Here I hope you're satisfied with the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47921	Thank you, dear representative Jeckov, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47922	Thank you for your response. I'm not happy. In fact, we can't talk about separate schools and I don't want to talk about it that way. It's just that the possibility of educating students is what the law predicts. We actually only want one law enforcement. We have a characteristic situation here, because it's been working on the fact that we have parents, who at the start of schooling have made a clear statement of what model they want to study on. Next, we have schools, so the infrastructure exists we have a teaching chamber, everything except the transfer of founding rights. What we're actually looking for is exactly, that's exactly the application of the law on education and education and in accordance with Article 96. The law mentioned. Moreover, also very important to tell you, it exists in these schools, at the request of parents, is organized and teaching in Croatian, as the law once again allows. All we expect from you is a spot action, in that sense, the law begins to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47923	We move on to Question 6, Dear colleague Mato Čičak, the question is asked by Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47924	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable Minister and Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. The Croatian Parliament adopted a package of 16 laws at the end of last year, based on a comprehensive and comprehensive tax reform. 9 months have passed since the entry into force of the full tax reform, with which we have relieved entrepreneurs, provided the largest number of people with higher income, while maintaining the stability of the state budget and public finances. Tourism revenues increased by 7% compared to last year's period. Dear Ministers, what are further expectations and results of the tax reform, what measures are being prepared and what are the forecasts for next year?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47925	Here are the finance ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47926	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Greetings to all MPs and MPs, thank you very much for asking. Yes, a little less than a year ago in the Croatian Parliament we discussed a package of tax reform laws in 2 readings and then I was in the Parliament and the public, speaking in fact which were the basic reasons why we decided to take such a step. On the one hand, faced with the problem, to the point that, too often, too often, too many unconsistent changes in the tax system, which have created a very large degree of tax uncertainty, instability, inconclusiveness. And on that side, we are actually heading towards improving the tax system, making it more stable, more transparent, fairer, and in the context of the opportunities that we have created in the context of public finances and budgets, to take one step that we considered absolutely necessary and necessary for both Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs, which is to reduce tax burdens, i.e. to disburse both the economy and the citizens. Citizens and businessmen are the ones to ask, how pleased they are and how they feel about these effects, tax reforms, I can say from the perspective of the Tax Administration, Customs Administration, and I think that many of you who are local leaders, therefore from the perspective of local and regional self-government units, can certainly confirm that this administrative and procedural discharge is already visible now and, of course, from the perspective of both the state budget and the budget of the units of local regional self-government, you can also see the successful results of tax discharge. Yesterday at the government meeting, we adopted a report on the implementation of the budget in the first six months. It will soon be in the assembly benches and we will discuss it. I think that these indicators, as from the perspective of tax revenues, I made them clearer yesterday and said that many of them, such as income tax, profit tax, show results that are beyond expectations, which are exactly the tax forms in which we made the greatest emphasis in terms of tax discharge. So, income tax in terms of stimulating available income, lifting and in general, the psychological moment, but the real effect in terms of stimulating increased consumption and general satisfaction of citizens. On the other hand, in terms of tax relief, which should and should have been seen and raised and their level, i.e. appetite for employment, investment activity and overall economic activity. In front of us, of course, there are certain new challenges, which we have also announced, we as Government have made it very clear that, in the follow-up to our mandate, we will certainly work to create additional conditions for tax discharge. Public finances, you heard the results yesterday and the diameter indicators also mentioned them, for the first 6 months we have historical results, the government budget deficit by 800 million kuna is lower than in the same period last year, and you remember that last year it was a record record. And given the complete coverage of the general state and state in the first six months, it was in the surplus of 35 million kuna, which is certainly one very good data. So that's where we keep going. Our goal is certainly to continue this stability and public finances, reduce public debt, share of public debt in GDP, and this has been confirmed to be one of the key preconditions and this was the main reason why credit rating agencies first delivered one good, positive news to Croatia early this year since 2007. So, the prospects of our credit rating have been stabilised, and what I also said and what we are constantly declaring, in the follow-up of the mandate, therefore, through responsible rational spending of budgets, control of the expenditure side of the budget, our goal is to create conditions for further round of tax discharge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47927	Thank you. My colleague Chichak, there's no comment. Thank you very much, so let's move on to the 7th question, it is a distinguished colleague, Ante Babic, who asks his question to the Minister of Demography, Family and Youth and Social Policy, Nadi Murganic. Here's your colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47928	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear minister. Comparative data from 2014 and 2015 actually show a decline in persons at risk of poverty, but that number is still high and is looking for serious measures to reduce. Poverty must definitely not be the fate of Croatian people and Croatian citizens. Your ministry of the Ministry of Demography, the families of young people and social policy in the last three years has implemented a diet insurance project for children of primary schools at risk of poverty through the FEAD project and the European Fund for the most needed. The project in the past has been accompanied by a number of communication noises, as well as certain administrative difficulties as well as the demand for intermediaries in the supply of funds to schools, where this was not necessary. The government is aware of the negative demographic movements and has increased birth benefits, then introduces these subsidized housing loans, works to amend new measures that go towards investment in children, and this continuous programme helps parents and their home budgets so that this project can also be looked at in this direction. Demography is certainly respecting and reforming health and public administration, and here education certainly reform of all reforms and I am glad that the government is aware of this fact and gives it priority in its work. Because of the large number of students and schools, as well as information to schools, I ask you, did the ministry facilitate the application of this project and equal treatment to all users even though the school year has begun and what about the financing of meals divided before the signing of this contract?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47929	Thank you. Thank you, fellow Grandmother. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47930	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and MPs, respect. I'd like to thank my colleague for asking. Yes, you are the management of a full government through your programmes and through funding from the state budget and using European funds and other means that come through humanitarian organisations do everything to mitigate and prevent the risk of poverty, or to mitigate the poverty of our citizens, and all these measures that you have mentioned include the economic strengthening of our families, and therefore children. What is really relevant these days and your last question is, in fact, and it has been targeted for FEAD for the European Aid Fund for the most needed, these are the means with which the support of the Anti-poverty Strategy has been strongly marked in the period 2014-2020 and as you said this is the third year when FEAD funds will provide a diet for school children at risk of poverty. Namely, what you yourself said and the public was familiar with the fact that there were many administrative, complicated obstacles that made it somewhat difficult to use these significant resources and were also referred to by the directors, or meal operators, and parents themselves, who were faced with the collection of documentation that was not necessary for a number of times. In meetings with schools and with counties, we detected problems and went to a solution that has led to the fact that since this year, control and calculation of spent funds will be done in a unit at the price of meals, not at the expense of certain foods, and parents will be prevented or will not be required to collect documents on proof of their social status, but it will be believed that the recommendations of the school or county will be made. The delay in the calculation and payment of meals will not be because, always in the next month, invoices or invoices are recognised and accounted for, and the tender opened from 4 September to 31.3. next year, which means that the envelope is financial enough for all those who have already entered the school year to organise a free meal, as well as for those who will still join in the year. And what we're saying is that all children will be covered by a free meal that is considered necessary. Those who are really poor are already covered by funding from the state budget, schools will recommend these others. All counties will be covered because these three counties that have a 125 development index will be for organized diet from the Croatian Children's Foundation. I think that this is a significant step towards simplification, there will also be workshops around the county, there are data on the websites, information is available through the press and if this Assembly is followed, and surely this is always an incentive call for everyone to get involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47931	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47932	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, thank you for this information. Due to the enquiries of schools that come to us as representatives, I am pleased that you have repeated it again here in the Croatian Parliament. However, I wish that the ministry not to spend its own resources on these meals but to make maximum use of FEAD funds or the European Fund for the Most Needy, and you finally mentioned the Croatian Foundation for Children, which is very good, I forgot to say in my opening statement, not only for the provision of meals for children in schools but also for Croatia to take a little more care of families with more children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47933	Thank you, fellow Grandmother. And now it is up to MP Ante Bacic to ask the question of Defence Minister Damir Krsticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47934	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question is for Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister General Krsticevic. After 15 years, we have recently brought exactly a strategy of national security that defines a comprehensive national concept of security, and recently we have witnessed that the Croatian Army is the most ready to help citizens right in the fight with elementary disasters and all these extraordinary events that have been lately. I wonder if this is the very implementation of the National Security Strategy in some way of the National Security System Act, whose adoption is expected in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, which will formally establish a system of Homeland Security? And is that also the result of your new operational deployment to the Croatian Army troops and the efforts of this government that stopped the fall and increased the exactly defence budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47935	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Krsticevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47936	Thanks for asking. President-in-Office of the Parliament, gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, so here I would like to thank you first and foremost all of you, this House after 15 years, you all together, we have brought the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and this National Security Strategy recognises new threats, new risks and what is most important recognises the need to import all the components of systems and military and police and security intelligence systems and the Mountain Rescue Service, fire department. And what is very important, we have concluded that in Croatia we need a safety partnership, from this safety partnership we need to create a system of Homeland Security that needs to be effective, efficient, rational. That's why we in the Croatian Army changed part of the operational schedule, we made a new operational schedule, you saw that we dragged the army into Sinj. And that's exactly what bringing the army to Sinj turned out very well, the army was fast, it could react. You know that we had the hardest fire season so you saw that the army in continuity from Tucep, Podgor, then Split, Žrnovica, Zadar, Benkovca reacted in time. And most importantly, you saw now this last and around Zadar that the members of the Croatian Army responded very quickly, they came to the field, they helped people in Zadar, Bibinje, Sukosan. You saw that we went to Nin also on time, that we helped there and from the amphibious, too, behind that you saw that we had built a Ponton footbridge, that we were also helping with machines, clearing up the floods, also helping in Zadar to get that purifier into operation as soon as possible. And what's also very important, here and last night we had a call from the Istrian County, our soldiers are already on reconnaissance in the Istrian County this morning. If there is a need in relation to the rain and everything else we can do to help. It is the task of our soldier to be timely, to have the necessary abilities, to help our people. And I'd really like to thank the Croatian soldiers, officers and officers for doing a great job once again from this constituency booth. I would also like to thank this government, Plenkovic's government, for finally increasing the defence budget in the first year of the term of office 10% after 6 years. You can see that next year we want to increase it another 10%. All this is precisely in the function of developing new abilities that are needed for the Croatian Army to be even better, faster, more willing to respond to all these threats and risks. And most importantly, our mission is security. Without security we have seen all together, without safe society there is no development and the task is once again the safety of all of Croatia and the safety of all our people in Croatia. And I think that the Croatian Army is a very important element of the home security system clearly and gratefully to both the police and the firemen and all the people involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47937	Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47938	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. This is the only way I would like to congratulate you and all the members of our Armed Forces on the ultimate intervention, although in these difficult situations we must commend and it was nice to see this co-operation and cooperation between the military and with civil services, but especially with all citizens, so once again congratulations and just so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47939	Thank you. The next is the distinguished Sabina Vosovac, who asks the Prime Minister the question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47940	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, in every election, more or less every party promises that when it takes responsibility for Croatia, professional people will be employed, that it will seek to reduce the administration and that in some ways the same number of officials will be aware of as little measure as possible. Because the fact is that Croatia is not such a rich country that it can afford all sorts of luxury. The Ministry of Education is one of the ministries that is under public scrutiny for many reasons, mostly because nothing happened in Croatia in two years, there was no movement. So he got the impression that there was nothing going on there. My question to you is, I'm not going to deal with this subject today, but I'm going to do something else. Are you familiar with the fact that the Ministry of Science and Education is a recordman in the Croatian government by the number of assistants and state secretaries? Did you know that there are as many as 10 State Secretarys and Assistant Ministers in the Ministry of Science and Education? What exactly do they do if we take into account the fact that the scope of the job is the same and that during Nazda, we had five ministerial assistants and 1 deputy? And the last how many Croatian citizens monthly pay these people for which I would like to know exactly what they are doing and how many more will they pay them a year after leaving their duties because they will be entitled to 6 months full and 6 months half salary? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47941	Thank you. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47942	Thank you very much. Dear MPs Glasovac, the Ministry of Science and Education have 4 state secretaries and 5 ministerial assistants. Each of them has very precise and clearly defined tasks, you know that it is a large and important resort which is rarely the subject of your interest and during the performance in the Croatian Parliament and also the current clock. If you know that there are 3 large areas that have always been part of this system, one is primary and secondary education, the other is higher education, and the third is science, and when we add to the ambition of Minister Divjak who wanted to hire and former director of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, who has shown in his work that he is very skilled, capable of withdrawing European funds, and has given him the task of being exactly the engine and driver for attracting and using more European funds in the domain of science and education, then that is why we have 4 State Secretary. As far as assistants are concerned, it's the usual thing, they cover their normal functional areas as before, they're nothing more today than they were at the time of the former minister. As far as their salaries are concerned, they are famous, in the end you can see them in the property cards of all officials, and collect their salaries in front of the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament, I don't think there's any special point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47943	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47944	Well, if I was just going to check, six is the assistant I said, not five, and four is the secretary of state, ten. 4 administrations have always been and others, nothing new compared to the previous government, but the expected answer, but I will help you. So state officials at the Ministry of Science and Education, our citizens cost 300 thousand kuna a month. 300 thousand kuna. Imagine how many computers it's for schools, how many printing papers teachers have to carry home, how little schoolwork they're doing, where they're sneezing places. But well, we decided to go the other way. And why is that? Because citizens have to pay for the fact that you in the Ministry of Science and Education have to subdue two warring parties. You had to leave assistants and state secretaries who were assistants of Shuster and Barisic, and the minister has no confidence in them, so she appointed her own. And now that parallel system and court plots must be paid by Croatian citizens. But unfortunately this isn't the only case. We at the Ministry of Agriculture have a situation where, say, within a very short period of time, HDZ donors are making progress, let's say the donor under regular number 191. Well, then we have a situation at the Agriculture Agency that we're also hoarding up the administration. Unfortunately, Mr. Prime Minister, it is obvious that your mission is to hire party members and sympathisers, to improve HDZ donors, to appoint a bunch of assistants and state secretaries where you have to arbitration, you cannot draw a line and clearly tell and give the minister to do what needs to be done. In Croatia, unfortunately, employment is not booming, citizens are desperate, young people are leaving, obviously hiring flowers, which would say "flower flowers only in your company."
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47945	Thank you. Representative Davor Ivo Stier, number 10, asks the question of Foreign and European Affairs Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47946	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, on Wednesday, European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker gave a very important speech for Europe, for Croatia, especially since he sent a very clear message in his speech that Croatia deserves membership in Schengen, that he expects other EU member states not to block that road to the Schengen area. In this context, how do you see now the perspective of our entry into Schengen, of course the work of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, is important together with the work of the MUP?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47947	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47948	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. Comrade Stier, I think it is very good that you have drawn perhaps the most important message for Croatia of the EU's state of play on Wednesday, which was said by the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, and how important the message is the fact that this is a speech on the state of the EU's priorities, so not only are the priorities that are priorities, individual Member States. So such a message, from such a level and in such a way as Mr Juncker formulated it, I think it undoubtedly sends a message that Schengen is important and entry into Schengen of all EU members, that entering Schengen and rapid entry into Schengen is important for all those who are ready, are now technically Bulgaria and Romania, Croatia with everything that works on this plan, you mentioned two resolutions, so the MUP and certainly the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs are ready, we already participate in one level of the exchange of Schengen data. So this is also said in a subtitle to that speech, the big wind in the back of Croatia and the Croatian ambition to be exactly what the Croatian Prime Minister was saying. A member of the queen of the European project, so into these two projects that we still need to enter, which is the Schengen area and the euro area, is certainly the first in line at the moment, and the one in which we have done the most, the entry into Schengen. We believe it is not irrelevant to mention why entering Schengen is important. Deputy Prime Minister Krsticevic has apostrophe of perhaps the most important preoccupation of today's Europe and the world, which is a matter of security. So entering the Schengen area is the first place to enter a larger area of security. In times of radicalism, terrorism and all threats from the smuggling of the most diverse species, we think that security is what recaptures Croatian citizens, citizens of Europe and citizens of the world. So entering this zone is certainly one of the most important facts for Croatia. It is not important to say the same that we do not participate in this area poses challenges for Croatia, because at the same time it is also important to pass through the internal borders of the EU. The Croatian Prime Minister spoke about what would mean for our tourism, or what would be the results. We would certainly not be the way we are now, which is that we have the best tourist season so far, if no agreement had been reached just during the application of the new Schengen rules between the President of the Croatian Government, the President of Slovenia and certainly the great assistance of Mr Juncker and Tusk, to apply different types of controls, that is, those types of controls that are appropriate to the real internal Schengen border. So in that sense, I don't think there's any need to further explain. It is of paramount importance for Croatia to complete this technical preparation process next year and it will certainly be over and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be ready for it in part of the visa policy. And as lobbying goes, of course, we've done it before, we'll do it further. This big and important message certainly gives an excellent frame and wind to the back that the Schengen, Croatia's entry into Schengen takes place in the term of office of this Commission and certainly in the term of office of this Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47949	Thank you, too. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47950	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for that answer. You pointed out well that the President of the European Commission stressed that Croatia's entry into the Schengen area is important not only for Croatia but also for the EU, for EU security. This is a very important message for us, especially that it is put in the context of one communication on the fact that the European Commission does not want new divisions within the EU, does not want one EU with the citizens of the first and second order. In principle, he sent a message that he does not want one such Europe more speed, but more integrated Europe, of course where Croatia will also have its place when it enters the Schengen area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47951	I thank my colleague Stier. And now we're going to the 11th question. Dear counterpart Boris Miletic raises the issue to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47952	Thank you, President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. What I would like to talk about today is the question of the government's relationship to state property directly linked to the economy because I believe that today is one of the most important topics if we want to get the country out of the economic crisis. The example of southern Istria has contributed to the fact that for decades it has been a very strong military area since the time of Austria-Hungarian and, fortunately, Croatia's entry into NATO alliance, Croatia's entry into the EU, the need for such an amount of army no longer exists. On the other hand, there were indeed significant amounts of state property, state land, former military zones from the former military airport to the great Muzil peninsula, which were normally refurbished by local units for economic, or civilian purposes. It's hard to understand, and it's hard to find an answer to the question of why it's taking so long. We've got one side of the former military plots staring empty, it's abandoned, it might even pose a certain security threat. On the other hand, we have interested investors both domestic and foreign who would like to invest and create new jobs. But that's not happening. For what? Because simply the state as owner and government does not call a public tender to invest entrepreneurs. I'll only say about Muzil. Over 40 million kuna per year only from VAT revenues to the state budget. Why are we waiting? What's that for? What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47953	Thank you. The Prime Minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47954	Thank you, dear fellow Miletic. We have seen you in Istria several times during this term, and you have also seen Minister of State property Goran Marić who spoke with both you and your associates and with Mayor Fleg about a series of issues that we can call activation or former military property, so now state property in Istria. You can see that the general trend of activities taken by Minister Maric is primarily to get a full picture across Croatia, not only in Istria County of how inactive the state property that is, for example, in tourist resorts is infrequently and damaging, perhaps an image of these cities or municipalities. And it is our instinct that, in close cooperation with local and regional self-government units, we find solutions in order to activate this property. I think the Muzil we talked about and on the occasion of my visits to Pula may be one of the great examples of how an important complex becomes an additional value to the city of Pula, not a burden. And on this side you have the door open and mine as Prime Minister and Minister of State Property Maric. As far as military property in Istria is known to me other than the airport, everything else has been transferred to the Ministry of State Assets, and the Ministry of State has the task of agreeing to agree with the State Attorney's Office. That property when possible is transferred to a unit of local and regional self-government. That's the kind of message we got in every county we were in. And it is one of the main initiatives within which we started our six-month meetings between our mayors and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On that trail, I expect your initiative and finding a solution here for the brain, perhaps in yours and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47955	Thank you. Here you go, pal Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47956	I believe that we are sending a very clear message to the business world when we discuss the international competition in November 2015, regardless of which one is the government. And then two renovated world firms show interest and it's been almost two years, and we're doing nothing. I think it's a bad message to the business world, because it turns out we're not serious. So when we speak specifically for the mozil, over 600 people can be directly employed there, indirectly 1,000 people. I only said annual income from value added tax. It is indeed a large area for which business plans have been adopted and there is simply no rational reason why you can guide it. I'll ask myself a personal question, and try to ask yourself a personal question. If it were our private property, it would really give me so much time to put it into function and lose so much millions and millions of revenues annually. I agree that it's a positive balance sheet for the first six months, but I'm not so sure the state is missing, there's no lack of financial resources and that it can treat its assets in this way. On the other hand, what we read from the media is a little scary, the proposed new law on state property management, which goes after additional centralisation, and how the media is given to read in another way we are not informed. It looks like it's going to go retrograde again to try to penalize cities and municipalities. I believe you won't try to do that, because they've tried once, so the Constitutional Court has abolished such a provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47957	Thank you. We are moving on to question number 12, dear colleague Vedran Babic. The question points to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47958	Thank you, Mr. President. I will ask my question, as I have announced, to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. Here you are, as you are today, boasting about the lowest unemployment rate in the history of the Croatian state until today, but to anyone living in Croatia, it is clear that these data are devastating. Because those who know, they know that 50,000 jobs haven't opened in the last two years, so does the president who also confirmed it. Because it is almost certain that at least 50,000 of our country's working-age population left Croatia, went to Ireland, Canada, Germany, or who knows where and where to look for a job and an opportunity for a better life. My colleague Glasovac has warned here that the number of employees in the ministries is increasing, data is constantly coming, that here, specifically, Croatia's agricultural agency, money and systematisation are projected at 10 new employees. In the advisory service, 30 to 40 new people were employed, parallel to that, but this year alone, 5,000 family farms closed down. By introducing membership fees, commitments to the agricultural chamber, more will be closed. The summary of everything in the last few days was that statistics at EU level show that countries are increasing the number of employees. Croatia is unfortunately the worst in the quarter that reduces the number of employees. I am now asking you, since you are withdrawing from the State Statistics Office, what is the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia and compare that number to any year in the history of Croatia's newer. With... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47959	Thank you. The Prime Minister's answer is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47960	Thank you very much, colleague Babić, as regards this information of yours, we have already partially touched them in earlier answers to questions, and even in the extreme line, here is in this indication of the DZS which made a mistake which is a little unusual, given that it is the business of that state body. So, the data we keep using are those data that the Croatian Employment Service has, therefore, registered data. They've been over the past few months, right. Over a million and 500 thousand employees. The fact that over the past two years, no additional 50,000 employees have been registered is simply not true. He is verifiable, you can verify him, send a written inquiry to Minister Pavić, so he will make it very clear to you. We even had to make a decision to increase quotas for imports of foreign workers for certain interests. If you talked to people a little during the tourist season, then you could see a very, very noticeable deficit in both construction and catering and tourism. There were deficits, jobs, and here we can actually go to Konzum and Agrokor even, looking for new jobs. Therefore, I believe that the overall rating of the total employment or unemployment rate in Croatia, you should look at it realistically, not looking at it disastrously. And I remind you, only 5 EU countries have introduced restrictions on that 2+3+2 formula where they have certain restrictions on our citizens as regards the free movement of workers. Part of the people use it. We're not thrilled with that. You had that problem during your government's term of office. You remember that very well. We are now in the EU's 5-year membership and part of people are looking for greater income for what they want in their lives. Our shared responsibility to make the overall economy, and in particular jobs, new jobs in the real sector available. That's where we generate economic growth and living activity and we'll work on it. It's part of our dialogue with both the Chamber of Commerce and the HUP, in the end line and with the Agricultural Chamber that you mentioned here. I think the amounts according to what Minister Tolusic says are indeed symbolic when it comes to membership in Croatia's agricultural chamber, and in this way if it were not financed as it has been since the state, it would certainly be more independent in its action. It is our joint task to implement these 1.5 billion kunas we have allocated this year on active employment measures. You have also seen a series of campaigns carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, for example, especially this Programme of Desires that we promote for the employment of women in society, which has very good echoes and seems to me to be a real example of how in an intelligent way the European Social Fund funds are used and contributes to the overall rate of employability of those groups of people who are either long-term unemployed or persons with disabilities or are unfortunately women in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47961	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Granny.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47962	Thank you, Prime Minister. But here, in your answer, you confirmed what I'm saying. So you said and we all know that the number of employees is missing, both in tourism and in construction, workers have left the Republic of Croatia and gone. Of course, the trend has been taking place since Croatia's entry into the EU, but the fact is that nothing has changed and should work on it. Croatia if it wants to go further a million and a half jobs is not enough. In the systematization of employees, volunteers, persons on professional employment, those who pay for copyright, pensioners who work a few hours a week, these are the numbers that protect them. In order for Croatia to move on, we need over two million employees. I believe you will find strength and solutions, not introducing a new parafiscal intrusion here as we have touched membership for the Agricultural Chamber. The O.P.G.s are closing, and we're imposing on them, and I don't understand that. I am sorry that Minister Tolusic has convinced you that this is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47963	The 13th parliamentary issue of distinguished counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic, the issue also to the prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47964	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Plenkovic. Recently, the government that you are chaired by has decided to seek a consultant for the possible purchase of INA. I will remind the Croatian public that on Christmas Eve 2016 you announced that the government will buy INA shares from MOL, on 19 January of this year you set up a Council for Negotiations with MOL in connection with the possible purchase of INA. Today on September 15, 2017, what I can conclude and the fact that it is imposed is that the working body, so the advice took eight months to advise you that you need an adviser. My question and I would like to ask you a direct answer, is the Government of the Republic of Croatia going to buy INA from MOL and if we go to buy INA from MOL, does this mean that we are going to privatise 25% of HEP shares, or 25% of HEP shares, and is 7 of those 25% of HEP included? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47965	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47966	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic. As far as INA is concerned, it is true that we are following an arbitration ruling that has been brought into action... As you know at the end of December of last year, we decided to step forward to retake the MOL's stake in INA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We made that decision because we believe that INA has a strategic character as a company for the Croatian state. What seemed to us, and in some ways during the SDP government, it was obvious that communication with the Hungarian governance party at the time was not particularly effective, that this was the best way for Croatia. We made the decision, of course, on the basis of recommendations from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment and Energy, to start a competition for an international consultant to help us evaluate the value of the company and all other aspects in line with the parameters we discussed, and most importantly, that obtaining MOL's stake in INA does not lead to an increase in public debt. One of the options for obtaining that part of ownership is the privatisation of the part of HEP, so what was discussed several times in the public, but we want to make a final decision about it when we look at all aspects related to this process. Do not forget that there is still a second procedure, an arbitration procedure in front of the OXID in Washington, and that there are a whole series of open issues in the INA business itself at the moment, that I am not talking about the future of the Sisak Refinery and the jobs of more than 700 employees working there. Our goal is for INA to be a company that can be long-term sustainable and can function the way it was before the MOL entered its property. The whole process requires a lot of dialogue with the Hungarian side, and I must say that over the past year we have significantly improved the culture of dialogue between the company itself and the Croatian government. This also affects the overall atmosphere that exists when it comes to the business of INA in Croatia. And we will make further decisions on this subject through a tender that will be announced shortly after the recommendations and analysis of renowned credible, international advisers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47967	Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47968	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't be satisfied with the answer, I'm looking for a written answer. And I'm also looking for a written projection of how much these advisors are gonna cost us. Because I agree with you when you say that we should take a good look at and think about all possible aspects and all possible implications and financial purchases of the INA. But if we set up a advisory body that needs to be advised for 8 months that you need a counselor, perhaps you should also set up a counseling advice for the counselors who advise you in the field of counseling? So the complexity and long-term thinking is one thing, slowness is another thing. And as for the sale of HEP itself, I can only comment on the following, we'll buy a company that deals with the energy of the past and substitute it for actually a share in the company that deals with the energy of the future. That's not good for Croatia, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47969	Thank you. We're moving on to question no. 14. Dear colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, the question asks the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47970	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to Prime Minister Plenkovic. My colleagues have also asked a number of questions that we will ask you safely and in the future. This is the topic of INA, the topic of Agrokora, the topic of emigration, the topic of employment, the topic of strengthening administration, the topic of increasing parafiscal burdens, and the tax on real estate and everything else. In this distinguished House 11 months ago, on October 19th last year, you presented us with a program of government. I'm going to ask you a very, very simple question, Mr. Prime Minister is you satisfied? Are you satisfied with where Croatia is going? Do you have a vision where you want Croatia to be 2030, 2040, 2050? Are you happy with the way we're going? So I'm not going to ask you or the data, or to talk about whether this many or so people have been evicted, my question is very simple, Mr. Plenkovic, are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47971	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47972	Thank you very much for this very well-intentioned question, I ask myself every day given the number of challenges facing not only the Government but the whole of Croatia, and that's what I said at the beginning. I don't think we're some kind of victim or that we have to complain, but if you look real, there's practically no problem with the Croatian transition that hasn't been updated. Here are open issues with neighbours, many years of problems that remain open, privatisation problems, transformational effects, everything we do about Agrokor on the Croatian economy must be long-term. Sometimes people ask us about reforms, so the whole process of Croatian state engagement in Agrokor must have a transformative effect on the business of the Croatian economy. And if the practices we have now seen, which have become more visible to a wider circle than those in the business world, are no longer what they were before, then I will be very pleased with what we have done. Am I satisfied with the atmosphere in society? So you see about a year ago and a few days ago society was if divided. Ideological topics have fallen out of all the closets. Part of the players who were then relevant still want to keep these topics on the table to distract both mine and your attention from the important. And the important thing is the economy, it's the standard of living for our people, it's about demographic restoration, it's about our social solidarity, our sustainability of the pension system, our employment. From my point of view, I can say that this past year of 2016 was one year of blitz victory. This year objectively with everything we're faced with, I can't call it anything but a year of stability, a year where I'm trying to do everything I do, and I'm transforming the HDZ very openly in this whole process to get some ghosts back into the bottles that they came out of. It's not an easy process, it's a process that lasts long. You have different methods of how you're going to solve it, you can do it quickly, you can right away, you can have a little sensitivity for something that someone from one spectrum sets you up so that someone from another spectrum is criticizing you for months and days. And I experience this, very consciously, very rationally, even seeing to the micro detail who the actors are pulling these strings, but we have the strength to endure it all, to resist it all, to seem even with your support and with occasional consensus with strategic topics from Croatia one modern European country, well-intentioned. Not a country that will pull itself back with its own engagement. That's what motivated me to even get into the position I'm in right now, and I'm gonna insist on it. That's the goal of all ministers, that's the aim of the parliamentary majority, and I don't doubt your goal, because that's why we're here. This job is too demanding and in order not to have a vision of what we said last year, this is the 4th point I also said about political stability, legal certainty and economic growth and social solidarity are pervaded in all the activities of these resolutions, in all legislative proposals. Getting some pleasant surprises on the agenda makes our work more challenging. I'm satisfied and I'll be even more satisfied if I do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47973	Here you go, fellow Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47974	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm glad that in the end you said that you were satisfied, we obviously live in different countries and think differently about some things. I'm sure one of you and I agree, and that's 1886 years ago. Ivan Mažuranić said "I believe in Croatia, in the past, the present and the future." That should all agree, but as we have the present and the opportunity to see and there we should listen to the voice, the voice of the people. The ones who tell us next. And it is not leaving the Croatian people just because of the job, because of the possibility of leaving for some other reasons. I'm using data that I have a chance to use, so the data that the Federal Statistics Office says,... that 54 245 citizens entered Germany in 2015, and those data that were last released, and now I have two of them that 138 thousand Croatian citizens were evicted from Croatia in 2015 and 2016. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The city of Rijeka has 128 thousand inhabitants, so just to get a picture of what's been said. And the essential question is, why are people leaving? They're not just leaving because they have the opportunity to work, they're not leaving God's possibility of economic conditions, they're leaving because of something you mentioned. And that's, I've been reading fairy tales, I've asked them to my kids, there's really this story about the ghost from the bottle. When the ghost comes out of the bottle, then lives his own life and it's very hard to put it back in the bottle. And we talk a lot more about the spirits from the bottle, about these terrible divisions where the bypasses can no longer be established, and that's what the mission is primarily about you, and the task is to warn us about it and we'll warn, and believe me, we'll listen to the voice of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47975	Thank you. We move on to question number 15, it is a respected colleague, Branko Hrg, who is asking the question of the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47976	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the transport connection in any case is something without which there is no development of any region and I, and this way, once again express the satisfaction of the people of Koprivnica-križevci County and the whole area, especially the town of Križevci on activities and efforts to open that fast road section to the Križevci. Of course we're happy to have this big investment in another spring track. There's one big problem that people often warn me about and often ask, so I'm actually going to pass on their question to you. So the rest of the problem is that now traffic takes place through the center and people who come from the Podravina area, that coprivnica part, have to enter the town of Križovci itself, cross the line crossing and very difficult to get to the exit on the fast road. We are at a time when the projection of this fast road was still made, on the section of Cugovec-Kloštar Vojakovski, and still towards Koprivnica, we planned on that area one access road through the railway crossing of Lemesh Križevacki until entering the fast road. For this, Croatian highways even made a specific project documentation and we even had one proposal for an agreement on the table to sign it between the town of Križevci and Croatian highways. Later on, Croatian roads took over the management of the road, so my question now has been given and there are some indications that this access road could be made since the overpass is already being made at the railway crossing of Lemesh Križevački as part of that project to build a second railway track from Križevci to Koprivnica, thus bypassing the town of Križevci and allowing people from the Koprivnica area to move easier?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47977	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47978	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs and honourable representative thank you for this matter. You've said most of the things actually what happens to that share, I'll repeat divided in two stages. The first stage is the access road for the economic zone Gornji Čret and the second stage is the Street of Ivan Gundulić, along with part of the Street of King Tomislav, and it is true that Croatian roads have signed an agreement with the town of Križevci, that for the first stage they produce all the necessary project documentation, devices and innovation projects, and at the moment the Croatian roads and the project performers have completed an idea project, the application for a local authorisation has been submitted, and the main project is being taken over in a month, month and a half of the project will also be submitted to the request for a building permit for the first phase that should be followed by the Croatian highway obligations. In accordance with the possibilities of Croatian roads after the completion of the documentation, i.e. the issue of a building permit, it will be in the plan of Croatian roads, and for this second stage taken over by the town of Križovci, it is their obligation, I believe that they will also parallel with us, i.e. the Croatian roads will start to build these completely one first and second phases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47979	Thank you. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47980	Thank you very much. I'm pleased, of course, with your answer and I believe it will be because you've already proven that you're keeping what you promise in that part. I will be pleased to start building overpasses on the road towards Sveta Ivana Žabno and Bjelovar and that this traffic isolation and traffic collapse will surely be resolved. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47981	Thank you. Question number 16, MP Zeljko Jovanovic, the issue goes to the prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47982	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, in recent weeks, we have witnessed interesting as you say, but not at all the attractive actions and statements of senior HDZ officials. Thus, Mr. Lucic here was caught in an attempt to bribe Draga Hedl's journalist. He then resigned to party functions, but remains a parliamentary representative and member of the HDZ. It is known that it continues to enjoy numerous illegally acquired benefits, and among other things, media reports say that the same representative even took money for travel expenses, even though no car is available. Another HDZ member, Mr. Hrvoje Marusic, once a city councilman in the city of Split, threatened activists from NGOs with the shooting, as he said they were reluctant to accept their world-famous beliefs. The other day, our colleague here is present, Parliamentary representative Petar Škorić, otherwise the vice president of the City Council in Split and the president of the Split HDZ, collapsed on HTV journalist Maja North, accusing her of, I must quote, I cannot repeat it alone by an arrogant SDP propagandaist who promotes a failed totalitarian ideology and hates everything that is Croatian. A colleague of Škorić, a famous proverb for all who are not at the will of HDZ. Isn't it? Otherwise, this statement was related to the cancellation of the "Croatian Live" show, which is why today is also the protest of the Journalist Society. We got one of them material from which I'm going to quote the part that took a very nice picture of the situation with the cancellation of Croatia's live show because we're wondering who actually wants to cancel one such show. So they say from the Croatian Journalist Society, the thing is that someone who's thought of bribing a journalist, threatening journalists, shutting down shows so as to shut down Croatia live for decades suggests that the best program is the one who doesn't question, doesn't investigate, doesn't give people hope, Don't give them a chance, don't ask for answers to [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] What? [[Adversity President: Col. Jovanovic, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47983	Thank you. I took everyone's time after it expired, and so did you. I'm asking you to hold on to that. You'll have more options. Thank you very much. [[Invadica Jovanovic: I am finishing. Will Mr Plenkovic have his influence to ensure that Croatia returns live, that we have public television without pressure from politicians.]] I told you something. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47984	I thank the esteemed representative Jovanovic for his question. As far as I'm concerned, as far as the government is concerned, we have absolutely no influence on the editorial policy of public television, nor on the programming schemes that, as far as I know, have any innovations every fall. Therefore, it is a question for the director, for whoever decides on the programme, and certainly not a question for the Croatian government that is in the selection of shows or people who are working on certain shows in no way intending to get involved. As for these other insinuations of yours regarding some HDZ members, I will not answer to you now as some of your colleagues also spoke in public space, because I do not think it is the level of debate in the Croatian Parliament. What I know is that counterpart Lucic offered to resign on the same day as the county board, however, we will see the legal process in which it will result and whether it will come to its realization at all. As for Mr. Marusic, I think it is about his statement, which is absolutely inappropriate, which we have condemned to initiate a tight procedure in front of party bodies. As for his colleague, Skoric, he already apologized on social networks about the post he posted a few days ago. But he's here for you, so ask him what he thinks about it. However, what I want to tell you is that we all need to care for one higher level of dialogue, political communication, public communication. Because what we say as people who have a mandate from the Croatian people has their reflections among people. And so when I've been looking at these last year, I think you've had to do a very, very, very, very good job of finding out, let's say, a little offside in the performances of the members and members of the HDZ, and there are more of us than all the other members of the parties together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47985	Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47986	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, not that it was offside, but it was a red card of all that I mentioned today for Mr. Lucic and Marusic, especially for Mr. Skoric. Otherwise, Mr. Plenkovic, what has characterized your work over the past year shows actually one mixture of bitterness and fear. We all know that difficult words and bitter gestures often hide indecision, even cowardice. You will face journalists who ask questions that you do not want to hear without a problem, you will be proud of the parliamentary representatives who ask questions when they are from the opposition's ranks, you will threaten journalists who do not think for themselves and will actually contribute indirectly to the cancellation of Croatian Live. So if you are such a Democrats, you have a majority in this House, make sure that "Croatian Live" comes back to life. The best example of your indecisiveness, which is probably behind the new star of the political sky of the Croatian polling "no one" we have seen in relation to the extreme right, according to the panel in Jasenovac which you have solved in your brilliant way that you moved 15 km away and sent a message that the Ustasha greeting that should not appear anywhere seems less stinky in some parts of Croatia, and everywhere smells the same that it cannot be tolerated. Mr Plenkovic, when you love committees so much, let go of the past, establish a commission that will ensure that Nikola Andric's school in Vukovar is built as soon as possible and that the school in Babina Greda finally gets a sports hall. These commissions make sense, and everything else is pointless. And bring "Croatian Live" back to life.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47987	Thank you. It is now up to representative Davor Milicevic, who is asking the question of Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. And if you'll excuse me, I apologize. I skipped an esteemed colleague, Ivan Lovrinović. He's asking the Prime Minister a question. Excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47988	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to ask Mr. Prime Minister, it's about pensioners, more specifically for the pension system because our pensioners are getting worse and worse every year, their living standards are falling. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister, we have been able to read over the past few days that the Romanian government, plans to transform the 2nd peacekeeping pillar next year, i.e. to shut it down on a voluntary basis. So the question arises, i.e. the first finding, after that, Croatia remains the only country in which it works and will operate the 2nd pension pillar. Can you answer to all of us, whether your government intends as the last government that means holding this pension column for the time being, whether you intend to abolish, or transform the 2nd pension column on a voluntary basis into 1st, or you will listen to some of your ministers who have already said, that it is even necessary to increase the detachment from the contributions of all workers in the 2nd pension column.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47989	Go ahead, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47990	Thank you very much. I am pleased to see you follow this practice that is currently being discussed on the Romanian political scene and possible and scenarios for the second pillar in Romania to be optional, not mandatory. In Croatia, the 2nd pillar of pension insurance has existed since 2002, property, all those who paid in the 2nd pillar is essentially the property of all these citizens. And that's something that matters and we have to respect it. At this point at the government level, we did not discuss scenarios that would change the current system and we appreciate that pension funds need to help Croatia and the Croatian economy in the way we have seen it in the past year. Well, the dialogue that Minister Maric is leading with them, about a number of Croatian companies, which have found themselves in difficulties in one way or another, shows that their role can be extremely beneficial for the recovery of certain Croatian companies. So at this point, I wouldn't speculate on following the Romanian example you refer to, even though he didn't define it to the end. We will, on our part, see this in all the moves, our policies, the smart fiscal consolidation, try to reduce the deficit, in a way that we take care of how, how effectively, the funds of Croatian taxpayers are spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47991	Thank you. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47992	Mr. Prime Minister, therefore, you continue to claim that your government is the smartest, of all transitions in Europe, that is, of all countries, that is, the Government in Europe and you will try to preserve the 2nd pension pillar. However, let me remind you, Mr. Prime Minister, in 2008, contributions from the work on total pension expenditure amounted to 65%. Do you know what they did last year? Do you know? Only 35%. So that the pension system is deeply compromised here, I don't know what you're going to do, this is a time bomb for Croatia, and we have really big problems. But, look, it's clear to everyone in Europe both politically and academically, that the World Bank project is about, that 2nd pension pillars need to solve what doesn't solve the real economy. And that investment in financial markets is the only real way to make money to increase pensioners' income in the future, that it was a disastrous model and that it was a failure. So you're still insisting on it. The Czechs and Slovenians refused to accept at all, the Poles, the Slovaks, the Hungarians gave up on him, we now see Romanians. You have a lot of friends in the European Parliament, so ask, e.g. Mr. Tusk, who is the head of the European Council, to explain why he, when he was the prime minister, transformed that column. Or ask Robert Fitz's diameter, why he is. You're saying foreign consultants are good, so you intend to invite them about HEP. So I suggest you invite these experts to make the right decision with your state's wisdom about the 2nd pillar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47993	Thank you. Now it is up to counterpart Davor Milicevic and the question of Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47994	The question would be asked by the Minister of Justice, Mr Drazen Bosnjakvoic. The national reform plan announced the merger of land books and catastras. In order to be able to implement the above, it is necessary to facilitate and simplify land-based library procedures for construction. What measures have been implemented so far and which are planned to be implemented and within what time limit. In conclusion, whether the measures implemented have really led to the relief of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47995	Thank you. Answer, Honorable Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47996	Your Honor, I thank you for this matter. You have opened the actual issue of real estate and real estate records in the Republic of Croatia, 2 basic records are land books, where real rights, property, cargo and other real rights related to real estate and the catastra itself, where real estate records are actually kept in those forms, surfaces and other technical characteristics. What has been done so far is extremely much. Over the past period, we have united and placed all data, land books and cadastres in one place, and this is a common information system. What is currently the biggest problem is the discrepancy of these data, so the data that is in the land books and those data that are in the cataster are not relevant to each other. We're going to solve this in a number of ways, one way is already in production one software that will recognize those that are identical and put them in one base. All that is different, I have to implement either the renovation of land books or individual land-based correct procedures or the establishment of certain parts of new land books. Just to bring you closer to how complex this is and in the Republic of Croatia we have about 14.5 million cadastrian particles that are distributed to some 3.5 thousand catastrian municipalities. So the measurements of all this individual arrival on the ground, the invitation of the registered owners, the invitation and those interested discussions with them, the exposure of all of this is one very complex and complicated procedure. In this spirit, to simplify all this because the legal certainty of real estate owners enables easier legal traffic of real estate, improving the investment climate in the Republic of Croatia is all important and all of this is important arranged land books. In order to make it easier and easier for us to get to that goal as soon as possible, here at the Croatian Assembly, it will be very soon in the second reading and amendments to the Law on Land Books that foresee certain easier and faster procedures when we are going to do the renovation of land books, when we are going to do individual land-book correct procedures. So much has been done so far, but the work that is before us is also extremely large and we have certain resources in Croatia, we have in municipal courts about 800 authorized land-book references and in these future processes we think more about using them because people are trained, have licenses, know how to handle and we will disburse the courts on that side, and we will get speed of the procedure. A whole series of measures are also foreseen in those laws that will be here in the second reading. In the first we went well, we made one so as to say a common consensus that the problem needs to be solved, now for the second reading we are trying to further add to the proposals that law improves. What citizens have already now, have the opportunity to get that electronic extract from land books, have an overview through electronic aid insight into land books, and we will continue to develop this system and I believe that within some appropriate time, we will get results, and the result is that we are interested in harmonising the data of land books and catastras on which we are working and that sort of functionally so to say and unity we are building very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47997	Thank you. The Honorable representative Davor Milicevic will be now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47998	I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u47999	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the respected representative Tomislav Liposcak, Minister of Agriculture Tomislav Tolusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48000	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and ministers. My question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Tomislav Tolusic, and it is related to a number of questions, which we often get from the field. In fact, while other EU countries are making abundant use of funds and funds for the benefit of their farmers and for the benefit of the people living in the country, living from agriculture, we often get the impression that the situation is slightly different and that things are not going at the speed that we would like to do. There are some answers waiting for months, and while farmers receive funding contracts very often, it is the equipment they plan to obtain, which they plan to buy withdrawn from the market and can no longer be obtained. My question is, how can we move forward if sometimes two years we have to wait for certain investment funds to be approved, and how can we develop agriculture in such a way, develop farmers and their competitiveness on the market, and until when will it be? Shouldn't we also protect our farmers, our farmers and agricultural production or continue to eat imported food that is very often high prices and suspicious or at least unknown quality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48001	Thank you. The response of the respected Agriculture Minister Tomislav Tolusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48002	Thank you to the honourable representative for asking the question. First of all, I would point out right at the beginning that this government is definitely taking care of the Croatian farmer, the Croatian peasant, to take care of Croatian products and, of course, the complete Croatian agricultural and food industry. Unfortunately, when we talk about the rural development programme, it means the money we're withdrawing from the EU funds, and they're related to the agriculture sector, the situation wasn't so great. First of all, I would point out that the programme was adopted during the SDP government, unfortunately a good year and a half too late compared to the deadlines in which it could have been adopted with extremely complicated procedures that were most complicated compared to all EU members. And unfortunately, in the period until the end of 2015, a very small percentage of the competitions announced, somewhere less than 7%, and what has been announced unfortunately was covered by large irregularities on dozens of criminal charges, suspicions of favoring large or party or some other companies, and this is today subject to investigation by both USKOK and all other bodies that take care of it. I'm surprised those SDP colleagues forgot to mention today. Today, or here is the data from 31.8.2017, of 2.4 billion euros, tendered for 1.1 billion euros means close to 50%, contracted 720 million euros, and over 30%, paid 400 million euros and close to 17% respectively. The procedures that were complicated we changed, we started applying new procedures since the summer of this year. It took us a while to see all those things that were complicated to make them one normal way and the first results of our procedures, the procedures of this government you could see at the fair in Gudovec, the tenders that were scheduled, or completed on 17 July of this year, the first contracts went out, or the first decision of 30.08. this year, 43 days, I guarantee that no EU member country has issued decisions within 43 days of the 700 days that it was before, I think that is still a certain shift in all this. What makes me also happy about all of this when we talk about the number of farmers, we primarily look at them through the unique requirements of incentive, so we're talking about farmers who are real farmers who have at least 1 hectare of land, such as for the last year in Croatia more, when we compete compared to last year in 2016. 101 thousand farmers who have applied for incentives, today there are 105 thousand. And what I am pleased to note among them is the growth of our young farmers who, through the Rural Development Programme and through other measures of the Government, are definitely giving all possible incentives to stay in Slavonia, Lica, Dalmatia, Međimurje, the Karlovak County or any other region of the Republic of Croatia. At a pace like this, under new procedures, I expect that we will spend the money from the rural development programme before the deadline set for us by the European Commission's rules and programmes. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48003	Tomislav Lipošak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48004	I thank you for your response, I am pleased with the answer and, in particular, with information, it means simplified procedures, fairer conditions of competitions and, of course, the increase in the number of young farmers using these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48005	Thank you, 20th question, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, the question points to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48006	Mr Plenkovic, was Ivica, Todorovic able to make Agrokor a company of this size, this size, and thus push the entire Croatian economy into problems without help or at least the failure of the executive authorities so far and the institutions? And I'd really like you to give me a clear, unequivocal answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48007	As you know, and we worked together to solve this problem, and I think you were both personally and a party entirely agreed to go with the Extraordinary Administration Act. I can say that Agrokor case is a symbol of Croatian economic transition. In the end, it will be very difficult for me as prime minister to speculate on political and possibly criminal legal responsibility throughout the process. What we want the whole process to light up, to preserve jobs, to see how certain business practices have taken place, which have resulted in a situation that you and I have become aware of about a little behind the new year. And so our efforts and in the process of restructuring the company go to the point that not only are all employees, not just everyone who is tied to the company, and you know that those who have incomes of up to 5.2 million kuna are paid in full when it comes to old debts to be paid in accordance with their legal deadlines. That a large, serious proportion of payments to those who are above this are also due to suppliers, to be part of the old debts, to be attended by key representatives in the religious council and to follow the restructuring process and to contribute to the completion of the entire operation that will take about 15 months. Could anyone have created all this alone, certainly not, a large number of people were involved in such a large company and as far as responsibility is concerned, I will let it go and we talked about it and while you were part of the authorities of those who are responsible for it and it is certainly not the executive authority, it is the judiciary and the Croatian State's Attorney's Office and the Croatian Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48008	Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48009	Well, I honestly have to say, I'm not impressed by your answer for the reason that you're very good at using the minutebook for your marketing and you're actually avoiding the answer. And what's the problem, just by avoiding giving a clear answer, what you think is actually saying that you know or at least suspect that someone like that should have helped the system. The legalist you like to present doesn't hide the crimes under the carpet, he clears them. And now I understand completely why you don't want to support the Assembly's investigation committee around Agrokor. You have a unique opportunity to clear up the situation in the Croatian economy, you have a unique opportunity to create good foundations. You're the one who decided not to wave tactics. But what I have to say today, which literally shocked me, is what I experienced in the House today on your part is something I believed to be a relic of former dark, unfortunate times. I'll quote you, you said at the very beginning, I can do whatever I want. You see Ivo Sanader, Ivo Sanader did what he wanted and even he didn't dare say it. Maybe, maybe you can do whatever you want, but you don't want to, at least for Agrocora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48010	We've come to the 21st question, now we'll take a break from 15 minutes to 12 hours. The representative Marijana Balic then continues with the question of Minister Gabrieli Žalac. It's 1 136 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48012	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Minister. I refer the issue to the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Mrs. Žalac. In the Government of Croatia's 2016-2020 programme, one of the main and priority objectives is the balanced development of all parts of Croatia within which, among other things, the adoption of a new Law on Supported Areas, amendments to the legislation aimed at the sustainable development of the island, the establishment of a Regional Development Fund and the amendment of the existing Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. With this in mind, my question is, what has the government done, that is, that is, to make the development of all parts of Croatia a reality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48013	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48014	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Representative Balic, Honored Representatives. I'm glad you asked this question. This government has done a lot in 2017 on the issue of precisely equal regional development in the Republic of Croatia. For the first time, we systematically approached the drafting and legislative proposals that will soon enter the assembly, yesterday the government adopted a draft of the Strategic Planning and Development Management Act. For the first time since the Republic of Croatia's significant legislation, we are about to reduce some of the strategic documents that we now have over 200 and national strategies over 1000 and something, the local strategy will certainly do and prescribe the creation of a national development strategy for the Republic of Croatia in the new financial perspective, i.e. we are looking at a 10-year period from 2021 to 2030. As regards legal regulations, there are also amendments to the Law on Regional Development, as well as the Law on Supported Areas, the New Law on Islands, the Law on the Development of the City of Vukovar, and the part relating to mountainous and mountainous areas, that is all that we will refer to and what we are working intensively in our ministry through the working groups of representatives of units of local and regional self-government, which, of course, here in Parliament and with you will discuss. I would also point out that the Regional Development Fund that you asked for, we released it right after last year's entry into service, the short corrections to the law on the implementation of the state budget, which was intended only for the co-financing fund of European projects, for pre-financing which was a problem at regional and local level. The Fund is no institution, the fund is therefore in the division of our budget and promotes all the activities you mentioned. For both islands and assisted areas and everything else. I must point out that in this year, this government has assigned local and regional self-government units under these programmes, over 267 million kunas, which is more than 4 years of SDP's government, and this tells all about how the government cares about the even development of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about assisted areas, the purpose of actually detaching Chapter 5 of the Regional Development Act into the new Law on Supported Areas, and it says that a new indexation that will take effect from 1.1.2018 will certainly be dimensioned and assisted by undeveloped parts. When we talk about European funds, I also have to look back on the results of this government. It is up to us as a coordinating body for funds in the Republic of Croatia to do everything possible to make the funds available to end-users as soon as possible. This government has agreed three times more funds than in the last three years together. What was left for the SDP mandate of the government is 3%, counterpart Tolusic as my predecessor, he raised the level of agreement to 9%. We are now at over 25.73% of the agreed European funds in this financial perspective. This tells all about the government's efforts and the establishment of the National Co-ordination Committee, the reporting of my, all ministers, every 2 weeks at the closed part of the government's session, what is happening, where tenders are, in which way we should approach growth and development because we think that the eu-funds are raising the level of GDP per capita in the Republic, and we are particularly making sure that the rules ensure that it is much simpler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48015	Thank you, Minister. The answer, dear colleague Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48016	Thank you very much. I am pleased with your answer and I thank you for your very comprehensive and quality answer and I am convinced that you will soon meet all the goals outlined to witness as soon as possible with equal development as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48017	Thank you very much. It is up to visiting counterpart Josko Klisovic, who is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48018	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister Hungary blocked Croatia's trip to the OECD. To put it mildly, we can consider it a step contrary to good neighbourly relations. If we want to be rude, we can say that this is an enemy step because it goes directly against Croatian interests. The Hungarians justified this by treating the Croatian judiciary of Mr Hernadi as well as the situation in the case of MOL INA. The president went to Budapest to ask for further explanations, and further explanations are that it is the protection of the national interests of Hungary, that it is not a politically motivated decision and that it is one move towards protecting the investment climate in Croatia. We all know very well that receiving into the OECD would actually be a good signal to the investment community to invest in Croatia, not to block Croatia in the OECD. My question to you is, do you consider these arguments of the Hungarian side, which the president has conveyed to the established, condescending or not? And the second question, might not be the result of such a move by Hungary that in the pre-election campaign in 2015, HDZ officials of the day are determined promises to Hungary that the issue of Hernadia and INA MOL will be resolved in some acceptable way. What, of course, could have a negative impact on the strategic Croatian company, or on the independence of the Croatian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48019	The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48020	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague Klisovic. As regards the clearly articulated position, unfortunately not only Hungary but also the Slovenian permanent representative of the EU at one of the meetings where it was discussed very in principle how to treat the request of three EU members, which are Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania and who have ambition and desire to become OECD members from the aspect of Croatia, the only remaining international organisation that qualify us in the development sense, in terms of legal certainty, economy, finance. So we're becoming given our size part of a club on top of which I don't know what else to do unless there's something new that we can become a member of. At EU level, there is a common position from 2007 which makes it very clear to Member States, especially those already members of the OECD, to support the ambitions of other EU members, and at this point not of the OECD. Therefore, such an attitude is contrary to the EU's common position, both Slovenia and Hungary. I find him guilty, wrong, and certainly not well-intentioned. We experienced a policy of blackmail, middle-blocking, that is, in the second half of the last decade when we engaged in EU accession from Slovenia, which resulted in an arbitration agreement, and now we see what stage we are in. Such a signal in the way it was transmitted and in the very statement and what the president of the Republic of Croatia commented is not good for us. And in conversations with the Hungarian side, we will certainly want that attitude to change. Croatia and Hungary may have open issues, but it is said that opposition to Croatia's OECD membership is not good, and we have made that clear to our new ambassador, who has been sent to Hungary these days, to convey such a message. As for your illusion of the 2015 campaign and the alleged kind of promise that this issue will be resolved by some other means you know our principled position that all activities of the Croatian judiciary are independent of what the executive authority is doing. On the other hand, the very complex relations that we have with Hungary today are, in one way or another, conditioned by the dynamics of solving this one knot that we can call INA MOL, and now, he's spilled it like the OECD ring, and the European Court of Human Rights, and the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, and earlier in Interpol. I see it as a follow-up to the multilateralisation of INA issues by Hungary in various forums. And it didn't surprise me, but I'm certainly not a gesture expected from two countries that need to resolve open issues. In our dialogue with Hungary, too, we will seek first and foremost to remove such an attitude, and on the other hand to address the issue of INA's MOL.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48021	Thank you. Comrade Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48022	I say please and a written answer to these questions, since I believe that the Prime Minister and HDZ need more time to contact the actors who led these negotiations then, or the talks to the Hungarians in pre-election time, to determine whether the promises are some days, promises that are not realised today, which are why the Hungarians are blocking our entry into the OECD. As far as we know, you mentioned Slovenia, so other relations with our neighbours, we must also conclude that despite what was announced in 2015 that the SDP government has made them worse today we have significantly worse relations with our neighbours than we had in 2015 because at that time we had no blockade either by Hungary or by one act towards Croatia, nor a blockade by Slovenia, nor did we have such rhetoric from Belgrade with presses like President Vukic when he was either prime minister or when he was now president di-Croatia refers to everything and everything. We haven't heard that rhetoric since the Homeland War. Not to mention BiH, which has already been agreed on, for which funding has been pushed away, again wakes up and sends certain messages to Croatia. Confirming that the state of relations is not how it should be and de facto is worse than we had in 2015. So, an active engagement of the Croatian foreign policy of the government is absolutely necessary, much more intense than we have, to bring this situation into its proper state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48023	Next is counterpart Ivan Vilibor Sincic, and he raises the question to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48024	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My question today is for the diameter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic. In the famous tax reform at the end of last year, at the very beginning of your 16-year term, the Law on Local Taxes was amended. One of the items that was listed inside was real estate tax. However, although you have praised this reform to disburse citizens, it will not relieve citizens, it is especially that property tax that is so on private property. It is a great burden that many of our citizens will not be able to bear, and I believe that you have now understood for yourself. Maybe not because you've actually made repeated calculations, but because there's a public resistance. The citizens have understood, even a large part of your voters, that this law is against them. And they won't bring the real estate market back to life, but they'll put it down even more and slow it down. So my question to you is. First you gave the law in the procedure, now you're pulling it, or, as far as I'm aware, you've put in the procedure of the Law on Local Taxes, which simply doesn't have all those items concerning real estate taxes, what your next moves are, which is the policy of this government. Are you for that kind of tax or not for that kind of tax? Will you install these items in another law, under another name, not to be accidentally included, say the referendum that we are preparing, a referendum that should prevent, not only from you, but from any future government, to touch the property of Croatian citizens in the properties that are the consequences of past generations in this country. We don't want to agree to the fact that there's a message being sent that whoever has something, that it's a fool and that he needs to take it through his taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48025	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48026	Sincic, on a question relating to the Government yesterday, adopted a draft Law amending the Law on Local Taxes, where the Government referred to the Council of Amendments which would delete the provisions of the law which should have been laid down in that section on 1.1.2018, which referred to the property tax. So this is a topic that has caused an extremely public road storm, a lot of reactions, a lot of lively communication on social networks, a lot of engagements of certain associations, parties. You're probably, like most other citizens, paying a communal fee. So, the intensity of this law, which got exactly that name of real estate tax, was that in one tax or compulsory, you can also call it that, the unit and the current communal fee, the monumental rent, and the holiday home tax, which we pay today, all those who of course have it. And here I want to very clearly underline, the government has approached this topic in a way that we did not want to introduce the value of real estate tax, as I know many EU members, or many other countries. Such value, tax, would significantly burden the property owners. The intention of this law that we will now practically put into that segment out of force. It was to enforce the principle of righteousness, simplicity, and proportionality. However, in the process of debate in that law that was in that large package, we can really say that a large part of the Croatian public was focused on some other laws within the tax form. And if this guy's been through relatively, we could say that under the radar. The government has made a clear and firm political decision for legal certainty. Therefore, the law or tax on real estate will not be. What we want, and since it was an intrinsicity, that the incomes of this tax were the unintended incomes of the local and regional self-government, therefore an important distinction, is not about the tax going to the central state, but about the compensation, the obligation, which went to the units of local and regional self-government. We believe that in the next year, for a year and a half, one reasoned, engaged, full-time, professional, through the activities of the Ministry of Construction under the authority of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Col. Stromar. Possible amendments to the Law on the municipal economy, where it would be very precise, defined and included, communal fees. Where very precise regulation would be done, therefore, the property concerned and where a much more thorough and detailed fiscal impact would be assessed for the units of local self-government on any modification, current, communal fees, monumental rents and taxes for dogs on vacation. Therefore, we have made a very firm political decision here, we believe that it is correct, that the culture of real estate in the Croatian society is such a step, that rather than a reasoned debate of this topic very emotionally, and these topics require both knowledge and time and arguments of all those involved in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48027	Thank you. Reply by colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48028	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I can say that I am very pleased with your answer is what I expected you to say. It's not a neck, it's not a tax anymore, and it's not a local tax law anymore, it's going to be something else in some other law someday, probably very soon, but it's going to have to be paid anyway. So we changed our name, but that's something we have to pay for again. Here I'm ordering from this place that you make the move, we'll make the countermove, now make the move again, we'll make the countermove. Maybe this question we've been formulating for the referendum now because of your move is useless, but it doesn't matter we'll come up with a new one. We'll follow what you're doing. Our extraordinary project in which I call for all those who believe that the Croatian man is too burdened with taxes will follow what you do and will always be one step ahead of you. The resistance won't give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48029	Thank you. We're moving on to the next question. Dear counterpart Branko Bacic is asking the Prime Minister a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48030	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government, while I ask you this question in the Croatian roads, the opening process takes place on a public tender for the construction of the Pelješke Bridge. At the same time, numerous citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular my Dubrovnik-Neretva County, ask me and are concerned about the further realization of the construction of the Pelješko Bridge, given the statements made by Bakra Izetbegovic of the SDA leadership, as well as the earlier yesterday non-binding declaration of the parliamentary House of BiH, which in its own way opposes the further construction of the Pelješki Bridge. I would like to remind you that in 1999, this Assembly adopted the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which established the necessity of building the Peljev Bridge. That same year, an agreement on the Tudjman-Izetbegovic border was signed on the basis of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea to which the SDA leadership is today called, which established the limit on the basis of the equivalence in the Bay of Maloston and the definition of BiH's law as a maritime state. Afterwards, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided in 2004 to build the Peljevo Bridge, taking into account two rights. The right of the Republic of Croatia to build on its territory the Pelješki bridge and bring together two separate areas of the Republic of Croatia and, on the other hand, the right of the harmless passage of BiH under that bridge for ships of reasonable acceptable size. After that, dozens of meetings of representatives of the Croatian government and representatives of BiH were held, including representatives of the European Commission where the need was defined, the obligation to join two parts of the Republic. My question, Mr. President, is it possible that BiH will stop building the Pelješko Bridge in view of the statements made by Bakir Izetbegovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48031	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48032	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bačić, the simple answer is no. So in these slightly less than 11 months since I was a Prime Minister seven times in BiH, here is what our fellow MPs who represent Croats outside of Croatia are practically all elected from BiH, and I think that as a government and in the political sense of support, dialogue, the European pathway of transferring reform experiences of concrete projects, particularly funded through the Central State Office for Croats outside Croatia, we have given countless signals as to how important our survival is, the survival of the Croatian people as an equal and constitutive in BiH. I think it's recognized, I think it's appreciated, I think you can see it. But we have also made major steps in direct dialogue with the country’s central authorities. The first visit was to Sarajevo, a joint session of the government and the BiH Council of Ministers held in Sarajevo on 7 July, where we passed a catalogue of more than 50 topics of common interest. One of the topics was the Peljega Bridge, and then just before we arrived at the initiative of a smaller party in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, a declaration that indicated a kind of request for action, I would say not the institutions but parts of political parties in BiH, that is very important. We must be very well aware of who makes decisions that have legal implications in BiH's constitutional architecture. Our goal to connect the southern part of Dubrovnik-Neretva County with the rest of Croatia is our strategic project that was not exactly agreed at the beginning, but eventually it became a project generally accepted by all political actors in Croatia. This is one specific individual project that has the highest value when it comes to EU funds. Here is Minister Žalac, in Brussels a few months ago with Romanian Commissioner Corinne Creñu, signed and the act the European Commission has said we have completed all the procedures, all the verifications, the feasibility studies from 201.4., we have looked at all aspects and we want to co-finance this strategic project with 357m euros. You who come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and everyone else living in that county know what that bridge means in terms of traffic connection, but what it means for the citizens of Neum. That those 12, 13km through which during the season should be passed through the large wait caps at the border I'm sure the people of Neuma would profit if there was an alternative direction. The bridge itself has a gauge height of 55 meters, a passageway for ships 200 meters. I don't know what kind of ship that ship should be headed for Neum through our territorial waters without being able to get under the Peljesca Bridge that's only 10 meters lower than the bridge on Bosporus. That's an interesting piece of information. So you're going to the Black Sea, you can have a maximum height of 64 meters, just like that on the bench to get through. And here to get to Neum you have 54. I think whatever we need to explain to our friends in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we're going to realize the project, the '99 border contract. It has not been ratified but it is a project that will be realised and agreed with the BiH side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48033	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question, dear colleague Steve Culey. Answer, I'm sorry, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48034	Thank you, Mr. President, for your agreement. I would add a few more facts that seem to me to be of no less importance, which is personally in 2006, in Sarajevo on 7 December signed the document as head of the working group of the Croatian government and what is important to say, the elements of the Most, its height and breadth of the waterway are determined on the BiH proposal. This is very important to say, therefore, BiH itself has shown its demand for what kind of bridge and dimensions of the waterway that the bridge determines, what heights should be. Afterwards, in BiH, Sarajevo, Neum, in Mostar, we held several discussions on the aspect of protection primarily of the marine environment on the basis of and after the construction of the Peljev Bridge and the duration of the construction of the Peljega Bridge. And what's important is to say, it is also that the head of Neum municipality, Mr. Matusko and the mayor of Herzegova County Mr. Herceg and the Assembly of the County and the Council of Neum support the construction of the Peljega Bridge because they hold that the construction of the Peljega Bridge is a presumption of the development of Neum municipality and of the entire Hercegovina-Neretva County. It is therefore in the interest of the Croats in BiH and I keep in the interest of BiH is the construction of the Peljega Bridge, and thus a traffic cap is being solved and the southern part of Croatia is better connected than it is today and thus enables the development of the entire area. That is why I am sure that here we are, together and in our talks with BiH, will approach the realisation of the Peljega Bridge and I thank Minister Butkovic for the accelerated activities surrounding the construction of the Peljega Bridge recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48035	Thank you. Here is my colleague Culej, who asks the question of Croatian Defence Minister Tom Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48036	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Croatian Defence Ministers, it is common knowledge of your work and the efforts you make for the welfare of all Croatian defenders through the laws on Croatian defenders, but I will ask you a question and I will talk about those who are most responsible, about those who cannot speak for themselves. So I'm going to ask you a question in addition to all these ideological and secular issues that you've had to worry about these days how many of you and what have you been doing about the prisoners and the missing in the Homeland War, which are the most significant results achieved in the search for prisoners and missing in the Homeland War in the term of this government?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48037	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48038	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr. Culej, the missing persons in the Homeland War are one of the most painful and lasting consequences of the Homeland War, lighting their fates is one of the primary tasks of the Croatian Defence Ministry, specifically the administration for prisoners and missing in the ministry. We're doing professional work looking for missing persons from the remains of the mortal victims of the Homeland War. Despite all the efforts made by the Republic of Croatia at this time, it is searching for 1533 missing persons and the remains of 419 people killed, which is a total of 1952 persons wanted from the Homeland War area. In the term of office of the government, the Croatian Defence Ministry has taken a wide range of activities aimed at resolving this priority issue. We have strengthened cooperation with families and associations that gather families of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders in order to share new opportunities to improve the search process. We have intensified and strengthened inter-resorship cooperation and resolution of the fate of missing persons, a complex issue that cannot be subject to the work of only one body but a coordinated process of several competent institutions that can fully, transparently, effectively and adequately respond to all these challenges. In this context, it is important to note that the May decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a committee for prisoners and missing persons participating in all relevant bodies, institutions and organisations in the state which are dealing with the issue of missing persons in their work. Since October last year, we have collected knowledge of 55 possible places of hidden mass and individual tombs in the 10 counties area. We conducted a full field survey at 42 locations, where 68 people were found and exhumed. We've conducted field reconnaissance at 66 other possible sites, mass and individual tombs, which are under way for analytical and operational processing. We've organized six identifications that eventually identify the remains of 60 people. With activities directly focused on solving the missing persons' case, the ministry is intensively developing bilateral relations and is working on signing the protocol as a prerequisite for establishing true cooperation in solving the missing persons' case. So in BiH, we have listed a protocol on the co-operation of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, followed by the signing of a protocol from the government of Montenegro. However, we must stress that a key obstacle to the effective resolution of the largest number of cases is missing, a lack of accurate information on unregistered sites of mass and individual tombs from the Homeland War, and with key documentation on this issue is available to the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48039	Thank you. Answer, here you go, colleague Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48040	Dear Minister, I am pleased with your answer and I will give you a proposal that I believe will support most parliamentary representatives because on the left and right, those who were in the Homeland War as Croatian defenders and who have an affirmative view of what they created and that is the Croatian state. In the end, you said there was a lot of documentation missing from which it would show where the cemetery and those who had disappeared. To encourage the other side, which is Serbia, which has committed aggression on our country of Croatia, in which there was no civil war, but we have been attacked by Serbia and assisted by Serbia with domestic terrorists have done what they have done, and what we are now investigating through your ministry. So I'm asking a question here to all of us, when and at what time and in what extent are we going to ask the question of war damage from Serbia and give them the incentive to move on as soon as possible to find our missing and imprisoned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48041	Thank you. We move to issue 26, MP Marko Vučetic asks the Prime Minister his question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48042	Thank you. It's a question for the Prime Minister. In early 2017, the government appointed a special expert commission for the implementation of science education, science and technology education strategy, based on the criteria of expertise and plurality, these are complementary and only possible criteria that need to be met when it comes to this topic. But then there was something that was the simplest thing to call it political gossip. And this political gossip was determined by the sad face of the fate of the Croatian education reform. I'm asking you now, Prime Minister, if you realize that political gossip has brought into question the unquestionable and that's the expertise of the expert commission. The expertise that has arisen beyond all politics and politics. I'm asking you, do you realize that education and education reform rests on the anti-cipulation of a better world? This better world cannot be closed to political agreements because these political agreements are driven by the principle of bitterness and bitter maintenance. Education isn't. Politics is in theory is often called endogenous hermanic deception. What's she doing? She's hiding. Education exposes and brings to the truth, it traines, it participates in freedom. And so I ask you, are you aware that while you are delaying this post of prime minister, which is a political function that, in the interests of public interest, you must necessarily protect education and education reform from all these political perversions of truth?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48043	Thank you, Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48044	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Vučetić, for this question, which affects the topic concerning all of us, which is the future of our children and the process of educational reform. First of all, I'm gonna take this moment to say that when I just said I can do what I want, I thought I could say what I want because it's hard to replicate to you after those two extra minutes and sometimes there's a part of what's left without an answer. Therefore, it was not a signal of arrogance and arrogance but perhaps of a small unfavourable business position in which we are on this side. But you're right. You are right when you say that in early 2017, in cooperation with the Minister of Science and Education at the time, I insisted that the special expert commission as foreseen in the strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament in November 2014, unlike the previous Commission, I think of the Government of then Prime Minister Milanovic, because there was no strategy in this government between it, to draw him up from respected people from the academic community, different worldview, different political options, to try to bring our views closer to what is one of the basic tasks of the special expert commission, which is to draw up a two-year action plan relating to the implementation of the strategy. And so, in my best interest in this process, I included 11 people who did their job in a committed manner, they finished their opus last week, and they handed over to me and the new minister an action plan that was agreed on, which is one document of over 200 pages, with thoroughly elaborated measures, so one table document, with the greatest agreement possible. It is not easy on the issues of education that are necessary to have their ideological connotation and to achieve a quite 100% consensus. I agree with you that there has been too much political gossip in the public on this subject. It is a topic that has caused twice in the last two years a large number of Croatian citizens on the streets according to my deep conviction unwarrantedly. And I think that we all have to make an effort together so that this doesn't happen again, that in the implementation of the educational reform we try to build a consensus. I think that now that we have concluded this part of the PSP's work, we will approach the modification of its work to give greater importance and even greater priority to educational reform. I must admit that I even had some small reserves of my own whether it was quite appropriate for one such body to be placed exclusively in the hands of the Prime Minister. I didn't adopt that reform then, I mean the 2014 Strategy. The government puts a framework, and then the Prime Minister chooses who he wants inside. It was brought by the Croatian Parliament. However, I would like to include all those who have both the institutional title and the expertise to enable the future expert working group to continue working on curriculative reform, but also all other groups, because this strategy provides for a huge number of working groups to work on different segments of education. The agreement between the government's political partners, given that circumstances have changed, including the minister, is such that we will approach this modification to ensure plurality in the future, and your contribution is both professional and representatively welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48045	Thank you. Here's my colleague Vučetic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48046	... And that collective imagination in a way that you've taken on many identities from the Prime Minister through the Enlightenment, to this protagonist of collective imagination. [[Specially enabled.]] Baudelaire's here now comes to mind that a list of human rights should include two. The first is that a man contradicts himself, and the second is that he has the opportunity to leave. The fact that many leave Croatia is evident to us, but I would ask you, as little as possible, to consume this right to be in conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48047	Thank you. The next is distinguished counterpart Mario Habek, who asks the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48048	Dear Prime Minister, it is clear from your ratings and media reports that your honeymoon has passed as far as citizens and media are concerned. Namely, after you took office as prime minister in less than a year, you managed to raise the price of electricity, although HEP is operating with profits. I guess that's why you'd better privatize him. We pay a more expensive toll 10%, so you boast how HAC's income has increased, and when the fire you call attractive and interesting drivers is being fueled by your concern, the Minister's care is almost drowning from smoke and fire because you don't want to raise the ramps. You've increased VAT from 13% to 25% for the host population. In Split you raise the cut to the maximum amount etc. etc. And now in that flood of carelessness for the standard of citizens comes news and about the collection of water. Please respond to me and the entire Croatian public as Prime Minister, but there will be a collection of water for our citizens, but also for the businessmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48049	The Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48050	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48051	The answer of his colleagues, Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48052	Thank you. I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48053	28 questions, dear colleague Mladen Karlic. The question is raised by Minister of Health Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48054	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Minister and Minister. I would like to ask my question to Mr. Kujundzic, as a representative, as a doctor, but also as a potential patient. We are all somehow aware of relatively long waiting lists for individual operational procedures, diagnostic tests, specialist examinations and that is something that is somehow difficult to resolve not only in Croatia, but also in other countries given different objective and subjective circumstances such as the number of specialists doctors, the number of devices, I do not know the space needed. But, of course, the wishes of all patients or co-assurances to get the best, most expensive or most sophisticated equipment and search that would somehow prove that they are most healthy, preferable than sick. I'm interested in you starting a priority waiting list project a few months ago that should actually provide something between the most urgent ones going straight for search, surgery, and those who might be coming to check-ins, check-outs and others who are seriously ill, and are not the most urgent. I'm curious because there's contradictory information to some people that this is an extraordinary, good solution, and some people don't find it effective. I'd like you to answer that which is actually true, which is the right answer and what it means to our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48055	Health Minister Kujundzic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48056	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. MP and Dr. Karlic thank you very much for this request. In fact, when we started this pilot project three months ago, it's gonna be exactly three months ago, there was a lot of misunderstandings, woods, so if you're going to be clumsy, maybe us from the ministry. So certain attacks were followed primarily by those who did not understand, and perhaps we did not know how to communicate well. Today, when three months have passed, when we have done a pilot project, that is, in ten days, it expires in 4 Zagreb hospitals and about 500 offices in Zagreb and Zagreb's ring, we can say the following. That ten days ago we gathered all the stakeholders and those who at first understood him a little better, who did not and who praised him and defiled him, agreed that it was actually a very good project. That this is a project that we are analizing or minimally bringing down to a minimum of difficult i.e. serious patients. You as a doctor understand, unfortunately others did not understand. Emergency patients, they're going the same way in no time. CT operating rooms, defibrillators and serious patients, mean about 500, 600 serious patients suspected of serious cardiovascular disease, suspected of serious neurological diseases, suspected of lymphomas, malignancies, etc. They're saved. So such patients in Croatia will no longer wait. In 3 days, when their doctors, who have so far proven themselves to be numerous with the knowledge and care of patients, recognize the history of clinical status, on the basis of certain findings of a particular disease, they have the possibility in their computer to provide them with an examination within 3 days, by the competent specialist in each hospital, and this competent specialist provides them with diagnostic and therapeutic procedures within 15 days. And this way we believe, this 3 months, that it doesn't now count by groups of lymphomas, malignants, etc. at a relatively early stage, the stage when the disease is still treatable I believe to save or at least give the patients a much greater chance. Finally, with the project that has been piloted so far, we're leaving in about a month. We are already in negotiations with information houses, in all Croatian hospitals and will be available to all Croatian patients. And in this way, we believe, that although we are singled out only 750 euros per capita, compared to those who are even 10 times bigger, we will monitor and better preserve the lives of Croatia, than we have so far been able to do and I think this is a project that will very quickly be felt by all Croatian citizens and benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48057	Here you go, colleague Karlić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48058	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for this information. I do, too, but I especially think it's important for the doctor, and also for the patients who listen to this, to feel safe, that they can still come and won't have to wait for months. And I especially think it's important to work out the best criteria, to involve all doctors in all of our health care associations, and to actually create the best model of this kind of priority waiting list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48059	Thank you. The 29th question, dear colleague Dragica Roscic, asks Minister of State Property Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48060	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the revised plan, i.e. the Strategic Plan of the Ministry of State Assets, for the period 2017-2019 which you brought in May this year, you predicted that you would make a profit in the state budget in 2017, amounting to 1.7 billion kuna, which is an increase compared to that plan, which you brought in 2016 for 2017 when it cost 1.4 billion kuna. Given the signs in some media that this plan is difficult to meet, I am interested, or can you tell us here how the implementation of the plan is going and will we succeed in carrying out the plan?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48061	Thank you. Minister Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48062	Thank you very much, President. The esteemed representative Rosčoc, when it comes to the fulfilled obligation of the Ministry of State Assets, amounting to a billion and 400 million kuna, based on the management plan of state property, and the revised plan of billions and 800 million kuna, is certainly not to be questioned by the implementation of these obligations. At 12.9, a billion and 200 million kuna were already made. Although we didn't have... Periods, although the ministry had no time for broader insight into the state of the resort, we decided to show what state property means and we will surely meet all our obligations by the end of the year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some arbitrary evidence in the public has indeed proved to be empty and arbitrary. The Ministry of State Property is not an escalating house, nor is the minister of entertainment in the house, but the ministry is doing its job seriously and will be responsible for carrying out all its obligations. When it comes to these inscriptions, here is an inscription and MP Miletic has been called on, that the new draft law on state property management will actually be at the expense of local self-government. And that the law stipulates that the Republic of Croatia is not paying a municipal fee for its properties, which is not true. This law goes so far in favour of local self-government and so much financial benefits brings to local self-government, as all previous laws together have not done so much for local self-government. And it is not true that the law states that the RH will be excluded from paying the municipal fee. That provision is in existing law. And in the new law, there is no provision at all, nor does this new law on state property management regulate tax or municipal compensation. That should be regulated by other laws. Although we are only in the first year of existence as a new institution, in relation to state property and financial liabilities, the Ministry of State Property will show that it has introduced new standards in relation to state property management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48063	Thank you. Dear Representative Rosčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48064	Minister, thank you for your response and clarification although the plan is demanding we see that everything is going according to plan, i.e., we can conclude this from the data you provided and the expectations are that the plan is fully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48065	Thank you. The next question, it will be the respected representative of Rezimir Varda, who was referred to by Minister of State Property Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48066	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. I ask the question, Minister of State Property to the respected Mr. Goran Maric. In fact, in my youth, I often swallowed science fiction especially between the preparation of college exams, but what happens around the island of Smokvica Mala for me is a real science fiction. Namely, the concession contract was signed with Grafoplast Company in '95. In 2006, he sold the contract to Mr. Ivica Todorovic, so he returned it to him in April this year without compensation for the concession and use of the maritime goods for a single day. So even though the state declared the contract invalid in 2007 and sent the competent court in Sibenik after a year to the exercise only now the court in Sibenik reacts and brings the performance of the order scheduled for 27 September this year. So according to your statement, Mr. Minister, 200 million kuna went out of date, and about 35 million kuna with interest to collect. So I wonder if they'd do the same thing to the so-called so-called. to ordinary citizens, how many citizens would not be in the business or ask how it is possible that this happened and what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48067	Thank you. The respected Minister of State Property Goran Maric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48068	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed representative Varda, unfortunately the story of Smokvica is not science fiction, it is a real story, it is a story of one of the typical faces of modern Croatia. She is not a lipo, she is not a good one and she certainly is not a good voice for Croatia. I wish she had never entered the foundation of my knowledge and my experiences and no collective experience, and you started out well in 1995 with a contract to rent a military complex on the island of Smokvica with Company Grafoplast signed a contract signed by the Municipality of Primosten. The Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence filed a complaint against such a contract, and only 12 years after that, the first ruling of the Municipal Court in Sibenik became final after 14 years in 2009. Until the formation of the Ministry of State Property nothing, almost nothing was taken to return to the property because the ruling proved that the contract was void, illegal and that within 15 days the island of Smokvica must be returned to the property of the Republic of Croatia. Immediately on the first days of the established Ministry of State Property, we carried out an evaluation of the military complex on Smokvica and on the basis of this assessment, the rental fee was established and the use of maritime goods, which in five years amounted to those five years which did not go into obsolescence and... Twenty-six million kuna with a tight interest rate of 35 million kuna. The Ministry of State Property filed a claim for the collection of the claim through the State's Attorney's Office. At the same time, we also applied to the State's Attorney's Office to take all measures to return the complex of military on Smokvica to ownership of the Republic of Croatia in the possession of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. Nothing has been done for a long time, but here is the final hearing scheduled for 27.9. for another two weeks on which the island of Smokvica will be returned to the property of the Republic of Croatia. We often beat ourselves up European attributes and that we are European shrew, spirit and we are by many specifics of European and spiritual and cultural and historical, but according to our property, according to the property of the Republic of Croatia we are not Europe, we are far from Europe. The practice so far with regard to the treatment of the property of the Republic of Croatia was approximately four, that it was abandoned and inactive, that it was used unlawfully, that it was used without compensation for use or that it was given with a minimum fee. With such practice, the Ministry of State Property has broken down, the Ministry of State Property will introduce and have already introduced a standardised relationship that includes the highest standards of public, economics, efficiency and ethics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48069	Thank you. Dear Representative Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48070	Mr. Minister, from your answer, I've actually read your commitment that you won't give up. I believe you have the support of the entire government, but I believe you have both pressures and threats. Don't give up. I'd love to, and I'd like to get into a situation on this Smokvice Male case so the state doesn't get a fig tree or a pomegranate to tell me in Dalmatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48071	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Marijan Kustic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48072	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have a question for Mr Davor Bozinovic's interior minister. This summer, we witnessed a number of fires on our beautiful shores that have caused great damage to our citizens, and there are doubts that some of these fires have been set. So here's a question for you, do the police have any knowledge of it and if there's anything you've done about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48073	Thank you. The respected interior minister Davor Bozinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48074	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, Mr. Vice President. As you yourself said the fire situation this summer was very complex, I would say it may be the most demanding in at least the last decade. As we see some figures, for example, that there were 3700, more than 3700 fires just in the coast. This is about a 50% increase compared to a year-on-year average. There is a large area of fire, huge damage and it is more than it was in earlier years, this year about 85,000 acres of fire-fighting plant in the Republic of Croatia, which reportedly leads us to think and think about what are all the possible reasons. It is not necessary to ignore the fact that this summer was a long dry period that was practically all summer if you followed it as either very dry or extremely dry, it was the same with temperatures and the same with warnings coming from the competent institutions from the hydrometerological institution to the State Protection and Rescue Authority. Additional natural reasons are probably also phenomena associated with climate change, with large winds that have made it difficult and impossible to localise the fires and very often the use of especially the air force of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. What is a fact which is that the system reacted to maximum well in these circumstances, there were no human casualties and there were no more serious damage to critical infrastructure, economic facilities and housing, and therefore Croatia differs from more or less all Mediterranean countries that faced fires this year but not these results when it comes to protecting people and property. All the components contributed, about 19 thousand firefighters, the Croatian Air Force, with dedicated infantry and, of course, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, the Red Cross, various emergency services and, of course, the police, who may have had the most diverse task, because other than having participated in some major fires, for example in Split and in shutting down also had to work all the time to maintain public order and peace, transport in exceptional circumstances, evacuation of the population where it was necessary and to discover possible perpetrators of the work. And to be very specific in answering your question, the police showed this summer, I would say high efficiency in the sense of detecting the perpetrators of crimes, about 70 criminal research has been conducted and 30 perpetrators have been discovered which I think is in if we were to work some comparison with earlier periods of absolutely huge increase. There are also 476 perpetrators who have been punished this year for acts that are related to non-compliance with the rules of fire laws and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48075	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Kustic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48076	Thank you very much. Here I am pleased with your answer, of course, and I congratulate you on all the results you have achieved and certainly and citizens when they hear your answer now that you are providing them with a safe and better safety and greater security.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48077	Thank you. The 32nd question, distinguished counterpart Domagoj Mikulic, raises the issue to the minister of administration, Lovri Kuštevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48078	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government with the ministers. My question goes to the Minister of Management, Mr Kuštević. We are all witnessing that in 2012 the then Government of Zoran Milanovic has introduced certain changes that have introduced certain and riots in the functioning of local units. Political instability has also resulted in poor, bad project organisations, numerous early elections and perhaps the most important undefined relations between representative bodies and leaders themselves. We read in the media these days that new amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government and Regional Self-Government are under way in your ministry. And my question concerns these very announced changes, which we can expect and are interested in our local leaders. How do you intend to fix the system itself and correct the mistakes that have occurred and allow local and regional self-government to function better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48079	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48080	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues of parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. You said well, Mr. Representative, that the functioning of units of local and regional self-government is one of the fundamental issues of development of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, it is rare that local and regional self-government units are the first contact of our citizens with the general state, and it is very important that they function as they should and do the jobs for which they are established. Here, we have seen that the current law, so the applicable law has a series of gaps, that a lot of these things can be better defined. And to encourage this, the government of the Republic of Croatia has launched changes and additions to the law. One of the most important things is precisely the relationship between the representative authorities and the executive authorities during the adoption of the budget. We have defined three possible scenarios here, so disbanding only the representative body, disbanding only the mayor, the chief, so the head, or at the same time disbanding depends on the specific situation. We have defined that the head of the body must propose a budget which so far was only an option, so that it must propose a draft budget within the legal time limit, we have enabled smaller units of local self-government to be a different structure than it has been so far. There is a riot in the entire Republic of Croatia over a council fee of several hundred to several thousand kunas. We have also introduced certain changes in order to balance these council fees. In some things, we will even reduce the authority of the leaders, the leaders who are here unfortunately some media call local sheriffs, and that certainly is not so, these are people who have been elected by their fellow citizens in democratic direct elections. For example, we will reduce their powers regarding the disbanding of local committees and such matters. Then, Commissioner, for example, we have set out exactly who may be the Commissioner, what conditions must be met and when appointed Commissioner. We've determined a slightly different relationship between volunteers, so the body leader whether he's a volunteer or not, at which point he can change his decision about whether he'll still be a volunteer. We also regulated the conditions under which early elections can be called, so not only in the pre-election year that they cannot, i.e. in the election year that they cannot be called, but also in other conditions. Here is a clear possibility for all members of the representative bodies to be able to do so on the day when the sessions of the body are held, so that they can take the unpaid absence from work, which so far has not been clearly specified, so we have had examples of certain employers here and thus deny and thus is a denial of direct and democracy. So, all these proposals, so draft laws, we worked in close coordination with the academic community, with the association of municipalities, cities, counties, of course experts from the Ministry of Administration and colleagues throughout the government. In what day, I think, at the beginning of next week, there will be e-consultation, so I take the opportunity here to invite you personally, all the representatives and the entire public to participate, we expect good proposals, remarks, criticisms, and indeed our goal is to make a quality law that will enable political stability, political stability for what? Because our fellow citizens do not often go to elections, but that these leaders and representative bodies, our units of local and regional self-government, do what they are chosen to do, implement projects, withdraw funds from the EU, in one word achieve the preconditions for a better life for our citizens to create new jobs. Here we are open to further comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48081	Thank you. Comrade Mikulić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48082	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, I am pleased with the answer, and the fact is that there are certain failures and I am glad that there are also wishes in your ministry for you to miss the same ID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48083	Thank you. There are 7 more questions left, in 33rd place is distinguished colleague Marija Puh, the question is referred to the Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48084	Thank you, Mr. President. So since education is the only provision for our future and we are all aware that we need a school for life and for a better future and for our children and our country, I want to ask my question to the Minister of Science and Education Mrs Blaženko Divjak. Given the overall and comprehensive curricula reform programme, and the mandatory information that is one important reform process, and because of the many insinuations that impale the media these days, I would like to ask the minister one specific question, which is do we have enough resources? Are our teachers trained enough? Do we have enough equipment as far as our schools are concerned? In addition, did he have sufficient financial resources to implement this part of the reform process or that the introduction of information will be carried out in good time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48085	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48086	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank the MPs for this question, I think it's time to actually get all our... So I think it's time that all Croatian schools with an emphasis on all stepping out in the 21st century. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And in that sense, what the Ministry of Science and Education is preparing for next year are two pilot projects. One horizontal, this is the introduction of information in all the 5th and 6th classes of primary schools in the Republic, and the other means vertical, knew how to pilot at a certain percentage of schools, means complete curricular reforms. What we take as a base is the documentation that has been prepared, which hundreds of our experts, teachers, teachers, teachers have prepared and will continue to work on. What is, here, the content of your question is mainly about information, surely these documents are well prepared, that there have been relatively few suggestions, remarks and public debates. At this point we have translated these documents into English and we will look and we are already in contact with European countries that are successful in this area to review and help us further improve this documentation. A committee was established to prepare, monitor, plan and evaluate the pilot next year. What's important now is that we actually evaluate the ability and our schools, to introduce it means that we have to introduce information for all the 5th and 6th classes, so these are on one side resources teacherly, so how many teachers we need in the next period. Then the need for additional education because let's not forget it's a completely different program completely different than the existing one. This program actually makes disks go into history and we practically work exclusively on developing digital skills, competences, interdisciplinary approaches. And our students will work on a modern approach in information that will include, among other things, creative innovative development and the inclusion of information and information technology and in all the items that mean, which are at school. Of course, the emphasis will also be placed on our students being secure users, meaning modern technologies and certainly apostrophe. As far as planning is concerned, the equipment of schools has been allocated, i.e. in the budget this year, and we have provided equipment where it is most urgent and new funds are being prepared for next year and this is how the budget is planned. But a great deal of our resources come from European funds. One big project, it's an e-school project is currently in full swing. A project with 300, with a budget of about 300 million kuna. It'll be over next year. After that, the next project is being prepared with almost a billion kuna and we believe that in cooperation, the CARNET means with these projects, the Ministry of Exclusion from the state budget and other units, means school founders, means regional and local administration together to achieve that indeed our students do not lag behind, but that after almost a quarter of a century we have information in schools and that our schools are really schools for life, not schools for grading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48087	Thank you, Minister. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48088	Thank you. Thank you Minister for your detailed and detailed response. Here I must say that I am terribly pleased that Croatian education will finally enter the 21st century and join the digital era. I hope that people, i.e. certain interest groups and lobbys currently considered tablets and smart records, smart phones to the enemy, will realize that for our children, education regarding information is essential. And I hope that from next year he won't be able to learn from the programs that I learned from 15 years ago in information and that we can finally move them to, I don't know, in history, in history textbooks or something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48089	Thank you. Let's move on to questions. Regular number 34, MP Miro Bulj. He's asking the Prime Minister the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48090	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, here's because in Croatia currently one of the larger villages of young people has two... Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You were under the pressure of the SDSS and the CNS dealing with the plate of the dead Hoss, the eleven honest men in Jasenovac. I'm curious to know when he'll start to deal with the plates when you've been given advice and take down the Chetnik monuments and write down the criminal Vukasin Šoškocanin's direct culprit for the massacre of 12 Croatian police officers in Borovo Selo. A memorial to Vojislav Milic, a member of the Coalition Unit Vojislav Seselj, who was also signed by the infamous "White Eagles". Mili Babić's memorial in Krnjak, where he was killed, says he was killed by the executioner of the MUP and the Ustasha Guards. A monument in Kninji, Kistanje, a rebel Serb in Brdjani, etc. I am looking for your clear answer, and I am looking for your answer to your coalition partner, Milorad Pupovac, who compared General Bobetko with Slobodan Milosevic, Slavko Takmanovic and Milan Babic, who was legally convicted of war crimes, while Slobodan Milosevic was declared a member of the joint criminal group. Did this scandalous statement by Mr. Pupovac fail to remain in power? Is Mr. Pupovac and is asked to give an answer to the question of what after 26 years for a man we don't know, for this peacemaker, Dr. Schretter's pacrat doctor, who, although he stood up for peace, was killed no matter what the Pupovac was competent to exchange, where the enemy two doctors who smuggled were exchanged. What you have to answer about this and whether you asked Milorad Pupovac and what you will do with Chetnic monuments that are largely on the entire territory of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48091	Thank you, buddy. Please, just Prime Minister. [[Intruder Bulj: And it is time to leave the honorable Croatian defenders.]] So, fellow Bull, I beg you, all of you are properly finished only you proceed after my warning to stick to the weather. I think that's correct, and that's the rules we're working on. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48092	Dear colleague Bulj, as for the honor of Croatian defenders and relations with the Homeland War, I think the behaviour of this government is exemplar at all times and in every respect. Take a look at the symbolism and the fact that this Croatian government decided just on August 4th on the eve of the 22nd anniversary of the Day of Victory, the Day of Croatian Defence, the Day of Homeland Thanksgiving held a meeting of the Government in Knin. At that same session, together with very emotional speeches, both Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krstičević and Croatian Defence Minister Tom Medved adopted a proposal for a new full law on the rights of Croatian defenders and their families after a year and a half. I think with this law, and with symbolism, we have sent a message to the only Croatian government in which two commanders of the Guard brigade are sitting, what are the views of the parties that are in this government, all those who are in the parliamentary majority, according to the Homeland War and the Croatian defender. It is precisely because of the respect for the dead Croatian defenders, including the members of the HoS who were on the board, which is exactly what took place in Jasenovac 7 days after the first session of this government, on November 5th. I'm sure it was an accident. It also had the coat of arms of the Association of Croatian Defence Forces of the City of Zagreb, whose statute was accepted and verified by then administrations in April 2003. And that fact was one of those that some prominent members of Hos themselves in recent days have unequivocally characterized as a provocation. We've made ourselves very clear as the government has determined on totalitarian systems, it's even part of the government's programme. We found a solution, which at this point means that the panel is no longer in Jasenovac, without conflict between Croatian police and Croatian defenders, esteemed counterpart Bulj. Now that is art and it is a skill and it is also a signal of respect for those who gave life for Croatia. When it comes to the long-term arrangement, the use of signs and symbols of totalitarian systems, we deliberately founded a council with these years in Croatia, no one was involved. Unequal legal, judicial, administrative practice has led us to doubt. No government has solved that. And yesterday, here was the President of the Parliament, who spoke to our distinguished experts, who have been working on the subject for a long time, under the leadership of the HZU president and asked them to give us in the next few weeks, months, very clear recommendations, and also for the legal regulation of this issue. And then, in the whole way here in the Croatian Parliament, we will create legal assumptions for regulation, any of those issues that you mentioned among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48093	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48094	Thank you very much for your response. The diameter, I will deliver these monuments to you in Croatia that I have later, so that you know where they are. So, the monument to the Chetniks, who slaughtered, burned. And your government, of course, will propose and will go here in the Parliament, however, I warn you that there is still a Chetnik monument, while we are dealing with monuments of those who gave their lives for the free Republic of Croatia. However, in the end nothing less important, here is now the anniversary of the attack by Serbian Serb Ratko Mladic on Bran Peruca, which he won with the great Croatian victims, we see that there is still aggression, directly linked to the conflict of interest and with your government, because he is threatening the people of Sinj and Cetinska krajina, from the wife of Mrs. Buric, the Deputy Prime Minister, that he will take away the land, I will give you that paper, that he will exclude the land if they do not pay at their price. And the owner of this project means the damage to the thermal power plant, which will not even be ecologically and unacceptable, which will be the entire Cetinski region, the largest water tank in Europe, which will pollute, pollute the whole, not only the Cetin region, but the whole of Dalmatia will drink water, but also your Hvar. The draft, which is now being implemented by the project, is no worse than it was from Ratko Mladic, as numerous and large victims gave and remembered those victims Monday. I took part in these operations, I have the legitimate right to warn, that the harmful project, the thermal power plants on Peru, is strategically wrong, because it favours foreign investors first, because the gas has become subsidized, and secondly, that 780 kilos of gas released will release the chimney and that will infect the entire Cetina region and thus warn you of 17000 Croatian citizens, you did not give your answer. We hope you, Cetino, and this symbol that I have brought, the Cetino landscape... They won't let that happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48095	... Deputy Prime Minister, I beg you, this is not how you behave in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm begging you... Comrade Dalic, please, there are ways of saying this, this is not appropriate, no matter what Mr Bulj said, I ask you not to act like it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48096	Thank you very much Mr. President 238, without your approval, the Deputy Prime Minister has usurped the space here, insulting the funeral words, I know it's hit her, I know where Peru is and my life is on Peru, they're immersed in Peru, I defended Peru in rhubarbs with a number of people, and don't tell me about Peru, and Peru won't be a thermo power plant. Because already once the people with the immersion of the dam have moved out and this time with the thermopower plant the whole of Dalmatia will not have drinking water, as the largest source of drinking water throughout the Republic and Europe and on Hvar your Mr Plenkovic will not have people water, pie, clean water and sea you are ashamed to react in this way, because I have not offended a single sentence. 17000 signatures were sent to you by Croatian citizens... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48097	Comrade Bulj, I beg you... and Vice-President Dalic and Representative Bulja do not act in accordance with the rules that exist in the Croatian Parliament. So I'd like to ask you to calm down your passions and make sure these things don't happen anymore. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] This wasn't really appropriate. We now move to 35 parliamentary issues, counterpart Kreso Beljak questions Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48098	Mr. President, you're not lying very well. This was deliberately what you saw. Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Prime Minister. I didn't mean to, but I have to react to what was before, please Mr. Plenkovic because my question was intended for him, and this is just a finding to prepare... for Mrs. Dalic because this is the behaviour of the ministers chosen by the MPs of the Parliament absolutely is not appropriate or that she should go away alone. I mean, that's not how he can behave. Secondly, I think Mr. Plenkovic will show with his firm hand how he feels about such behavior. Secondly, the very short question concerns foreign policy. A colleague, Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, was set up by someone similar, but we didn't get a clear answer. I ask you very clearly and very loudly whether your government supports the initiative of the co-creator of foreign policy presidents of Kolinda Grabar Kitarović about so-called. The governors of the three Seas Baltic, the Adriatic, the Black Sea? Very briefly, please. If you're tired, and I know that he can answer your vice president, Mr. Stromar, like that, and no one asked him anything today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48099	Thank you. A fellow white man and what's this for? And why is that now? Why you insult a man with nothing to cause, I think it's completely inappropriate. So let's act culturally, properly towards each other at least. ... You can't, I'm just obliged as chairman to protect the dignity of both MPs and ministers, and I'm trying to do that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48100	I didn't expect to have such a dynamic end to the current clock, though. But here may be the situation of the opportunity to really consider a little and certain aspects of some business solutions that lead to the position where those who are “attack” really do not have any business chance of responding and then remain suspended in the public and I think that there should be solutions that will preserve the dignity of parliamentary representatives, but also the members of the government, and especially if someone is using their time in response to the reaction of a member of the government on a completely different subject than the one on which he asked the question, what fellow Bulj did, and obviously it is that. I think he can do whatever he wants. And as for the answer... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48101	Just like this, please, Prime Minister, so I've allowed my colleague Bulya... Just a little bit, so today during the current morning in questions and answers very often came out of the topic, but given the format as it is in the answers can always come out of this topic, so did counterpart Bulj. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So in the first minute of his response, the Prime Minister spoke of something he considered necessary. In the next three minutes, let him have the time so he'll probably answer your question, and then you'll say whatever you want in your answer again, just don't insult anyone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48102	Thank you. Beljak, a colleague, also commented on the adjudicator, also on the Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and fellow MPs who are here next to him, so he took a fairly broad freedom to comment on the current phase of the debate. But back to the metrics, here I am sorry that a little vice president of the government may have been provoked by this exposé of Mr. Bulja, who likes the Cetitian province, and I love her, too, often coming there, my mother went to January high school and I have some special connections to Sinj and Ceti. We'll do everything we can for her development, for environmental aspects, and for all the people who live there. When it comes to foreign policy, I see that this topic now generates a lot of interest in the Croatian public and takes place in the context of several unresolved foreign policy issues with our neighbours, and occasionally it gets its own dimension of our general orientation. The three seas initiative is an initiative in which Croatia has been involved for the past few years with Middle Eastern European countries, which are similar in many aspects of Croatia, which are important for Croatia and for political support, which are important for us in terms of export markets, which are important for us in terms of energy and which are also of strategic importance. Having an orientation of a reliable strong member of the North Atlantic Union and the EU, while at the same time developing co-operation according to some other parts of the world or Europe is a policy that all countries are working on. No one in foreign policy puts all their eggs in one basket. I've never seen such strategists before, studying the subject for years. So try to move a little bit away from that perception of whether there's a gap or some kind of two-headed foreign policy. There are interests of Croatia's political, economic, security, energy and in agreements, talks by key actors who formulate foreign policy, we try to make a contribution in our own way. And it can certainly be consumed in a positive way both from the policy and initiative of the three seas. So give us some time and some respect for what the president is involved in. As you know in Warsaw, the vice-president of the government and the Minister of Energy were next to the president. Thus, in some synergy of our actions, our actions are sufficiently speaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48103	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48104	First I have to apologize if I offended someone, I really don't know why anyone would find themselves offended, but good. The answer to the question I didn't get, I was looking for a decoded yes or no. I was also told what Mr. Plenkovic said, I could conclude that. However, despite agreeing not to need all the eggs as Mr Plenkovic said to be in the same basket, I have to protest that no one has given you or the presidents of the Republic the mandate to push us into some association that they have in order to create a cordon, the sanity of the east towards Western Europe. It is very clear from geostrategic that the only disturbance to the world domination of certain forces is tomorrow's potential co-operation between Paris, Berlin and Moscow. On that road was found the Baltic, the Adriatic, the Black Sea part which you, apparently, and by your government and by the President, should be the Republic of Croatia. Don't be angry, I think we should discuss this very important topic here in the Croatian Parliament and that you and the presidents of the Croatian Parliament should be given a mandate for such a kind of foreign policy. I personally believe that we and Estonia, Poland have much less common connections than Italy, Germany, France or the Benelux countries. Thank you very much and again for your apology if I have offended anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48105	The 36th issue of Commissioner Bernarda Topolko raises the question to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Predrag Štromar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48106	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's the Honorable Minister, I have a brief and clear question for you. In recent days, there's been a lot of public unrest over the housing subsidisation program. So my question is, what is the epilogue of this program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48107	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48108	Here, esteemed Mrs. Topolko, MPs, I'm so glad you asked me a question so that Mr. Beljak will now be pleased and I hope you won't be angry that I'll ask him to ask me another time and ask me a question directly and not through the Prime Minister freely, there we are all, this government, this team, so we can answer all the questions but of course everyone has their own portfolio for which he is in charge. And here I am in charge of these housing, co-financing loans. The project, the storm was huge, but the project goes through as it was imagined with the means that were secured. To date, 1583 people who want the loan have applied, which is 1583 young families. We expect that there will be 300, 400, 500 next week and that we will solve the housing issue for more than 1900 and perhaps 2,000 families. I have to say that we started the competition less than two weeks ago, that there were ten banks exactly that responded to this project and that the interest was between 3,04 and 3,75 interest rates that these people could choose what is on the market today and below those interest rates that they are and which without that programme would certainly be much larger. Nearly 2,000 families will build their own home, start their own family and most likely stay in Croatia. And this is the answer to all those questions before leaving Croatia, this is one of the good projects of the programme that we should continue and think about in this direction, keep our people, give them incentives, allow them to stay in Croatia, work here, make money and work better Croatia together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48109	Here you go, Comrade Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48110	I thank the Minister for his reply, and I am pleased with the answer, and I hope that all resources will be spent or that there will be enough citizens to spend their resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48111	Thank you, too. We move on to 37 questions, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenic, raises the issue to the prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48112	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I will apologize for asking you this question, normally I should ask Vice President Dalic, but she has not resolved in her coordination. In fact, your government's national reform programme for this year has determined that economic development policy will be based on strengthening competitiveness and the economy and one of the measures is to abolish non-taxable payments. As far as I've seen in the program itself, you've listed 20% in the next three years that it's going to be reduced, so out of these 9 billion as the total mass of non-taxable donations, that would be about 1.8 billion kuna should be solved in 3 years if we use 600 million per year it would be. If we look at just givings for renewable energy sources, so which ones are you here your minister has suggested and you adopted that only the increase will be over billions of kunas. In this year, it means instead of about 600 million that you need to reduce non-taxable donations, you will have a billion that you will increase further. Because now I'm collecting somewhere around here, if we clear up a little bit, we have about 500 million kunas that we're collecting around that fee, this is going to go up to about 1.1, 1.2 billion kuna. Therefore, I would ask the question of how you plan to implement, actually reducing our entrepreneur's burden, reducing parafiscal burdens if on the other hand you increase exactly that burden on our economies because I consider it to be something in cohesion. And I think that primarily in the College of Vice Presidents and Ministers of Economy and Ministers of Environment and Energy, because they didn't agree with attitudes and your program actually leads, not that you're going to be in a positive position towards entrepreneurs, but even more in a minus.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48113	The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48114	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Panenic, you were the minister in the previous government, I think you followed a little bit of what the finance minister who was also Minister of Finance in your government, Zdravko Maric, with tax reform that has significantly relieved the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens from 2 billion, the fact that there has been no compensation for renewable energy sources since 2013. It remained at 3 and a half June since 2013. We last year by tax reform, if you remember, reduced VAT to electricity from 25% to 13%. This reduces the electricity bills. What we had to do at this point, given how much renewable energy producers have been involved in the CROAT system, your colleague Dobrović knows very well, we had to make that move that increased that fee to 10 and a half lip, and with that in our estimates, we solved this issue for the next two years. If that fee had increased in a very small amount over the past years, this one might say, let's call it a jump, but make sure that the average Croatian households are still now after this increase to pay less bills for electricity than it was before the tax reform. And that data is accurate. It's the same for the economy. Therefore, I want to deconstruct the thesis that due to this fee electricity prices will be higher than it was last year. And this is a very important and important message that must be sedimented in the Croatian public and in Croatian citizens and Croatian economies. We do not appreciate it, but the choices on subsidising renewable energy sources were made many years ago. and we still have to look for other ways to find a solution with these producers that will not be in the future on the burden of citizens and on the burden of the economy. That's our goal. And as for all the measures that the economy minister co-ordinates our national reform programme, and the finance minister our convergence plan is taking to decommission the Croatian economy, we adopted a plan at the beginning of the year on 104 measures. At this point it is filled about 50% to 60%, there is a special portal on which the Ministry of Economy is working to try to relieve Croatian citizens and Croatian economies in all possible segments, and we have done so in a series of taxis that previously amounted to a lot more, but I have the impression that under the radar all these gestures that come in favor of both citizens and the economy, and that there are always some elements that could be critical, negative, and then, accordingly, create some unspective picture of Croatia that I am responsible for saying is simply not so today, as much as the opposition is of its logical interest because there must be opposition, on this trail, is trying. And our programme towards the economy will continue to track our fundamental objectives since last year, making it easier for the legal, fiscal, investment framework, that we are predictable, reliable for both our economic operators and those who want to work and earn money in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48115	Thank you. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48116	Thank you very much. I will show my marked dissatisfaction with your response because in fact you have demonstrated either absolute ignorance of the economy or deliberately obstructed it, because everyone, whoever is in the economy, is clear that the VAT you mention is for one economic operator in the VAT system, a passing item and absolutely doesn't mean anything to him. The burden of compensation you've raised, it's the only thing that burdens him, he's absolute to him, I'm not even talking about the citizens, I'm talking about the economy as such. And since you have already mentioned your future activities that you will take, let us return only to the decision made by your Minister Ćorić on the continuation of the project, practically... which will further burden us with that exact fee I was talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today, here's what the Deputy Prime Minister demonstrated is behind the project of this thermoelectric or gas cogeneration in Peru, he's only saying, not only is he going to learn, and he's going to be in the incentive system and he's going to raise the fee, but he's going to get these things that Vrdoljak still comes to the ministry, sees people there, and he's pushing probably a thermo power plant in Osijek that's also going to be cogenerational, and again the citizens are going to pay, and that fee. I think that's something you should know, because if they don't let you know, then you need to know that you're behind what's going to be burdening our businessmen. And that's why I asked you, I gave it and it's your government's program, if you know about it and don't talk to me about some 100 measures because here you listed very clear measures, reduction of craftsmanship, OKFSH, information technology, that will be, so the measures are clear. This has nothing to do with this or what, I'm telling you what you've done, and that's by increasing this fee you've destroyed the national reform program, and with what's going to happen, and future national programmes will certainly damage you too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48117	The last question, distinguished colleague Sanja Putica, raises the question to Minister of Labour and Pension System Marko Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48118	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, today in Croatia we are witnessing a fact based on statistics that the number of unemployed is the lowest since 1991. However, in this total number of unemployed, the largest number of women, on average, is about 58%, and in rural areas it moves up to over 60%. In particular, in my question, I would warn a group of women of poorer educational status, and I would ask you what has the Ministry of Labour and the pension system done in this regard as part of its active employment policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48119	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48120	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, dear Mrs. Putica. The government is already in March this year, the prime minister presented a package of active employment policy measures of a billion-and-a-half kuna career package. This package itself contains 9 measures aimed at the general population, at citizenship, where we can see now that it is giving its results. The objective of the package was primarily to focus measures in the private sector and on permanent employment. And it is precisely a pleasure that the provisional and preliminary results in the first eight months say that we have doubled the number of support for employment, so in the private sector and permanent employment, and that the measure, such as professional training, has fallen by 30% without a working relationship. So thank you, today has been announced and a certain protest this afternoon. I thank them, because I am already telling them their ideas for a longer time that we want to reduce the measures that are going to harm workers and if we want to encourage employment in the private sector. As far as further work is concerned, we have set out to develop specialised programmes for the employment of people in an unfavourable position on the labour market. There are primarily women like you said older age. Today at the Women's Employment Office, 58% are unemployed. Or what's even worse is the fact that out of the 170 thousand unemployed, 50,000 women are long-term unemployed, and 23000 are over 50 years old. That is why we have developed the programme "Wish" for the employment of women with whom we will invest in their employment and primarily in rural sectors. The initial goal was to employ 3,000 women in rural sectors, each of which will help 4 households of older age and thus contribute, reach and social care for 12000 older households. What I can tell you right now is that the number of applications has been opened, the number of applications has already exceeded 600 million kuna. We will certainly provide additional funds for this very project to live in its fullness and that we have the first signing of the contract over a month. Finally, I would refer to the issue of unemployment statistics, employment and job openings. What we certainly have record low unemployment as you said, and in terms of employment, what I can only say is that it is currently at the Croatian Employment Office 17258. We constantly have over 12, 15000 open jobs that we don't fill. If the government wanted to go to mass labour imports, they would increase employment by 1.2%. What we certainly see is that we have a discrepancy in the needs of the labour market, the education system. And just one of the measures in the "Meditation to Careers" package is going towards starting education, programmes in tourism, shipbuilding and construction are already going from autumn in this direction. It is certainly necessary to say that this responsible policy has managed to raise wages in these sectors and thus by increasing wages we ensure and contribute to young people to stay in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48121	Thank you, Minister. There you go, Agent Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48122	I would like to thank the Ministers for their response and express my support for your further actions and efforts and, in particular, the media campaign that you have introduced in the awareness of employment. Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48123	Thank you very much. And we move on to the final question of MP Zlatko Hasanbegovic. The question is asked by the Minister of Culture, Nina Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48124	Dear Ministers, as you are familiar with two days before the meeting of the City Assembly, where the votes of HDZ MPs also adopted a decision to change the name of Marshal Tito Square. A protest rally was held outside the HDZ centre, organised by dozens of NGOs, SDP workers' fronts and related organisations. In the colorful society in the shadow of the Serbs and hammers, the flag of the Yugoslav SR of the Croatian Stylished flags of the Soviet Union, and the hate message to the gathered was addressed by Mr. Ivica Buljan, director of Croatian drama in Zagreb. So, national theatres also laminate in the flood of fascism. At the same time, you and the Government decided in half secret that, regardless of the numerous irregularities identified by the administrative supervision you ignored, Dubravka Vrgoč was re-named to the duty of the intensifier. Activist Buljan is Mrs Vrgoč's choice, both being appointed as cultural policymakers of then-HNS Minister Andree Zlatar Violic. The pilot of this policy is famous. The BOOK has filed two charges for abuse of office and authority. My question is whether after the competition for the new director of the HNK drama, two members of the Theatre Council representing the HDZ Minister and the Ministry of Culture will give consent to Mr. Ivica Buljan's re-election as director of the drama, who was previously inspired by his colleague Oliver Frljić and the support of the public money, the Croatian Ministry of Culture turned the pseudo leftist pair of theatre activists and the fight against.../The President: Thank you, colleague Hasanbegovic. ...of phantom Croatian fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48125	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48126	I thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor. I was surprised by your question because just before you told the media that it was currently quoted in the morning, a free political competition in which essential issues and problems cannot be reached. So I'll try to talk about these very essential issues and problems regardless of the content of your question. The government is in the regular, following a regular competition, where two applications have arrived. Of which only 1 application met the conditions, on the proposal of the Minister of Culture and with the consent of the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, she proposed to Mrs Vrgoč, for the identity of the Croatian Croatian and in the next term, based on the results. The results are about 60% higher attendance in the theatre last year, the great successes of drama, the great performances of Croatian authors, performances of three winters, people of wax, the great successes in the ballet at the opera about the filling of the theatre of the country's 50th guest country abroad, about a programme that announced co-productions with major European theatres. With a German volkstheter, with an Austrian volkstheator, with an opera national in Paris, with... where you'll be performing ballet about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are topics and these are the issues on which we apply and appoint people who will lead cultural institutions. And to return to these essential issues and topics related to the theatre that you have spoken about, so, in this term, together with the Government, the theatre will solve two big issues that have been being dragged for decades and that I am also the secretary of state in cooperation with the former identity and former deputy in your term of office, and this is the issue of the second stage of the HNK and the big issue burdened by the national theatres in the Republic of Croatia. And this is a question of the employment and work of those theatre artists especially ballet and members of symphony orchestras that can no longer perform. I'll refer briefly to your question about the protest that took place. It is incomprehensible for me that someone can protest in 2017 using Bolshevik symbols, but I do not think it is the role of the minister or minister of culture to observe who was at any protest in any democratic state in which everyone has the right to freedom of expression, to his political views, and in art particularly to freedom of expression. Therefore, when we evaluate the candidates of any director, any cultural institution, we will be guided by the results and the programme and we will make decisions on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48127	Thank you. Excuse me, my colleague Hasanbegovic, something has happened to my colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48128	Of course, I'm not happy with the answer because you didn't answer me, so I'll also ask for a written answer because of its documentary value when the issue comes to the agenda. The results you're talking about... Viewings are the most common promotional forgeries that can be explicitly established, but when the agenda also comes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course I'm not happy with the answer, I repeat, but I can be pleased with your partners from what is called HNS d.d. which, in addition to luxurial areas, comes from areas of their traditional interest such as energy, forests, water, environmental protection, etc. have succeeded in restoring and suspending the influence of the Ministry of Culture from the time of Mrs Zlatar Violic against whom USKOK has indicted. So they're ghosts. So, the work of the director of HNK drama is the spirits spoken of by the esteemed Mr. Plenkovic, but unfortunately your government does not return them to the bottle, but continues to trust them with the leadership of key, cultural institutions of national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48129	This is what we've come to the end of. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48130	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club, for the ecological funeral energy-free Peruća thermal power plant. I've been looking for a break for 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48131	So, I've signaled you, you can't get a break at this point. You'll get Stanka when we start working, when we get to the agenda. We are now on the current morning, and it is clearly written in Art. 249. our Rules of Procedure, that the chairperson will not grant a recess for the meeting of the Club of Representatives, if the request for a recess is submitted, and before the agenda is established and the change to the agenda. So we move to the agenda at 14.30 because now we're gonna take a break and at 14.30 you're gonna be able to get a break. Here, it's very clear that too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48132	The agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48133	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48134	Well, the agenda's set, the current clock's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48135	But before we move to the agenda, we'll move to the agenda at 14.30, so it's always been, don't... MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.32 HOURS]] But before that, I see two MPs reporting. He's the first to be respected colleague, Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. First of all, I would like to thank you for uniting the debate for these two reports for 2014 and 2015. The Ministry of Finance shall draw up an annual report on State aid in accordance with Article 17. The Law on State Support and provides it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government also delivers it to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. The Ministry of Finance produced an annual report on state aid for 2014 and an annual report for 2015, for which the debate was proposed and approved. It is also an obligation to draw up and publish annual reports on the state aid granted, on the basis of earlier applicable State aid laws, and concrete reports first published in 2003 contained relatively detailed State aid data, as well as in small-value support granted in the Republic of Croatia by central regional and local providers, as shown by individual categories and aid instruments, including increasingly significant individual amounts to State aid. Since the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, statistics on the state aid granted are supported by EU member states, including of course the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission publishes its annual support report. This opportunity should note that detailed data for the report are collected as a rule by September of the current year for the previous year, due to the nature of certain types of support and compliance with the data of the donors themselves. Data for 2014 were carried out after the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament of 2015. However, due to the extraordinary parliamentary elections in 2016 and the overall procedure, it was necessary to re-implement, and in this case it decided to send the same, together with the 2015 report. This way of sending and making the report was conditioned by parliamentary elections, which is an exception of objective nature and we will believe with a report for 2016 very quickly come before you, so we will catch the rhythm that is here in this case a little lost. Namely, the Annual Report on State aid for 2014 contains an analytical demonstration of state aid in the Republic of Croatia granted in 2014 with revised data for 2012 and 2013. The annual State aid report for 2015 contains analytical data, an analytical demonstration of state aid granted in 2015 with revised data for 2013 and 2014. The report is based on data provided by state support providers to the Ministry of Finance, so the competent ministries, agencies, funds, HBOR and local and regional self-government units. The analysis of state aid compares the levels and structures of state aid granted to the Republic of Croatia with the relevant data in the EU as a whole, as well as with individual Member States. The obligation to draw up regular annual State aid reports is in line with the methodology and display of the review of state aid used in the EU, i.e. in accordance with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States. In those reports, the Ministry of Finance included a small-value support report, and data on support for agriculture and fisheries, although these last ones are not subject to the State Aid Act itself. Compared to the 2014 annual State aid reports, we will present the basic data below, therefore, the basic figures on the aid granted and their structure. Therefore, in the Republic of Croatia, a total of 8 billion and 587 million kuna support were allocated in 2014 and the share of these support in GDP was 2.61%. The share of state expenditure support in the same year was 6.83% per employee. So from... The total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia, amounting to 6 billion and 6398 kuna in the year, while the support per capita amounted to HRK 1997. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Supporting the industry and services sector amounted to 5 billion and 414 million kuna, which accounts for 63% of total support, and a 1.6% share of GDP, while support in the agriculture and fisheries sector amounted to 3 billion and 173 million kuna, and 36.9% as a share of GDP, respectively, amounted to slightly less than 1%. In total aid in industry and sectoral support services, sectoral support has a share in that year, so, 2014. 72.4%, or 3.9 billion kuna. While horizontal support including regional and local support is covered by a 27.6% share or slightly less than a billion and a half kuna. Within sectoral support of 3 billion and 920 million kuna, the transport sector has been allocated 2.3 billion kuna. For public television broadcasting services a billion and 210 million kuna, the shipbuilding sector 368 million kuna, the tourism sector 29.6 million kuna, and for the rehabilitation and restructuring of entrepreneurs in difficulty 17.9 million kuna. From the total amount of horizontal support of billions and 494 million kuna, horizontal support in a narrow sense is covered by 858 million kuna, regional support of 558 and local support of 77 million kuna. Support for horizontal objectives in a narrow sense was 858, and in the structure of these support, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were allocated 270, for the employment of 255 million kuna, for research and money 135, for culture 81, for environmental protection and energy savings 50 million kuna, for the completion of 4, and for the development of wide-ranging networks of 21 million kuna. Small value support amounted to 2014 506 million kuna. Next, I will briefly show data similar to 2015. So in 2015, 9 billion and 892 million kunas were allocated in Croatia and the share in GDP was 2.96, so it increased from 2.61 to 2.96 in 2015. The share of State expenditure in that year was 8.34%, per employee it amounted to slightly less than 7300 kuna and per capita 2300 kuna. Support to the industry and services sector amounted to 5 billion and 14 million kuna, which accounted for 50.7% of total support and 1.5% of GDP, respectively, while 4 billion 878 million kuna were allocated in the agriculture and fisheries sector, representing 49.3% of total support and 1.46% of GDP respectively. In total support to industry and sectoral support services, 55.9% had a share, while on horizontal support including regional and local support, the share was 44% and 2.2 billion kuna respectively. Out of the total amount of horizontal support of 2.2 billion kuna for horizontal support in a narrow sense, there are a billion 497, to regional 625, and local support amounted to 89.5 million kuna. Support for horizontal objectives in close terms amounted to a billion 497 million kuna and in the structure of these support for environmental protection and energy savings was allocated to a billion and 80 million employment of 206, culture 70, small and medium entrepreneurs 54.4, improvement of 47.7, research, development and innovation of 30 million kuna, and development of broadband networks of 9.4 million kuna. Small-value support in that year amounted to 530 million kuna. After all the data analysed, despite the still visible consequences of the economic crisis and certain difficulties in the business of individual recipients of State aid and reduced budgetary opportunities, a lower increase in the aid granted in 2014 compared to 2013 and the growth of the aid granted in 2015 compared to 2014 was observed. Therefore, there is still a need for changes in the trend of granting support, which means that donors need to focus their limited budgets more and more on the so-called. good support for horizontal character rather than sectoral support, and this must guide the policy guidelines of state support which highlight precisely those objectives most highlighted in the process of modernising state aid launched by the European Commission. In line with the guidelines, each State aid provider must be guided by principles and recommendations which are not only an obligation of the Republic of Croatia but also respect for economic and market principles as a guarantee of success in implementing the economic policies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, State support is an instrument whose proper and smart use can significantly contribute to strengthening the economy of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore it is necessary to plan closely the allocations of state aid, to select the most effective measures and to monitor the implementation and achievement of the objectives previously set, which is the obligation of each individual public support provider. Furthermore, in the context of the fiscal consolidation process and the establishment of a register of state aid with a higher level of transparency, more effective monitoring of the effectiveness of the allocation of state support to each individual donor compared to the programme and in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance will be made possible. The development of this approach will allow for better structure of programmes and individual state support. In relation to the structure of state support and the direction of support to horizontal objectives that act positively on the economy and to a much smaller extent than sectoral policies or sectoral support violates competition is one of the important objectives of economic policy, which will be insisted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, sectoral support and their share of large part were determined by companies in difficulty or difficulties such as shipbuilding, rail sector etc. The restructuring of such companies and the implementation of structural reforms will allow for a more balanced and efficient allocation of state aid, which will contribute even more to economic growth. Respecting the above mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this report to the Croatian Parliament, namely these reports for 2014 and 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48139	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So very briefly. You mentioned in your presentation of the coordination and why we are late, but I'm interested in what's the reason when we look at the categories of state aid to the categories. In the 2012-2014 report, I also observe the period from 2013 to 2015 and then we get the information that one document states I will speak only for 2013, so the 2014 report says that in agriculture and fisheries in billions of kuna 2 billion 956 million kuna, etc., and the next when we talk about percentages change. So the data is not identical. So if we look at 2014 we're talking industry and service 5 billion 414 million then we have 5 billion 775 million in the table here. For the same year, the second report. Now I'm interested in mentioning why these data come from, I'm only interested in whether they're constantly abdicating, or possibly some mistake, given that in 2017 we now have one and the other material and we're talking about the same periods, and different... numbers, so it's seen through the whole table exactly those different amounts, or shares in GDP that apply. Here's an explanation, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48141	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed Secretary of State, Tufekčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48142	Thank you. Therefore, I also said in the opening statement that the data in the preparation of the 2015 report were accredited data for 2014 and 2013. The same thing happened when the 2014 report was carried out, data for 2013 and 2012. So it's not impossible, or it's very easy to happen to the same number. The same data in two different reports is not identical because they are abdicated, abdicated and by the user is essentially not the Ministry of Finance in itself, but they are obtained from all levels of users of ministries, agencies etc. but also the local self-government unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48143	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48144	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary, we're talking about aiding whether gas thermal power plants, i.e. Cogeneration is also subsidized and, of course, the amounts you're talking about would increase greatly in terms of the construction of the Peruco thermal power plant, as is the wind, the wind power plants, to provide support and subsidies for renewable energy sources. So right in 2015, a decision was made on how to pay off subsidies to renewable energy sources, so this gas thermopower plant that would come to the Cetin River Peru would essentially fill its pockets well with renewable energy subsidies. Because as an introduction, one part will create heat. The great industry killed us in the Cetina region, big employees, big objects near Peru, that we would subsidize it out of our own pocket. As little as this year because of these decisions in 2014, 2015 is a little bit what the people below Dalmatia will pay hundreds of kunas and two hundred more electricity wars, and even now the triba will subsidise and harmful gas thermoelectric projects in this case down in Dalmatia. That how much is the renewable energy source subsidized means for wind power plants and thermal power plants can you say? Thank you. A kilowatt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48145	Thank you very much. We will now move to representatives' clubs and the first one will be taken by the Honorable representative Branimir Bunjac on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48146	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There are two reports before us, this older one from 2014, the second from 2015 on state aid. And of course the first question we have to ask ourselves is how do these reports come to the Parliament with two years late, with a minimum of two years late? And perhaps a partial answer might be sought in that if the daily points sent by the EU to the Assembly are only one day late, then the penalty is as much as we can read 140 thousand kunas a day. And since these penalties exist and as far as I know some are already in the procedure, then it is quite logical that the Croatian Parliament puts those points across the line, and then with this delay of our Croatian point, for which there is no punishment, there is nothing that any of you can draw your own special conclusion about. The other thing that is problematic about this report is that those who should answer questions about this report are not here. First of all, I think of former Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, then of Ministers Vrdoljak, Zlatar Violic, Jakovina and others, which means that today we will be asking questions we will not get an answer to. And the question at all is whether you, Mr. Secretary of State, know the answer to these questions, since at the time you were not an employee of the ministry at all. As you said yourself, Croatia provides for state support of 2.6% of GDP. That's right. What you didn't say was that we're an absolute record player in the EU. So, the European countries on average give 0.7% of GDP for state support, we give 2.6% of which number 1 is negative, and those most developed European countries actually give about 0.3 to 0.4% of GDP for state support. A very large amount of these support in 2014 and 2015 went to the Croatian railways and the first thing we can ask is whether the situation in the Croatian Railways has improved after these support. It is a general impression that it is not, that the situation in the Croatian Railways is getting worse every day and then the citizens want to know why, let's say, in 2014, 2 billion kunas were given for railways if there was no effect from giving such great money. What is of particular interest to the public are, of course, the support in agriculture that is absolutely the most of all the support the state provides. They amounted to 3 billion kuna in 2013, 3.2 billion kuna in 2015 and as much as 4.8 billion kuna in 2014. After providing this kind of support to agriculture, did the village become richer or did they become poorer that is a key issue? So we have a situation that year by year we are giving more and more support and, at the same time, the village is getting poorer, more support to farmers, more and more imports. We're giving more and more money, and there's an increasing deficit over exports, imports. How is it possible that today at a time of peace when we are a member of the EU and we are giving this kind of support that I have now cited, Croatia has a greater deficit in agriculture than in the time of the Homeland War. Here I would ask Mr. Secretary of State and the Prime Minister who, of course, does not listen to me, former ministers, to explain the matter to me. How at the time of the Homeland War, when I don't know 10 thousand kilometers of Croatia was occupied, all destroyed, people completely without money and without any state support, had more food than we have today? In addition to the fact that we have a situation where support contributes to an increase in agricultural production, or to a reduction in imports, we have a whole mess in support, dare even say which borders on crime, which I would like to support with several examples. First of all, those farmers receiving state support cannot know in advance what the amount of this support is, nor can they know the specification of that support, nor can they know exactly when it will be received. Not only can I not know when they will get it but often the support they are promised, on which they count, based on what they are doing their financial structure, and do not get it. How was it possible in 2012 at the time of the term of office of Minister Jakovina to the peasants of the state to remain in debt 1.2 billion kuna that they had never received and should have? How could EU support for agriculture for 2014 be paid in the spring of 2015, when in all Member States this support was paid in time? For what reason was Croatia an exception to this issue? How was it possible for state aid to fall under the burden of performance and blockades in 2014 and 2015? So the farmers were expecting money to get it for their work, they didn't get it, then they ended up doing it, that's where the multiple court costs of execution and interest came in, and then when the farmer finally got support, that support was paid, the execution and the blockade. Should we be surprised that tens of thousands of OPGs ended up in a blockade because of this policy, and we also have to ask the question of Minister Jakovina who is not there, which is why he allowed the 2012 regulation to be the subject of enforcement although the support does not constitute income but represents the means of purpose to be justified in this way? It is also known to the public that various speculators used support to earn profits without at all working the country or doing other activities. There have been cases that, through the Agricultural Payment Agency, the ARCOD was cut short, without the knowledge of the owner, the other person was enrolled and supported by other people, even if it had not been processed. It was enough for anyone to go to the public notebook, bring in two witnesses, sign up for someone's land, and get state support on that basis. How is that possible? As far as I know, a farmer, for example, can't buy a blue diesel unless he personally shows up at a gas station. No one can buy it for him. His wife, his son, the cooperative, whoever he wants, can't get it. I personally know the example... The mail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You come to the post office, try to pick up the mail instead of someone else, go pick up the mail, say, for your wife or husband, you won't get it. He must personally come and pick up that mail. How is it possible that in agriculture someone gets support for someone else's land? This issue was resolved recently by the Ministry of Agriculture, but we still did not find out who those speculators were, whether anyone was sanctioned for these issues and punished because by incurring private property, the Constitution itself was violated by the Republic of Croatia. In addition, we had the case that, for the purpose of the rural development programme implemented in 2015, it applied to the pigmeat and poultry sector, that the funds were received by companies that were not included in the court register, which no one had ever heard of, and among other things, State support, so I repeat for the pigmeat and poultry sector, they were given funeral companies, fire extinguishers, crafts for construction and sale of fence wood and state prisons. Whether responsibility for such a situation has been determined, please the State Minister's reply. The biggest affair that occurred was when the EU blocked 1.2 billion kunas that were to be paid to farmers and because the ministry approved support so-called. related societies. What exactly did that look like? The big company, let's say Agrokor, he got the most, you don't even have to ask, set up 3, 4, 5 small companies and then these small companies individually get support. Let's say five times five million euros. And then what happened? Then it happened that a tender for state aid was registered by 1200 interested parties, but only 20 tycoons picked up all the money and these other farmers didn't do anything. Minister Jakovina and the Ministry of Agriculture have imagined, in 23.1.2015, the rules were adopted within 7 days of the adoption of the Regulations, the tender was opened, and the second day those companies had everything ready, complete tender documentation, everything under that Regulation was ready, first handed over and immediately after that received funds until the rest had arrived and were no longer able to be informed. What happened after that? After that, the European Commission saw what the situation was, it was seen that it had been granted to certain, therefore, monopolies. The European Commission blocked the funds, requested a review of the state aid allocation, and also asked for an investigation into the matter to be conducted, to carry out an investigation. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of State, to tell me whether any investigation has been carried out, because if the investigation has been carried out, the results of this investigation have been carried out. You should be the first to have information about this since you're from the Ministry of Finance. I would also like to point out here that State aid is granted to large, therefore to companies, that the EU's common agricultural policy is such that the funds should primarily be allocated to small and medium-sized economies, not large. So we have repeatedly violated EU rules on granting support in agriculture. I could, of course, point out a lot more here, a whole series of other problems about how, say, support is not given to the milkers they need, so because we're supporting Agrokor, a bag with no bottom. The milkmen who need support don't give them, but time limits me and I can't open all these topics right now. What's important to say is that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and Minister Tolusic know very well what I'm talking about here, what kind of problems it is, but they're just still doing nothing. Since our prime minister publicly scolds the Minister of Agriculture every time he tries to do something about it, then it is no wonder that these issues remain without an answer, and the situation is not essentially changing. In the end, I would like to say that the problem of state support arises among other things and that in Croatia it is entirely guilty of economic policy. It is an economic policy that prefers imports, which prefers corporations and tycoons to the heart of domestic production and to the heart of small producers. If the government truly changed the economic policy of ten billion kunas that go to support each year could be spent much better than now. Only then would we become a member of the EU and in a substantive sense, not only in formal terms. Depending on the answers that the Secretary of State will give us regarding this exposure, the Living Wall will decide whether these two reports will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48147	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48148	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Of course, I would also like to join my colleagues in thinking that in 2017 we are already in the second half discussing the 2014/2015 reports. where they come from your ministry of course the topics we should discuss should be discussed with the persons who were then, who are also responsible for this report and what has been done. Because I'm actually just one statistic, a record of something that's been going on. What I would point out is that this particular reason for delaying the debate on such points may be less important, but believe me, the issue of support is a subject that is important to all those who expect support. And then we happen to have some important laws like the law on unfair commercial practice and so we have in the late evening, while for example, here we are now if we had time to have quality discussion, now we have I would say some points that could fit always in the schedule. But here, they arrived in 2017 and we can only say perhaps our dissatisfaction or pleasure with that time. But voters themselves gave their opinion on that time and there was a change of government. Of course, any support can be interpreted in the form of some form of state interventionism that is always stressed when it comes to EU membership from one negative aspect where one is trying to create stability, equality on the market. But the fact is that each and every Member State has a number of measures that, in many, even sometimes perfidual ways, help its economy, make it easier for its citizens to cope with the consequences of having a long-term economic crisis, we had a global corporate governance policy that practically destroyed national economies. And we're alone in the good part of the victim just like that. I am aware of these restrictions that we have taken over as a member of the EU and, of course, these reports that are being delivered are not only going to our attention, but also the European Commission is watching them. And of course there are numerous and their remarks and so on. But we should think about how beyond the support we receive from EU funds, we can also engage our national state budget, and then give additional support. No one in the Government of Zoran Milanovic, to say even in later governments did not really quality-analyze this entire support system and try to find models, that when our entrepreneurs and citizens are most difficult, that state, regional, local levels are harmonised, that they can really be of the greatest help and that the support they provide is systematic and that they are actually one part of the national policy that is passed on to all levels. I have to point out, since here I come from a local level, that as the head man of the municipality where I was, I was first actually giving one form of support to any support in agriculture. It never happened once, until then. Here, the statistics shown here, that actually support at local level is 0.9% of the total support, are actually devastating. Turns out local self-government leaders are more concerned about building only infrastructure. Some of it is more or less necessary, and that the policy-making of support to the economy is too demanding and the fact that we have to face it and actually the Ministry of Finance needs to take real care that the messages sent to local self-government are not only expected to support certain infrastructure projects or social projects, but also that joint efforts must be in support and economic development. One of the measures that, here, is current in this meeting has now hit me personally, referring to the abolition of tax exemptions as one of the forms of support that was significant to the companies operating in assisted areas. So most of it, maybe financially, I did, and then, here's Minister Maric speaking, financially not so significant, I think it's all somewhere around 40 million kuna, but it's something that's another motive, to the companies that act there to stay and maybe to get over some crisis moments. So from these reports I would just point out, certain ones that we've noticed and that might actually be, in some ways, sometimes left out, sometimes additional compensation for something that's being abolished. Often, not often, just as we observe, we can see from the report is growth, turning debt into a ownership stake, and that is one of the forms where the state, significantly involves, especially with companies that are partly owned by the Republic of Croatia and then we come to a situation where by turning that role, in fact, debt into a ownership stake, something that was once privatised, which got a private investor, a strategic partner, or whatever we call, after the failure of that privatisation process, all of this goes back to one country where through the tax debt we turn ownership of a particular company back into a state. So, we're legitimizing, failure, implementation of the privatisation process. I can't say the same thing here for the Badell type case that he was, he was once solved, one, however it was, so he comes back to us again, and he's created a number of conflicts that have come out of exactly how this procedure will be re-impleded. I think it's one bad practice we should avoid. The state has proved to be a bad master of trade societies, which we have in our portfolio and that is what Minister Goran Maric emphasizes. And they're looking for a solution to these very problems. And we should once accept that it can't be a practice to accumulate certain debts, tax or any other ones, so that later it becomes a subject of debate within the government. One of the support that was missing and where I was here and personally having numerous conversations, e.g. support for the production of biofuels. OK, we agree that maybe this support no longer had its function, maybe it wasn't necessary, but we forgot about another obligation, which is the obligation, that our fuel distributors or manufacturers, must mix biofuels into their fuels. And in the end, it happens that one of our diesels in Vukovar, now, has closed the door where they ask us to at least make up for that compensation measure, which is that we have been determined to carry out precisely that obligation to involve biofuels, which is not being implemented. So, they're not even asking for the back-up of the support they've been counting on, they're just looking for it, so make sure you get those obligations you've been making in law. But here, and fellow Bulj mentioned that one of the support that the seas caused us is here and a heated debate and certainly will be in the future, is the support granted to renewable energy producers, from this fee that is collected from citizens and from companies. The very growth of this support, where it's dimming, for our economy, is where we see that distribution is limited to certain large companies that have succeeded in this time of lack of information, in fact, to ensure themselves a large approach to the quotas that were envisaged, and of course this has all led to the collapse of a noble idea to secure energy from renewable sources, and in this way, we have again brought ourselves to question ourselves, and so our people who have to pay, question, have these decisions been correct. And there's actually a number of indications that there's been malfeasance. One of the support that is here and mentioned in this report is the support to Croatian television from collecting the tv fee, it has been discussed and here, I hope that by continuing the program where it was sought and then while the Most was in the coalition to lower the burden. I think I've been discussing some calculation that it could be reduced from 70 to 65 kuna, and I think we should think that it's one of the forms of support that should be compensated by one better quality work and Croatian television. To not make this support, which is intended for, in fact, the provision of infrastructure, for public service, become an integral part of their funding. And that should think about what HTV is like as a production house, as if we say the entity that has and is on the market at the end is, and what is necessary is the infrastructure that we finance from this fee. It is evident that Milanovic's government's decision to divide Croatia into only two NUC regions has created additional problems, because when we look at that one continental part of the economy, it is only up to 25% possible to support economic operators and when we look at that as well as Slavonia, then I find it difficult to listen when SDP's representatives are now in favour of improving conditions in Slavonia, and that decision has long damaged all applicants to EU funds coming from that area because, of course, the support that an entity can receive in one Zagreb or one Vukovar cannot be identical to the same conditions of business. And here I appeal that as soon as possible an impact analysis is accessed, here we can see it is not just the migration and the decline of economic activity that has arisen where this area is located but also that the adequateness of the support was not that it could maintain a level of economic activity. He would ask the same thing in future, and the Ministry of Finance, that the comparison of the share of State support granted as part of GDP is not shown. There is one table where the percentage is shown and then it turns out that the largest percentage of its GDP is allocated by Croatia for support. But if we look at Croatia, for example, I speak for one year 2014 e.g. But it's the same in 2015, and it was 2.61% of GDP, while Germany singles out only 1.35% of GDP, but in reality it's over 39 billion euros. I think that emphasising the share in our GDP is disastrously low and that this success is very difficult to look at in this report, so I would ask that we actually look at this comparison as much as we really single out, how financially it is in the net amount, and that the percentage can always be relativeized and shown what it might look like, but unfortunately, 2.61% is not enough or will be enough. It is very difficult to say now about the reports themselves that the Most Representatives' Club will declare itself. We're talking about really past times, that time here and we're alone when we joined then elections as a platform we clearly said we were unhappy with the situation, and these documents are part of the then government that we finally went against in a political fight. I am standing by it and we will consider it yet but I don't think we will support these reports, not for the sake of the ministry that presented it but precisely a period in which there has been enough effort to overcome the effects of the economic crisis that has shaken our country the longest of all EU members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48149	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of the Horg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I don't understand one thing, so I'm going to ask you here for a little clarification. You said that local self-government provides support in principle to benefit from infrastructure support and that it should benefit the economy more. Of course, support can only be used for what they are intended for in that part. I agree with you that this part of the report for 2014, 2015 is not exactly a report and it shows that there was not much support, they were not going in the direction that they should go and that it could actually be much more. But isn't it normal that if someone does some infrastructure in local self-government that it's automatically supporting the economy because it's just all tied up, you can't develop an economy if you don't have the infrastructure. And yet no one defends any local self-government and some of their own measures in particular to further help the economy, whether or not some releases, whether some local support is possible to work without any problems, so here's the part that I wasn't particularly clear with you while you were discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48151	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48152	Thank you very much, colleague Hrg. In fact, I wanted to say more in terms of local self-government expecting support for its projects also from the state budget, and sometimes they don't make sure that those obligations they could meet with their economies are fulfilled in this way. Both you and the other leader were and I am also local self-government and we know that we are earning income from renting or selling state agricultural land and that these funds should be returned to the development of agriculture. But I guarantee you if you look at the share that's really been returned to our agricultural entities in terms of what we call infrastructure is sometimes that Polish road becomes a real road through a settlement that is also needed, but it's not returned to agriculture. And there's a large number of malfeasances about how these funds are directed towards the communal or other form, not why they're collected. It's just one example. But no one is defending any local self-government that those assets that they have from their own original incomes... e.g. in support of the economy and ultimately turns out to be really... or appear from time to time some examples of good practice, but unfortunately 555 local self-government should all be examples of good practice. Only then would our masters know if they have real support for the local self-government they're working on. And especially when we go back to the less developed areas where there is a smaller fiscal capacity there it is even more felt and done it is also this reform of the entire system of administration of state and local requirements, it is not because of the political attitude but is precisely because of the need of businessmen who expect similar close conditions as anywhere else it will happen to us that literally some will leave certain areas that do not have the capacity to help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48153	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the CNS on behalf of which the distinguished representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48154	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Assistant Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, the support, if we look at a little further history, we've always had, was a synonym for agriculture and shipbuilding. That was the thing that took the most. That was what we were, good and... Yes, but we're talking about what's in the people, when it's dark, that fellow Shucker did well and said about traffic and railways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today, both the railways and this data, we can still see that there's still agriculture and railways and something that takes our attention, our resources, and the most troubles. Shipbuilding, when we watch in 2007, was nearly 3 billion kuna, it came to about 500 million and that's somewhat, let's just say it's settled. We have a problem, and what is said here in the report of these differences between sectoral support and those horizontal. So sectoral exactly what we said, railways, traffic, so, individual systems, which obviously don't give us. They're a blood work picture of the state, the state administration, and when we have the smallest amount, then we'll know we've done something. However, we wouldn't, of course, have had a crisis, of course, this statistician and what I said in the replica, it's very difficult to discuss today with one data, and as of next year, it's not going to be you. The difference of 300 million in the report is not very small, no matter how many we have abdicated. But if we're talking about some of the industry's support, someone in 2016, it's been subsidized when it came to this report or in 2015 for 2014, 300 million kunas have gone somewhere new. We will see what will happen next year, and today we are in 2017 when we talk about 2016, which will now be announced to us. So on that side, we also have to process good data. What we can say in order, which I cannot be even a little pleased with, when I speak, and especially in 2015, is horizontal support, support for research, development and innovation. So, 2015. 30 million kuna. If we're talking about some land of knowledge, some future, if I'm referring to these sectoral support that's been recorded in billions, 30 million kunas, it's far too little, especially if we're still looking at most of it coming, almost 75% of the release of certain tax reliefs, all I think is 8 million that I saw in the report that something was being helped. And when we look at 2014 and 2013 it is 112, i.e. 130 million kuna. So something happened in 2015 or it didn't happen and it resulted and that's what it shouldn't be. That's where we have to turn. Just in a way to think about what's bigger and we can tell the activities, which include exponential growth, I know, if I'm talking about IT industry, I come from Osijek and there's a boom that no one can take credit for themselves, not the state, not the city itself. So, I come, but simply, by the will of the enthusiast, it's struck, of course, that there's a university and a good college it's grown overnight as it turns out. But it still needs to grow. And it's not for help, but maybe in spite of the state. Of course they used where they could, but we had an example that we simply couldn't find those people a space adequate throughout the city or that the state could somehow help, that they would come into one building, that they had a part. Of course, it's the cost of the cost. But that's how we could direct those support ourselves. Furthermore, as regards, of course, there are support for the development of broadband networks. Here, when we talked about infrastructure, it's not just the road we're going to build, it's just this part right now, especially now around the regional, or the IT sector. As for the other segments, we're recording, at least they recorded these years of two-digit growth in industrial production. Of course, and this part as one of the tools is just... So we're not talking about sectoral but exactly horizontal support, and that's how it's supposed to be thought. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I may disagree, of course we all have, a colleague of Bunjac said it like that, watching as you little, again they're cut off, or going to harm, they've got a lot of damage to the small and they're cut off. I wouldn't look at projects like that at all. The project is the one that allows for employment, long-term, sustainability, whether it's a large company or a small one. The point is, what's behind it. Because what you mentioned, the slow court, is exactly the one entrepreneur from Osijek who opened the most modern meat processing plant in the world. 100 people work there and no one can tell me it's not a good project. Where everything is united in one space, from production, cultivation, processing and plasma, and in general everything for export. And the only thing we have to be really careful about is not everything Robin Hood would say, so take the rich, give it to the poor. Why should the rich always be richer? We must also see that there is a lot of experts working there and that finally I have experienced and that in my Osijek other than colleagues from the IT sector come people from the food technology colleges, electricians work in Osijek precisely in this factory, the most modern in this part of Europe. That's proud of me. And that we must, of course, make sure that the rules of the game are known and that I absolutely agree. There can't be... We can't lose something and God forbid we don't even manage to eloquent it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as fellow Panenić mentioned something NUC 2 regions, because it is classified here, I would ask if it is possible, that this part be divided into Adriatic and continental Croatia, whether we can even get into some parchment on those of our micro regions, known, historical regions, so let's say Slavonia and Baranja, so north of Croatia, the northwestern city of Zagreb and so part of Dalmatia and above, Kvarner, Istria. Let's just see, do we know when it was done and now we can't... By 2020, or 2019, it will be our turn to change these NEC 2 regions, if we could go back to 3, as the original idea was, which would be even 4 would be good, especially for us in Slavonia and Baranja. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here I'm saying, there are some equal amounts, and I'd like to see right now with the time-out statistical indicators, as far as it turns out to be right or not. How relieved or distressed the circumstances are about that part. Of course, if someone is less developed and has the opportunity to withdraw a lot of funds because he does not have the capacity to withdraw it, perhaps the funds remain unconsumed. And at the same time someone who's somewhat more developed could absorb it all. It was one of the models why it was introduced to unite the region, but whether it is good or not, perhaps just like this report will show it, that it does not have to be by county, although it is the town of Zagreb, 13 counties is up, etc., at least in this part of what we all know there is no big difference. Furthermore, as to where we are in Europe, so absolutely, I mean we don't need tables, we know that, but it's nice to see how much we're out in agriculture, how many Germany, France, Spain. We're all here somewhere, plus, minus 10, 20%, and we're not saying that's about 1.2% of our GDP gaps. So we are 2.61% according to this for if we're looking, I think it's 2014, most of the support and it doesn't have to be necessarily bad if we know what we want with it. We are less developed, we need to use these instruments that the EU provides us with on the basis of and if you want funds for their own balancing and... And whatever it was called, we have to use it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to make the most of it in the horizontal part, so that we have as little sectoral needs as possible and that we use it as much as possible. But let's also focus a little on development, on innovation, on broadband Internet, on those where with about 50, 100 million you can make a drastically large difference and sow that seed that can develop, right, like we have opportunities in Osijek to do. So here's the bottom line, this is probably the kind of data that we're good at seeing where, what, how it's finally being spent, and we can look at it in parallel that we know the effects. Of course, it would be much better if we entered into the core of certain projects that some of them are listed by certain criteria to see how much this project, i.e. the foundation programme they received when talking about horizontally, brought perhaps new jobs, brought additional values because it is not a problem for the state to give up some of its resources if it knows that it will get otherwise and that it will all come back. It's actually the purpose and purpose of everything. And here's what might be good to see in further some reports, but probably at a certain ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48155	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Curaj, your debate and your predecessors, they offered me a line. Very often in this assembly we use some topics for political bickering, but support is definitely the strongest instrument for one government to implement economic policy. But to discuss support with three years behind when the 2018 budget is already being created, we are discussing fourteenth instead of discussing 2016 at the moment and seeing what the effects of these support are. Then it would be that and then there wouldn't be politics, there wouldn't be bickering. So, in the end, if someone in their policy decides to give so much and so much support for the sector, it is his political decision and his political right. But you need to see what's ultimately the effect of it all together. Very often here at the expense of our peasants we love, farmers to fight in this House. However, do we ever ask ourselves how that someone in Belgium, the Netherlands, somewhere else in Denmark who is far more developed, have far higher costs are able to produce a kilo of pork cheaper than our farmer or produce a liter of milk than a Croatian farmer does. And do you know where the greatest war was, about which support was being negotiated to join the EU and how many attacks will you have? Well, right in that section of agriculture, not to mention the strict demands of the European Commission were for the shipbuilding restructuring programme. Therefore, support is far more and far more important than petty political bickering. But I'm saying, when I start discussing them according to our Fiscal Responsibility Act, then the Budget Law will think and discuss them in a completely different way because we'll see what the effect of these support is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48157	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48158	Here's a thank you. However, I agree with you, Comrade Schucker, we are all aware that this has been a long time to talk about it, that we can only direct some nomotechnical suggestions, something that may be but essentially time has run us over. That's exactly what I said, and it's good and it's good, and they're keeping a government policy, one state, and they need to be the direction we're going, and more where we want to be. That's why I did mention those parts where they might be the tiniest, especially by the Ministry of Science, for innovation, for spreading the broadband internet. We need to determine what our strategy is and do accordingly. Is it small and medium entrepreneurship, how programs, how everything else. Of course, we can't forget agriculture. Well, my people, I come from Slavonia and Baranja, if we have something there, we have land, we have great potential, but it's been said too many times, and very little has moved. Of course these shifts don't go overnight, but let's use these things and let's go use those practices of others as they can and can't. No one can tell me that something can't be done, but I need someone to explain it to me. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48159	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the next one will speak to a respected representative, Marijana Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48160	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear assistant minister and secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the relevant reports, which contain a number of figures, and are very comprehensive and high-quality. As we have already heard in the opening presentation before us are the Annual State Support Reports for 2014 and the 15th year that the Ministry of Finance developed in accordance with the State Support Act. In my presentation, I will place an emphasis on the recent in 2015, and also give a comparative comparison with the age in question in some indicators. As a result, in 2015, 9 billion and 892 million kuna support were allocated in the Republic of Croatia, which increased by 944 million and 10.6% respectively compared to 2014, and the share of these aid in the gross social product was 2.96%. When it comes to the share of support in expenditures, it was 8.34% in 2015, and here we come to an increase compared to the amount in 2014 when it was 7.2%. The support per employee was 7292 kuna, which also increased by 9.4% compared to 2014, while the support per capita of the Republic of Croatia amounted to 2300 kuna and represented an increase of 10.6% compared to 2014. When it comes to the distribution between industry and services, we can say that, in 2015, almost equal share went to one sector or another. Therefore, industry and services amounted to 5 billion and 14 million kuna, and here there is a noticeable decrease of 13.2% compared to 2014 and it accounts for a total of 50.7% of the total aid granted. While support for the Agriculture and Fisheries Sector amounted to 4 billion 878 million kuna, there was an increase of 53.7% compared to 2014. In total aid granted, the support sector has a share of 55.9%, i.e. 2 billion 801 million kuna, a reduction of 34.5% compared to 2014. While horizontal support including regional support and local support is covered by a share of 44.1%. Within sectoral support, the most support relates to public broadcasting services, then to support the transport sector, the shipbuilding sector for rehabilitation, the restructuring of entrepreneurs in difficulty, and ultimately to the tourism sector. Of the total amount of horizontal support in 2015 from the amount of 2 billion and 212 million kuna, which is more than 48% compared to 2014. Horizontal support in a narrow sense is covered by 1 billion 497 million kuna. At regional support of €625 million and local support of €89 million. In the structure of horizontal support in the narrowest sense is the most allocated for environmental protection and energy savings, then for employment, for culture for small and medium-sized enterprises, for research and development and innovation, and finally for the development of broadband networks. The support of small-value or de minimis support in 2015 is 531 million kuna, which is 2.8% higher than in 2014 and most of it has been granted through subsidies with a share of 58.2% through tax exemption and exemptions 17% through capital investments 10.5%, through a guarantee of 6.1% while other 8.2% refers to direct interest subsidies, a reduction of relief and exemption from the payment of contributions, and more favourable loans. Total aid granted, without support for agriculture and fisheries in 2015, is also shown in accordance with the allocation of support under the regional support map, i.e. the NUC2 region in the Republic of Croatia. A total of 2 billion 478 million kunas of support have been allocated in the Adriatic Croatia statistical region, including 684 million kuna in horizontal support, while 1 billion 793 million kunas are covered by specific sectors. While a total of 2 billion 535 million kunas have been allocated in continental Croatia where 1 billion 527 million kunas are covered by horizontal support, not sectoral support from billions and 8 million kunas. We are following all of this, or agreeing with the recommendation that, when granting state support, it is necessary to give a greater emphasis, that is, more and more directional and such limited budgets, etc. good support for horizontal character because it contributes to creating equal conditions of engagement for all entrepreneurs and less in sectoral need, and must also take account of policy guidelines, state support in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48161	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club will now speak for the esteemed representative Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48162	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, here are just a few words on this subject. We will support these State aid reports, it is not disputed. What is important is that this process is supported in these different segments both by these vertical, sectoral, and horizontal support going in a good direction, and a good direction is determined in a way that horizontal support in some way is multiplied, i.e. to be dominant, and sectoral reductions. What is in favour of this is certainly a reduction of shipbuilding support, as the restructuring programmes are practically completed or completed, and the country will no longer be able to allocate more significant new ones. And on the other hand, of course, you have this section of agriculture that today has been a lot of words that are growing, among other things, because of the fact that the EU has been involved in these last few years as someone co-financed direct payments in agriculture, primarily in support of farmers' income. The part that is unforgivable is also support in transport, the maintenance of certain lines primarily in maritime transport or some other segments such as rail transport without which this story would not be possible at all. We know in what state the railway sector is in, and certain lines because of our citizens, our population still needs to be maintained and some transport services are minimum. And there are, of course, students who have some special treatment where here and at the time of our government have introduced certain co-financing of student transportation, to help in some ways to school, to get young people to school and to actually be equal in terms of availability above all high schools. What I can say is that national funds are increasingly combined and substituted with EU funds, especially in the area of environmental, environmental, therefore, subsidies related to renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and what is particularly important for some future development of Croatia, and where we are still significantly lagging behind. These are investments and co-financing and development research. Unfortunately, there are still support relatively small. And what should be a recommendation to the Government, to further develop this system and to find new methods and models, how to support investment in research and development, so that this industry of ours that has been a little bit lively, over the past few years and is particularly export-oriented, so that it can continue to maintain its competitiveness and, of course, improve and increase exports of Croatian products abroad. What is the problem at this point is something that I spoke publicly about yesterday is exactly the absorption of these EU funds in combination with national funds, and as support through various programmes, especially for the competitiveness programme, the largest programme in the EU funds structure, where things go too slowly, so the absorption of these funds is too small. The only really serious step is made in the part of agriculture and conditionally said rural development because the payments in that part can only be thanked for the good negotiating position we had three years ago, four years ago. So, in 2014, when we negotiated that rural development funds could be paid part of the funds for direct payments to farmers, i.e. to support the income of our farmers. And that's why that percentage is relatively good. In all the other segments, unfortunately, very bad. What saddens me is that this government has stopped public publishing the tables of the so-called. The financial review of the use of EU funds, which we as Government have continuously renewed and have been made available monthly on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development, or on a special site called structural funds.hr. The public needs to know what the situation is. There's no hiding information, no hiding data, because that's how you actually make one possible, so to speak, the conditional pressure of the public that further stimulates you to work even better, and that those funds are faster, more efficiently absorbed. And that's something the government has to put back into practice. So once this financial perspective started, we don't have that data publicly available, at least I couldn't find them anywhere, so I asked a representative question, let's see how much absorption is currently, how much funding is paid by individual programmes, old and new financial perspectives. So seven days ago, I got some very interesting data, which says that the payoff was about 350 million in 2015. So we're talking literally about the refunding of accounts and the advances for that part of the European funds, where, I say 350 million, which in 16 years went up to 650 million, and then in the first half of this year, only 118 million euros were paid. It's not good. That was my message. So the government has to do something. I made it very clear yesterday that a certain intervention team should be made. So no commission, nor is the Ministry of Regional Development alone sufficient here and the EU funds. We already need one national intervention team, which will monitor what happens on a daily basis at all stages. And that means, from project preparation to negotiation, to the realization of projects on the ground, helping those who do so in preparation and those who do so in the implementation of projects. Because that help is necessary, daily. Some projects have been stopped, some are being realised more slowly than is predicted. And there's a real danger. So, this isn't opposition moaning, I'm saying this exclusively from my own experience, running one of these sectors for four years in the government. So I am talking about the real danger that there is a significant part of the money at our disposal or that it stays in Brussels or that it is returned to the EU budget. And it's already early next year, because it's running out of that famous M+3 period for 2014. And we need to be aware of that. Because the real shock will be in a moment if that figure reaches several hundred million euros, which is not impossible at all, believe me. With this comparative absorption, it's not impossible to do so. Because when I took over the ministry in 2012, in the first half, we found 40 million euros, then decompetition, therefore, recalls funds for 2007, because these M+3 also expired at the end of 2011. 40m euros, out of some 130 per year. That's a huge percentage. If you take that percentage now to approximately a billion and 500 million dollars per year, then it really is 100 million euros. If this is announced, in the early months of next year, it will be a real shock for Croatia. It may turn out that there will be more de-committee or recall funds than we are paying in the EU budget. So that's how much more we're gonna lose without using those funds. That's why I want to make it so clear now that I want to simply warn that everyone is moving into all the structures, in all the segments of the government, who are taking part in this story, but not just the Government. There are now many more responsible cities, municipalities and counties and some specific areas such as urban agglomerations from Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek, etc., to those least developed areas that need special assistance in order to do so in a good way, and we also have a special programme for these parts, namely Petrinja, Knin, Benkovac, Beli Manastir and Vukovar. I warn a little about it being said that these data come regularly to the public as we have placed them probably would have been talked about more and we will have to talk seriously about it here with the best intention. Honestly, I'm sorry and it hurts if we're gonna use that money in a little procedure. Let's be objective always in the initial period is absorption smaller, but we are now half of the financial perspective three and a half years have passed, more than three and a half years no more games. What stands on the EU's pages is about a billion and 600m euros contracted and only around 180m paid or 1.3%. Here at this point it says it's abdated, I'd still be corrected a little bit, and I'd say the Ministry of Finance certainly has a little more favourable data, but no matter, up to 3% of the funds that are covered by accounts, it's very important that we understand the same thing because you have advances. You get an advance under EU rules, but you have to spend it. How? Through projects. So the only thing that goes directly is direct payments in agriculture that are simply distributed and distributed to farmers according to the criteria that we have here and in today's debate heard whether or not respected or not respected but shared, it's easy to distribute. But when it comes to projects, that story goes a lot, a lot harder. I'm sorry that we're talking about this right now, here's a serious story in these late Friday nights where there's probably a very small number of people listening, and as you can see, our colleagues aren't here, so we're not all going to profit too much here. But here are some people who are responsible for both the party and the parties that are in power, so I guess maybe even within their own parties they'll ask these serious questions and ask where we are right now, and we're not in a good position. Here, that was my message in the context of this topic because there's not much to talk about. The report is there, the figures are there, and I say the story goes in a favourable direction in terms of structure, the size of total support, and that is increasingly on the trail of some EU trends and preferences. So the substitution of sectoral with horizontal support, but this component that comes to us from the outside, on the side and which is free and free is also important and it represents one of the keys, I will not say the key, but one of the essential keys of Croatia's future development because it is 10.7 billion euros of money without direct support in agriculture. It is huge money, it is a huge potential for Croatia and we have to spend as much as possible. And I'll just look back on one single sentence, usually yesterday they asked me a question, and how many of you did it in that segment. We have raised the story, we have this 40m-euro decomment in the first year that we found practically zero by the end of the period and the final tables available on the pages are structural funds.hr for IPA and structural funds from 2013 say that we have managed to arrange 108% of the available funds, it is said to the phased so-called. projects which are partly financed from a new financial perspective, and that the money has really been withdrawn, paid by the basis of an account of 87.4%, which is not at the very top of European countries, but is not so bad at the end, given the difficult system development process managed by these funds. But I'm warning you, it's far less than what's now at our disposal and now we need seven, eight times the effort to make such a big fund of money really spend. And for that, people need a profession, and for that, it doesn't need to be changed by sector chiefs who are doing a good job, and unfortunately they've been changed and people need to be kept in the system, they need to be brought in new, they need to be quickly trained, etc., etc. So a bunch of things to do in that segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48163	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48164	Well, fellow Greeks, I'm going to look back on this last part of your debate, but I did expect something different from you in terms of experience and everything, but we in this House are not going to talk about what's most important, which is what is the effect of these support. What is the effect of these support? We are now discussing 2014, has the government reached an effect that she wanted with these aids? It's the key to everything, it's an element for changing economic policy. And what you're talking about, it's just a subject in my opinion that's only been discussed twice, and that's when the budget is brought and when the budget report is submitted, then there's one position where the funds are withdrawn from the EU and then we can discuss it and then there's no politics and politics. You remember that the budget rebalances over some years have reduced practically by 50%. And it's good to warn about some things are good, they're not, but when we're discussing things like this with some kind of a detour, then it's the key thing for me whether we're with the support of doing what we want or not. No one here will publicly say that HZ on its earned kuna without about two, two and a half kuna from the state budget on that kuna can't exist at all. And when we discuss HZ on some lines, then everyone will tell you that these lines must exist, but those lines have to be paid. So you have the support that is to maintain something, and you have the support that is the generator of economic development and we have it in Croatia and we can't escape it because it's our historical heritage. Look how much we've given for shipbuilding over the past 15 years, so there was one and another policy option, almost 28 billion cash. And where's our shipbuilding today? You're practically untraceable. We want to talk about agriculture, we want to talk about HZ, and that's the efficiency of those support.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48165	Thank you. We will now hear the answer of the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48166	Thank you very much. So it is undeniable that these support was necessary. You are talking about shipbuilding in many EU countries it has disappeared, in Croatia it is part, part of shipbuilding and most of it has survived. How does it work today? It's changing. Perhaps in northern Croatia better, in the south a little bit worse so that we may not be happy with the overall effect of that story, but insists, employs people, works some ships means it has an effect. As for traffic, how would people come to the islands if there were no subsidies, no ferry tickets connecting our islands to the mainland? This is what you said about railways is a very similar thing so people use certain lines where other forms of transport are less represented or are much more expensive and that is what they simply need. What is a particularly important part of the support, it is support for small entrepreneurship, support for research and development, ecological support, energy efficiency, etc., etc. So it's simply this structure that will continue to develop. What I was going to say is, you say well, you'll see in the budget how much money went. You see, I have been very good at analyzing even the budget these days, and Minister Maric helped me yesterday, the day before yesterday when he published a report on the first six months and in these 4.5 billion kunas that were paid in the first half of the year, and they are related to the EU 70 if not more than one percent refers to agricultural payments that go right in the first half of the year. And one very symbolic amount that matches the 118m euros I mentioned earlier applies to all others so-called. Structural funds and cohesion and regional and ESF and everything else and absolutely shows that we have a crisis in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48167	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48168	Thank you, Vice President. So here in one part we might overlap because we're actually thinking the same thing. However, I would like to point out that just now urban agglomerations are very late perhaps and formed, but here since I come from such an one that has received some resources important for development, I must say that both the Ministry of the Regional and other ministries have worked extremely hard during this period when we may have been more free and I think that in that part by the end of the year one part of the funds of significant withdrawal will be very much. And what is important to say last year was that last year's execution was an increase in withdrawal funds from EU funds. What would also point out in the economic movement, and it is normal for us to think about what the support itself is bringing in economic terms, should in particular say that a large part of the support refers to subsidies, what you yourself mentioned, whether it was subsidies in transport, whether it was radio-television broadcasting, and these are A1 subsidies numbered by the sector. And what should also be said is that only broadcasting in total services of general economic interest account for almost more than 30%, so that is what is very significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48169	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48170	Thank you very much. You colleagues are right, agglomeration is something that should first be established in this preparation process, and it is a practical pilot project I could say to the EU, so this is the first financial perspective that any such urban environment programme exists as such, and it should have really been one more serious preparation in that segment. Everything is important but this segment is somewhere up to 5% of the total funding of the Regional Development Fund, meaning only the Regional Development Fund, which means that in the total structure 1.5 may be 2% of the maximum. So there are many other segments that need to work much faster and much more actively, I say, above all, to prepare projects. Because I have been trying as many as I have these last months or a year have not heard that a competition has been launched or a major project has been arranged in Croatia after we have done it in two, three large cases of these Dubrovnik Airport, the Long Selo-Križevci team, the type of Čiovski bridge, the type of bypass Kaštela so all the projects that are funded by eu funds or, say, the Water supply Osijek 550 million kuna, the Vukovar 350 million kuna water supply, the Poreč water supply, the Slavonski Brod, and the Parish, so the Čakovec so huge projects we have negotiated, and I now see only some less than 20, 30, 40 million kuna which unfortunately is not enough to absorb this big money. That's what I'm warning you, and that's where you need to give an extra impulse, that's where you need a new power and a lot more people to work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48171	Thank you very much. And now a few final words will say on behalf of the motionary, distinguished Secretary of State Željko Tufekčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll just take a minute, thank you all for the constructive debates. And once again, I want to apologize for the fact that the 2014 report is in front of you only now because, as I said in the opening statement, there are some objective reasons in the fact that the Parliament was disbanded, that the ministries have crossed over and the data have been re-delivered, etc., but it is behind us. As I said, I believe we'll have the data here in 2016 within a month, two so you can analyze the data for 2016. What is repeatedly highlighted here is the direction and way in which the support is granted, i.e. the structure of these aids for the benefit of sectoral so-called ‘sector’. Good support, and to reduce the horizontal ones, we have seen this for 2015, but this direction will be even more pronounced in 2016, and especially in 2017, because sectoral support will also be reduced nominally, and horizontal support will become more and more significant and nominal amounts that will be allocated to them, which will benefit them will be much greater. I can only point out in horizontals that, for the most part, we are indeed from European funds, but competitions have been called, some of them have already been closed because the funds have been allocated, which are allocated, we are talking about competitions for research and development where there have been competitions opened for entrepreneurs, the second competition for scientific institutions, the third competition for so-called so-called. CECOM, therefore, the competence centres where the project is combined between private entrepreneurship and scientific research institutions. All these tenders have been given a significant interest in users and I believe that the majority for 2016, especially in 2017, will be allocated in the field of research and development of support that will be much greater. Competitions for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs therefore support ESMs. By the end of 2016, the tender had already been closed because the funds that were allocated had already been spent, so they had already been allocated to entrepreneurs. The government has now taken steps to allocate ESM funds in part of grants means grenades to be redistributed and it is on track in the phase of the resolution to allocate additional funds for this particular competition so that we will believe that in 2016 we will already see a significant increase in funds for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The same applies to cultural heritage, therefore, a large competition that was launched and which was also closed because the funds were allocated somewhere around 900 million kuna, environmental protection, etc. One thing she assigned, the other thing that was stressed here, and what absolutely stands is the efficiency of the allocation of these funds, so that the government that is running certain policies measures how effectively it has allocated the funds, which has been achieved with the resources that have been allocated. I think that in the coming years, it will be in a position to measure this more and more, if nothing for the simple reason that all the programmes that are being put in place and through which support is being allocated defines the key indicators, or key objectives that are to be achieved by these tenders, and then any project to which the funds are being allocated and which is being valued, is being valued precisely through these indicators, such as employment, growth of production, growth of income, growth of exports, number of new services, number of new products etc., etc., so that in the coming years we will certainly be in a much better position and we can measure what we have really achieved with the funds that we have allocated. Here's how much, thank you for the discussions and I believe that we will come to you from 2016 very soon, and then I will be able to believe and much more concrete and we will seek the remarks that have come here in terms of the regional distribution of these aids, and others we have heard about in the preparation of the 2016 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48173	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue to work on Tuesday 19 September at 9.30 with the report on the progress of the public procurement system in trade companies. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 16.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-15-0.u48174	We are now going to vote at discussed points. The first is the Annual State Support Report for 2014. The applicant of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Annual State Aid Report 2014 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 111 for, 2 abstentions and 10 against the conclusion proposed by the parent council. Here I saw my hands for a break, if I'm not mistaken, first colleague Simic, colleague Glasnović and colleague Mrak-Taritash.
