ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47197	Good afternoon. We formally start with the next point, I see you all, but let's start with that point, and then we'll get to the break. So the point is: - Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2283 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on novel food, first reading, P.Z.E. No 186. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda shall apply to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law. So we started formally with that point. And now let's see who wants a break, first Mr. Glasnovic, second Mr. Bulj. Mr. Glasnović, what do you want to take a break about?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47198	Honorable Vice President, a strategy on corruption, curbing corruption, a small debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47199	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull is your break?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47200	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, I request on behalf of the Most Club a ten-minute break on the issue of conflict of interest of Minister Maric in the Agrokor case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47201	The third one seemed to me to be Mr. Alexic. Here you go, Mr. Alexic. About what?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, I am requesting a ten-minute break in order to discuss, in the context of the judgment of the EU Court of Justice C186/16, new evidence which is actually old evidence that will serve in the review of the Supreme Court for the final determination of the integrity of the Vlattic Clause CHF.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47203	I think Mr. Whitey asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47204	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HSS Club, I'm looking for a break on the subject of the night blogging war.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47205	Okay. No more breaks. As you can see, anything you're looking for as a topic is approved, so we've done that part formally. Here in ten minutes we're here 9.36 is at 9.45 we're here. It's 9:00.36. [[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING IN 9,48 HOURS]] I thought you were gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47207	Dear colleagues, like this, the Anti-Corruption Strategy was adopted, adopted in February 2015, we have the strategy until 20 years, the question of where is the report from this committee requested by Mr Jovanovic, what we found out where the IPR is and progress report, what is happening, whether the parliamentary representatives know, what about the report, what about the money that was exported outside Croatia, you have a report from Global Finance Integrity that disappeared from Croatia between '06. And in '14. About $34 billion, where money was stolen from the former state until the '90s that's coming back today like... investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about pre-fashion deals that are bigger than privatisation itself, etc., etc.? What about unpaid taxes, with hundreds of companies without one employee and why we're paralyzed as a state for corruption. Secondly, I'm going to turn a little bit on this feature in Croatia, banning the HoS board, it's forbidden, at the same time the Chetnic features are not banned. The Chetniks first took the skull and bones, the morgue before anyone in Europe, before... You also have, this sign of Chetnic here is not prohibited, you have in the Ministry of Administration a man who promoted that Chetnic ideology, named Dean Drakulić, working in the Croatian government today, there in Croatian structures, no one is talking about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would just point out that the Chetniks were the first actually in Serbia to form the first fascist squad of Mita Ljotic in the '20s. And we know the report from Nedic in '41. that the first Judenfrei state to solve the Jewish question was Serbia, you have a report there to the Germans etc.. Should we ban the symbol of the great Serbian imperialism here, and that is the cocardine, the 4C that killed hundreds of thousands of people from 1912 to the day today, nobody is talking about it, we also mentioned Ljotic, etc., here perhaps it should, perhaps it should be here if we put instead of 4C only the style of a Serb saves to put only... The Serb saves because they killed from here in '95. The weather of the storm. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's unacceptable that we still have those features here and we're talking about the HoS board. At the same time you have a commission in Serbia, I spoke with Mr. Matic here for post-traumatic victims who have recorded the name of the War Victims Commission since October of '44. When the 3rd Ukrainian Corps entered Serbia's Red Army name, about 18,000 names. We have nothing, actually they are ahead of us on this matter because they record the victims of this terror and there may be comrades celebrating, these comrades here celebrating the other Tito, entering the Red Army, it's soon now 10 months, etc. In the end we have here, we are talking about marriage, that we are talking about the marriage that is present in Croatia today, it is silent about Croatian media, they are networked in all... Guys, some people don't get it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that marriage had its own files, had individual files for every man sitting here has individual files that were co-workers. Today in the police, in the government, they wrote the Constitution, they had code names like "Miller, Degenerek" etc. Now that's, we're talking about masseony, we have our own masseuse here, they're ex-humans holding us hostage. Here, let me show you the individual files that it looks like. This is the person who worked outside, snitching on the Croats outside, in Germany, where about 50, 60 of our patriots were killed. I have the code name of her Teresa, etc., it doesn't concern anyone but we're still dealing with nebuloses and we're talking about national security. These people are networked today, I mentioned before that it was taken before the '90s, the fall of the Berlin Wall, hundreds of millions of dollars to bank accounts outside, bank accounts down. What's he doing about that corruption control committee? Follow the money trail, you have Interpol, Europol, you have others there,... in Canada, etc., it's a miracle we can't trace that money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These people are coming back today, opening the Aces of Marina on the Adriatic, etc. We're talking about Agrokor, what about the other heads? Mr. Crescent. - The constable? - Mr. Crescent. A speck, mr. The cave, no one's talking about it. And they're on target, yes, they're on target. Mamic, Vidosevic and others. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you Mr. Glasnović, over, thank you we are done, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47208	Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović, when you talk about the marriages, about the Masons, it's your problem, and nobody can tell you, nobody can tell you, but if I understand correctly, you said that some Chetnik is sitting in the Department of Administration and I would ask you to be careful when you say such things. I'd like you to be careful. The other is Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47209	Thank you very much, President, colleagues and colleagues. The fact and all of us have witnessed that Minister Maric, Zdravko does not want to answer the questions I asked twice yesterday and from this pay phone and from where I cannot get an answer, whether he was at a meeting with Todorovic in the government, is on February 26th. He doesn't want to answer, and a man who's been acting like a finance minister in the biggest crisis in the Republic of Croatia since he's had the exception in the Agrokor case and who's been silent all along and who's been pretending to know nothing, and in fact if this is true, and the truth because he doesn't want to give a reply to Minister Maric, is a man who's been pulling strings, who's been in government, I asked him if it's true whether he was 3.3, on the basis of Prime Minister Plenkovic's instructions, he went to Ivica Todorovic alone for the meeting and my second time, I publicly ask him a question, yesterday he left this assembly, when I asked him no more. The people need to know if Minister Maric participated in meetings when Todorovic was in the case of Agrokor in the government, whether he was now under Prime Minister Plenkovic's orders with Todorovic, he is not giving any answers. He's not that I'm quoting now a blog that I don't read from Ivica Todorovic because there's nothing in it. Ivica Todorovic is time to tell him how much all the finance ministers sitting here in the Parliament helped him, whether he paid the tax, gave him and was tax inspection, whether Minister Maric helped him while he was an assistant to the former governments before he became an employee, we want that. Who allowed the entire Croatian economic system of Todorovic to hold his neck? Well, Mr. Todorovic, I see you're active, look at this, write down who gave you the opportunity to capture all of Croatia both during the Homeland War and in the field of the Homeland War and not by deception, spins to justify yourself. And those he wants to portray as his enemies are basically your friends, because they made it possible for you to get into this situation and that Croatia today, agricultural land threatens to go into foreign hands, sources of our drinking water, who will be responsible? Write down Mr. Todorov's names and last name for you. From the first prime minister to the last prime minister. Who did you pay for the campaign, Mr. Todorovic? Who are your people in the ministries who gave subsidies and incentives? Who are your people in the CNB against whom I filed a personal criminal report? They've threatened the stability of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Todorovic, of what they've allowed you to use without cover 10 billion in traffic, 10 billion kuna. Mr. Wolfie, where are you? Answer me. Mr. Rohatinski, ministers, where are you former finance? Come out, sit in the Parliament. What did you do to make this happen? Not spins through blogs and talk about blogger Todorovic and the night hours of his or Martina Dalic or anyone else. If this is true, and I believe that since Minister Maric did not respond to my inquiry yesterday while he was in Parliament, that this is true, the time to answer whether he was at meetings where Ivica Todorovic was when it was discussed about the Agrokor case because he was exempt and MOST was not responding, that is why the exaggeration occurred. That's what HNS was responsible for. The time to tell the truth, especially you who were in politics, finance ministers, you who managed the financial system, and I ask the DORH to say 7.4. This year I filed criminal charges against HANFA and the CNB, what did they do and can they do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47210	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Mr. Bolt asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47211	Your Honor, Vice President. I don't know if this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I think it's my turn to inform the Croatian public. So Article 237, while my colleague Bulj was speaking, my colleague Shuker referred me to a threat and said I would pay for this. [[Intruder Radin: Please, just say the article.]] If he's recognized it's true, Mr. Shucker. The other day, when the chairman warned you, you said you asked us where you were. Now I want to know what you're going to say about this threat you've given us. But we will continue to call you because of what you did about Agrokor, you made this possible by all those who managed Croatia and you will not intimidate me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47212	Mr. Shuker also requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47213	In accordance with Article 238, a representative of the European Parliament and of the Council shall be a Has anyone in this assembly heard me say a word? I invite you all colleagues, has anyone in this assembly heard me say a word?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47214	We want to get a polygraph, Shuker?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47215	We can't, no, no, that's it. Say whatever, but one at a time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47216	But first, I didn't keep sheep with you to tell me you, that's one thing. The other thing, in this assembly, there's been an accusation of who's coming and... There are colleagues who have 10 lost judgments, don't pay, therefore, this state has its legal authorities doing their job, if we don't believe those authorities are doing their job,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, what you're doing, my colleague, is simply inadmissible, incorrect, that you throw away all the time to someone else, I repeat my colleagues and colleagues, did anyone hear anything that I said to someone? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47217	I'm ready with you on a polygraph whenever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47218	Let's make a deal. Let's not tell others they're getting it and then throw it at us. Please, nice. Please, nice. You have the right to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure, one by one, state your reasons, all of you listen to you. And other things you solve for each other wherever you want, you want, and you know, because the public only wants to know the content, doesn't want to see your emotional outbursts. The third is Mr. Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47219	Thank you, dear Vice President Radin. I'd like to present some evidence that will help the Supreme Court to establish in a new audit against banks the impurity and integrity of the CHF currency clause. Let us remember, last week, the EU court made a historic and very important judgment C 186/16 which found that in the case of a foreign currency contract, that is, the currency clause is not sufficient for such a provision in the contract to be grammatically formally clear. However, when negotiating such a clause, the bank must warn the debtor of the possible economic consequences that such a clause may have for him. And all the risks arising from such a contractual obligation, with what the Supreme Court ruled in its first audit and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, found that it was not enough. That is exactly what the Supreme Court has ruled is, in some way, insufficient. Because the Supreme Court evaluated only the grammatical and formal clarity of the agreed currency clause, and did not assess the circumstances at the time when it was signed. And what could that mean in the future? Meanwhile, we learn about the report from the International Monetary Fund, which suggests that banks knew that the Swiss franc would grow and did not warn the debtors. So let's take a turn from the latest history, then go to the day-to-day sow. In 2007, the IMF warns, all EU members, and above all banks, that loans with the Swiss franc currency clause are risky and that there is a possibility that the CHF currency clause will grow in the future. And that this is particularly important for the countries of Eastern Europe because there are the most such loans there. It is the year of the largest expansion of such loans in Croatia. Therefore, after warning the IMF banks do not break such a practice, but continue to offer such loans. In 2005, the IMF warns the Republic of Austria, from which banks most offer such loans, of the risks posed by such a currency clause on loans, so it warns, firstly, that for the public this means that loans can be collected and that they can come at risk of not being able to repay such loans. For the IMF banks in Austria, banks in Austria in 2005, it warns that this is a reputation and risk for banks, new bad loans. For the state, it says, the state of the Republic of Austria could be in trouble because it will be accused of not preventing such loans. That was 2005. Austrian banks, which were operating in the Republic of Croatia, did not give up on such loans. In 2002, on the Stock Exchange portal, Erste Bank's foreign exchange manager warned in an article that CHF is the currency of the so-called ‘. Safe who currency. What does that mean? This means that capital runs into that currency at the time of the economic crisis. So it warns of some historical details, when capital was running into CHF currency, which is why the currency grew rapidly compared to other currencies. Judge Radovan Dobranic warns in his ruling on pages 139 and 140 that in 2000, the IMF warned of the risks of the CHF currency clause, as the currency can grow relative to the euro due to the expansion of the euro zone. So despite all these IMF reports, banks in the Republic of Croatia did not warn about the differences made by the CHF currency clause in relation to the euro currency clause. Because what's the difference? The CHF currency clause is not protected, so the kuna is not protected from the growth of the CHF currency clause, from the CHF currency, but is protected from the euro. Then, CHF is the currency in which it records capital during the crisis. The ruling, the new verdict, the new review of the Supreme Court, will have to be based on the judgment of the EU Court of Justice C 186/16 and the Supreme Court will have to establish the dishonesty of the CHF currency clause which it refused to do in the first audit, because it considered everything to be grammatically clear. So grammatical clarity isn't enough and I expect a different revision this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47220	Thank you both for your time. Mr. Whiteman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47221	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary representatives and MPs. On behalf of the HSS, I asked for a break to ask that in Croatia, to back up a kind of truce. In fact, we're falling from war to war, so we're still fighting the Homeland War, and we haven't solved it obviously yet. We are still fighting World War II, we are expected to start again soon and the 1st World War and the last few days we have a small, quiet, night blogging war. I think the Croatian public has had enough of this and these stories about Agrokor and all that's going on, these accusations of people, who have practically created Agrokor together, and now, together, they destroy it or participate in the destruction. I suggest that the Croatian government withdraw Lex Agrokor to make a very simple revision of those who are most damaged in this whole crisis, which are small suppliers, that the state pays them directly out of the budget so that they do not fail, and that the rest of these huge, large, bloated Croatian privatisation shames leave the market and that nothing drastic or significant happens to them and that we end up letting the DORH and the institutions do their jobs if they want to do it. He'd also refer to the Family Law, which was the word yesterday. I think Mr. Plenkovic's administration when he says he didn't know, that he didn't see because I think the man is aware enough that such nonsense, that the family can only be if the children inside the family can't go through, but I ask Mr. Plenkovic to think a little bit more twice about his associates because he obviously chose those people he doesn't communicate with, who don't believe and who do this kind of nonsense because they do this to him and the ruling page and the ruling locks, but also the damage in the messianic space because a potentially good story about strengthening the Croatian family is compromised in this way. At the end of the messages for Croatian hypocritical ultra-rightists whose every other word and every other debate is UDBA, it suggests that in this tall body they initiate a procedure for changing the name of the Croatian city of Udbin because the city is too reminded of the dark so-called "dark". The black communist past so let the city be called fate in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47222	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47228	We have a request for a break, a respected colleague of Ninčević-Lesandric Ivana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47229	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to ask for a break regarding the latest knowledge of micro and small entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47230	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? If you don't mind, I'd like to let my colleague say we're not taking a break right now. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47231	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow MPs and MPs. I called today's break because we have as the first to announce the latest knowledge about the treatment that micro and small entrepreneurs have in our country, so I'll start from the very beginning. So I'm talking about the e-impulse contest that we had exactly a year ago for which applications took place on 11.9 last year, so today it's 29.9. so the entrepreneurs still haven't received a kuna of 250 million kuna. Right now, they've got the results, and the contracts are only in preparation. What is important is to note, which is that applications arrive at the ministry in 11.9. while the ministry is obliged to report to the HAMAG BICRO that is doing the evaluation. To my parliamentary question, Minister Dalic, when the handover was handed over to HAMAG BICRO, the minister replied that it was 27.12. So 4 months, those applications were in some hallway and collecting dust. 4 months at the same time, the state used a telephone call to finance megalomanic and bad projects, while at the same time the pillar of the Croatian economy stands in the hallway and collects dust. I will repeat, at the same time the day is a credit to Agrokor for which we are all aware today that he will not return, while at the same time small and micro entrepreneurs who are the pillar of this economy are standing in the hallway waiting, waiting, waiting, for 4 months for people who need to make an evaluation at the same time to receive wages. And unfortunately, that's not the only problem. Meanwhile, an anonymous application took place after media reports and replies from the ministry. Namely, this particular evaluation was said to be carried out by SORs of people who are on vocational training. People who have been trained to evaluate 250 million kuna projects for micro and small entrepreneurs. This is just another proof that it is more important in our country to finance a megalomanic bad project than those that tomorrow should be the future of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-29-0.u47232	I thank my esteemed colleague Ivana Lesandric-Ninčević for the reason of the break.
