ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55517	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the sixth session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, Vice-President, Vice-President and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Information only at the beginning. The minutes from the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament are not prepared for technical reasons, so we will adopt it at the next session. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. The final draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. In the final draft agenda, I included 9 new points under regular numbers 4, 5. 7, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17 and 18. These are: Proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. Proposal to launch a trust issue with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Final draft law on the transfer of pension rights. The final proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the Compensation of Assets. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act. Proposal for a law on archive materials and archives. Proposal for a State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and projection for 2019 and 2020 I Final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018, second reading. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure will be decided on a bill proposed by the Proposer to adopt in an emergency procedure. This is point 45 of the final draft agenda. This is the proposal for a law supplementing the Executive Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 216. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? In the absence of any comments, I note that the proposal for an emergency procedure has been adopted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 225(3). The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Is there any of the MPs and deputies objecting to the agenda of the final draft agenda which did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation to the sixth session. I repeat these again are points under regular numbers 4, 5, 7, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17 and 18, so I wouldn't read them again by name. Anybody got any objections? If there is no objection, I would like to confirm that these points are also included in the sixth session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda is set for this. In accordance with Article 228, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure should now publish it by reading all the points. I suggest that if you agree that I do not read it in full, let me announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda with these amendments. Now we're going to the vote. First of all, I'm going to suggest an addition to the sixth session's agenda with 11 new points. These are the following points: 1. Proposal for a law on the use of an assistant dog and a therapeutic dog with a final bill. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. 2. Proposal for a law on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia. 3. Proposal for a law on the protection of undiscovered knowledge, experience and business information. 4. Proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation No. 511/2014. on coordination measures for users of the Nagoya Protocol on the access to genetic resources and the fair and fair division of profits resulting from their use in the Union. 5. Proposal for a law on the protection of debtors in special cases of transfer of demand Proposer of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA. Six. Report on the implementation of mine action activities and spent financial resources in 2015 and 2016, 7. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace "RESOLUTE SUSPORT" in Afghanistan, 8. Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the "KFOR" Peace Support Operation in Kosovo, 9. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the EU NAVFOR Peace Support operation Somalia-Atalanta, 10. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN peacekeeping support operations and 11. A proposal for a decision to refer members of the Armed Forces to NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national and multinational commands in operations and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership. These acts are published on the website of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out firstly that the proposal to adopt an individual law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure, so I ask you to engage yourself for a check of the quorum. I find that we have 136 present representatives, so we have a quorum. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption under point 1 of the proposed supplement, this proposal for a law on the use of an assistant dog and a therapeutic dog, with the final proposal of the law, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 221, is the SDP Representatives' Club proposing? Where there is no objection, I shall consider or be deemed to have accepted a proposal for an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. Any of the MPs and representatives have objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 6th session, these are points 2 to 11 of the proposed additions? If there are no objections these points are included in the session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that's how the addition of the agenda was established.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55523	Thank you, Mr. President. Within a week, the Assembly will conclude its meeting for 2017 and we have now placed 16 new points on the agenda and on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament there is a programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2014, 2015, and '16th year and 2017 is on the run. I ask you, as President of the Parliament, to allow this Parliament to discuss the financial and programme report of the Croatian Olympic Committee, otherwise it cannot be taken away from the impression that HDZ in some way wants to prevent discussion of Croatian sport and problems about Croatian sport in this House of Higher Education. It sounds a little funny that we haven't discussed the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee in 3 years. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55524	I agree with you, and I took advantage of my authority and that point will be on the agenda next week. All right, if there are no other objections, if there are no other objections to this point are items 5 to 15 included in the session agenda. ... [[Applause.]] I've only been here five minutes, so I couldn't hear you 55. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55525	So look here, we have today's agenda for December 8, there are important laws. Look, I think politics should be a priority, it's a law on work, water, etc. It's impossible for some people who do other jobs here and can't come every day here and including me who I'm here almost every day to study all these laws, is it possible to make some sort of schedule that we're prioritizing some tasks that are important for the development of this Republic and that this other thing that's irrelevant, I mean, it's all important, because it's total information overload. That's, if you had three legal teams for every MP you wouldn't study all these laws. I don't understand this today, we got today's agenda where you have points here, how many points you have here three sides almost and we still have one supplement. I mean, it's for me, it's critical for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55526	I thank you for your objection. Any other objections? If there is no then, I will conclude that points 5 to 15 of the proposed amendments are included in the agenda of the sittings, so as to conclude that the addition of the agenda has been established. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the sixth session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, Vice-President, Vice-President and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Information only at the beginning. The minutes from the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament are not prepared for technical reasons, so we will adopt it at the next session. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. The final draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. In the final draft agenda, I included 9 new points under regular numbers 4, 5. 7, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17 and 18. These are: Proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. Proposal to launch a trust issue with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Final draft law on the transfer of pension rights. The final proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the Compensation of Assets. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act. Proposal for a law on archive materials and archives. Proposal for a State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and projection for 2019 and 2020 I Final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018, second reading. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure will be decided on a bill proposed by the Proposer to adopt in an emergency procedure. This is point 45 of the final draft agenda. This is the proposal for a law supplementing the Executive Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 216. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? In the absence of any comments, I note that the proposal for an emergency procedure has been adopted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 225(3). The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Is there any of the MPs and deputies objecting to the agenda of the final draft agenda which did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation to the sixth session. I repeat these again are points under regular numbers 4, 5, 7, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17 and 18, so I wouldn't read them again by name. Anybody got any objections? If there is no objection, I would like to confirm that these points are also included in the sixth session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda is set for this. In accordance with Article 228, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure should now publish it by reading all the points. I suggest that if you agree that I do not read it in full, let me announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda with these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55533	Thank you, Mr. President. Within a week, the Assembly will conclude its meeting for 2017 and we have now placed 16 new points on the agenda and on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament there is a programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2014, 2015, and '16th year and 2017 is on the run. I ask you, as President of the Parliament, to allow this Parliament to discuss the financial and programme report of the Croatian Olympic Committee, otherwise it cannot be taken away from the impression that HDZ in some way wants to prevent discussion of Croatian sport and problems about Croatian sport in this House of Higher Education. It sounds a little funny that we haven't discussed the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee in 3 years. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55534	I agree with you, and I took advantage of my authority and that point will be on the agenda next week. All right, if there are no other objections, if there are no other objections to this point are items 5 to 15 included in the session agenda. ... [[Applause.]] I've only been here five minutes, so I couldn't hear you 55. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55535	So look here, we have today's agenda for December 8, there are important laws. Look, I think politics should be a priority, it's a law on work, water, etc. It's impossible for some people who do other jobs here and can't come every day here and including me who I'm here almost every day to study all these laws, is it possible to make some sort of schedule that we're prioritizing some tasks that are important for the development of this Republic and that this other thing that's irrelevant, I mean, it's all important, because it's total information overload. That's, if you had three legal teams for every MP you wouldn't study all these laws. I don't understand this today, we got today's agenda where you have points here, how many points you have here three sides almost and we still have one supplement. I mean, it's for me, it's critical for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55536	I thank you for your objection. Any other objections? If there is no then, I will conclude that points 5 to 15 of the proposed amendments are included in the agenda of the sittings, so as to conclude that the addition of the agenda has been established. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.04 HOURS]] But we've got a break notice before. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55538	President-in-Office of the Parliament, on behalf of the representative of the Independent Lists Club, I request a 10-minute break on the subject of public procurement to the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55539	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55540	It's working now. So on the theme of the bridge in the Houses near Velika Gorica which is not yet finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55541	I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55542	There is a place near Velika Gorica house that is Turopolje and there have a wooden bridge that has not been renovated and HDZ has closed it for people instead of restoring it. Here's to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55543	A colleague of Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55544	On the subject of the Bitch Bridge, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55545	Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55546	Bitches bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55547	Bitches bridge, good. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55548	Dear Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club regarding public procurement at the Ministry of Regional Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55549	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? She's a colleague of Martinchev-Juritch's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55550	On the same topic, the HDZ Club is public procurement at the Ministry of Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55551	Thank you. That's five demands. We can if you're ready to leave right now or we'll take a break? Okay? 10 minutes, then. At 3:20 p.m. It's 15.10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.20 HOURS]] The first is the honorary colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55553	Thank you very much, dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, today's edition of the Morning, in fact, has brought to light one of the problems that we think we should talk about in this House. Namely, there are serious charges at the expense of the Ministry of Regional Development and the Minister of Regional Development, that she tried and failed to please the company whose owner is her acquaintance, friend, business associate from some earlier times. What I would say is where is the problem of all that the Ministry of Regional Development is in charge of controlling public procurement within the EU projects, within the framework of an operational programme of competitiveness of cohesion where there is an allocation of seven billion kuna and if such doubts are opened to one job where, I would correct it, is listed incorrectly and in the media, ten million kuna, is actually over twelve million kuna because this is a VAT-free data, then the question is how will the competent ministry control users if and only violate public procurement procedures. Here, I took a little analysis of the procurement plan that the Ministry announced, so for the purchase in question in the first original procurement plan, it is said that five million and seventy-seven hundred forty-four thousand kuna, the open procedure within services. Then, during the first amendment, this item was deleted. So then there's a new item, it's getting an IT platform where, so from that 5.7 million already went to 9.8 million kuna. The third amendment to the procurement plan then deletes the open procedure and becomes a negotiation procedure without public publication. In the fourth change, another iteration on the topic, specifically this procurement itself gets the title, that platform then has the name PLUR. It's already directly bound to the micro group because their system software is called PLUR. And what is still happening in the public tender itself – it is not called for services, but the competition is for the purchase of goods although the purchase plan stands under the service. Here we see a whole series of shops where only the Ministry has repeatedly dealt with the procurement in question, where it has changed circumstances, terms, deleted one item in the same title as not to follow the following, put on, so there is a reasonable fact that it was going to be convenient, but here is the lucky one, and then the KING ICT, the company that considered it, not only them, but other companies that did similar software so that they could deliver a similar software that the Ministry is looking for. And that was accepted by the State Commission and annulled the procurement in question. After that excuse, actually justifying the Ministry of Regional Development, I say, it's not a problem, it's annulled, we need it, we're going to open procedure. That's why I wanted to list this whole iteration about the changes in the procurement plan where, from an open procedure to which we would call for technical characteristics defined by the Ministry, we would be preparing this software, we would also see the price achieved like this, at the end of the open procedure, we came to an open procedure that only one company microproject and development platform, because they share the same property, if they could report as a community to it. However, what I would have warned, if it weren't only a problem, because as a minister of the economy I was also in charge of public procurement and we had a lot of analysis of public procurement, when I looked at now only the public procurement of the Ministry of Regional Development, one item that you can all laityly notice is the issue of representation. A total of 2.3 million teams will be spent by the Ministry of Regional Development this year. And it'll all be spent through a bunch of great, simple purchases. It is distributed in 13 items where a specific item states that there will be more simple purchases. The basis, in fact, of the whole public procurement process is that there is no sharing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55554	Comrade Panenić, time is up. Thank you. We now move to another club of representatives, which is the Living Wall and the Power and Honored colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55555	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity to be in Velika Gorica, i.e. the town of Doće near Velika Gorica, the inhabitants of the region have a problem in the sense that the bridge that connects them with the rest of Turopolje through some channel that is owned, i.e. under the rule of Croatian waters, the old wooden bridge is no longer in operation. So people are let's say, cut off from the queen. And what's going on? It creates them, of course, they have to go a whole long way, etc. etc., and now that the state is the county, the town of Velika, what they should have done – they should have made a new bridge that is not wooden. Why? Because the wooden bridge by its nature will fall apart every once in a while and will have to work on a new one all the time. It's better to build a real, high-quality bridge. Unfortunately, this country, this county and the town of Velika Gorica, do not have in their plans to build that bridge and logically, that is, citizens must go round the road, waste their time, nerves, etc., needlessly. I think it's all a matter of priority, I think it could've been done to make a wish. I think this is a matter of political will, and when I look at what the state money is going to do, what everything is going to do with it, I think that this bridge should be a priority and that it would simply mean a lot to the citizens who live there. I believe that the responsibility of HDZ is the biggest because they manage both the state and the Croatian waters, and the City of Velika Gorica under which it belongs, and thus its construction is the result of the actual politics of the HDZ again. And now, what do you say next? What do you say next, ladies and gentlemen? I don't like it, people are in trouble, problems aren't solved. The same thing you did with Strabbag's asphalt base that poisons them there, and you also pushed it to build, and the same thing bothers people very much. Give me something you can do about it. People will be grateful to you, they'll be happier. This is how they'll be sad and unhappy. There you go. Thank you. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55556	Okay. Let's move on. The club of representatives is HSU's esteemed colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55557	What would you say to us in Turopoly: “God... that I have called." [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So counterpart Parnar obviously doesn't have all the information, so it should be said from the end, so it's true that the HDZ administration is guilty. But what's most important at this hour is two bridges in that same area. It's one that connects Bitch's area with the redfish with the settlement of Čička Poljana. You all know this village because of multiple catastrophic floods. And the second bridge is this Kučki bridge mentioned by colleague Pernar, also the wooden one that connects the settlement of Kuče through the cargo canal of Sava – Kupa or Odra, ultimately which is never finished, but only reached the Turopoljski Luga, which connects the settlement with the area in which Turopolje and Rakitovac are located. It's an extremely important bridge because it's a public transport-driving vehicle, so a bus that connects several settlements. The Javashake of local self-government is among other things that bought oaks of construction for the House Bridge three years ago and under the pretext of drying nothing is done for three years. And now, miraculously, a month ago, information was released that the City Administration of Velika Gorica and Croatia's water had agreed to build an armored-beton bridge. So, for three years, they've been pulling the noses of the citizens of that area, claiming that the building is drying up, and it's about to happen. I guess it blew a little bit. So now all of a sudden, there's a story about an armored concrete bridge. These two wooden bridges, about the one in the Chicago Pole, no one seems to even speak, and it is an integral part of the region of the Odre River and should also seriously adhere to its reconstruction, are actually part of the ambience value of Turopolje. Today building reinforced concrete bridges there is technologically advanced, but we also know that it is possible with new technologies to build quality wooden bridges that would remain part of this tradition and not impose a new concrete picture of the end, but would still fit into the environment. What is amazing is the indolence of Croatian waters all these years because of the construction of these bridges as well as the reconstruction of the so-called so-called so-called bridge. Siphon, as well as the recovery of the embankment, so if you want in the final and definition of the end of the Savo cargo channel – Odra are part of the overall efforts to avoid the catastrophic images that we saw in 2010 and 2012 in floods in that area that destroyed several hundred households. And it is amazing that even after years in which I have sought here in the Croatian Assembly of Ministers who have been responsible for the water business of the economy to come out with plans and reconstructions so-called. the constitutions in the Sub-Nearly, or in Strmac Samoborski, by preventing a large water wave from passing towards Zagreb and allowing it to be poured into the cargo canal. So nothing's been done yet. The threat of the City of Zagreb and the surroundings of Zagreb since the flood is as high as at that time, and it is extremely high because of the uncontrolled gravel in Sava where the trough is deepened and it is something that all administrations have been carrying on their soul as a crime in the last 15 years because no one is doing anything. It is high time to start quality projects and quality infrastructure operations on water installations and Karlovac, and the City of Zagreb and its surroundings, because we don't know if a new danger like those from 2010 and 2012 will occur tomorrow. The story of the Bitch Bridge is just one of them, but it shows how the citizens are wrong and how to buy one build for social money first, and now new works are being ordered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55558	Thank you. Let's move on. Now, a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, is working on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55559	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, you know that saying, "the wolf changes the hair but doesn't" so we can apply it to HDZs that change suits, presidents, but some habits remain unchanged. Corruption is a cancer of the early Croatian society. We hoped that some times had passed and that it would not be repeated, but here these days we also heard from fellow Panenic, that it seems without corruption, conflicts of interest of HDZ ministers cannot and do not know. Mrs. Gabriela Žalac gave a job worth ten million kuna without an open procurement procedure to her friend, the Split company Microproject. What's very interesting is that Minister Zhalac called on this particular gentleman to join the ministry's co-workers and agreed with him there on the conditions under which the competitions would be called. Well, dear colleagues and colleagues, do you think that's normal? Is that okay? Does it remind you of any other Lex Agrocores and arrangements with vulture funds that have received information about buying cheap and then selling expensively? So, corruption in Croatia unfortunately, the corrupt octopus again takes epic proportions. But what is most tragic is the whole story, and it raises the question of whether Ms. Gralac is capable at all, is running this ministry where each kuna is viewed under the increase of the European Commission and all the bodies of Olaf and others who are monitoring whether European money is being spent in a transparent manner. Because what did Mrs. Grief say? I continue to wonder if this is literally transmitted – because if it is passed on I think Mrs. Sadac must also join all those who are part of the government leaving. So, Mrs. Gralac said, I quote: “That amount of ten million kuna, I don’t think that this is of any great value in the context of what is at our disposal and what we need.” So, the ten million kuna she has assigned to her friend is no problem for her. And what happens when there are even fewer amounts? Therefore, we have an example of guessing friends, friends, and another piece of evidence of partnered association that seems to mark this government on its way out. I will remind you in 2015, thanks to the efforts of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, we have finally come out of a circle of corrupt countries, we had, we were 51st place which is believed not to be in the circle of corrupt people. However, already in 2016, thanks to former Oreshkovic, we came to 55th place which is a highly corrupt state and with fear of what kind of corruption perception index will be for 2017 for this year. Therefore, according to Rand, Croatia is among the most corrupt countries in Europe when it comes to public procurement, at the level of Bulgaria and Romania. Therefore, Mrs. Zalac and another partner contract, Mr. Bear with 519 cars where delivery time is 22 days, a typical example of setting up and another partner contract. Ninety percent of the payment of those contracts after a review at the manufacturer's warehouse! So where are my men? And to conclude with sugar, Mr Tolusic gave a million euros to the failed companies of Mr Lucic -- and another partner contract. Comrades and colleagues, it is time to move towards the departure of this government of partnered, corrupt contracts from this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55560	Just a little colleague of Martinchev-Juric's, we have a breach of the rules of procedure, the esteemed Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55561	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Jovanovic, you are a 238 member and you are obviously a representative of someone because you spread lies like everyone else, and you will soon understand that what you said today, you have told the truth. So please, don't use something you don't know because all those who instructed you are also people who are telling the truth. I'm asking you not to do that anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55562	Comrade Lucic, there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure so there is nothing I can do, but here is another violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55563	Mr. President Jandrokovic, I ask you to hold a meeting of the Club of Representatives and you, as chairman of this Assembly, teach them what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure and not to abuse that instrument.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55564	Comrade Jovanovic, I beg you, I beg you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55565	And then they make us hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55566	Now, I'm asking you if anyone is hurting the Rules of Procedure with that tablet, then that's what your MPs do. And I've been very correct and fair and I've never put too much emphasis on it. But not now, I didn't let my colleague Lucic and I said it wasn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure and don't do circus like this now. We're moving on. Dear Branko Juričev-Martinchev on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55567	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! It's fascinating to watch and listen as the parliamentary representatives so little know about the Public Procurement Act. I'm particularly surprised to you, colleague Panenić, who ran one of the municipalities. Do you know that the Public Procurement Act prescribes negotiation and law when it comes to intellectual property! Tell me, when you contracted or arranged a lawyer team to defend any proceedings or litigation of your municipality, did you call a public tender and choose the most favourable, or cheapest lawyer, what does the cheapest lawyer wear, and what can he bring you to the municipality? No, you were doing a negotiation procedure. When it comes to the fact that this team that Minister Zhalac was planning, she didn't sign the contract and give the job to the firm, because then there wouldn't even be a complaint, walked through the ministry, did these lawyers and your municipality have walked through your community for years, so you decided that it was a really reliable lawyer team, and that you're going to make a contract on the negotiating team for the next year? I'm sure you do. This is about intellectual property and it is about IT solutions that are protected in terms of the rules governing these rights and the basis of the Public Procurement Act. And that's why it went into negotiation. You have expressed your regrets and colleagues from the SDP Club and you from the Most Club, that Minister Žalac will manage several million-euro tenders in the coming period. It will. And for this very reason we know very well all of us who have worked on these projects such as controls, far greater and stronger than ours, without telling our journalists who have pulled something from the State Commission's public procurement control. What happened was the fact and the truth that the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure adopted a complaint by KING and adopted a decision to annul the negotiation process. But let's not show the public now that all that is a negotiating process, that all this crime is corrupt and so on. Minister Žalac is a minister who has made a lot of efforts over the past period. This way when we talk about mayors and sheriffs who are sheriffs, when we talk about ministers who are all corrupt criminals and what do we get in due course? I wouldn't recommend my child to do a job like that. I don't believe you after words like this in this assembly. If journalists write about it in such a way they can accept it, but the journalists have written and there is not long that we also read the titles of who is best man God Petrova whom MOST wants in Croatian water. God of Petrova from the street ruled the Croatian waters, the workers forced them to fake the Lečevica report. It seems that MOST changes the status of Croatian waters so that the godfather God Petrova could hire in the administration. What happened to the 5 million euros received by the University of Osijek? What's Jakovina doing? Well, we could all put together articles and articles and texts. ... I think this is ugly. [[You can't hear it.]] And at least we don't have to use this office. I'm begging you. Hence, a little respect for work [[Don't throw it away. Please don't! Don't throw it away.]] It is one of hundreds of complaints adopted by the State Commission, and therefore the ministry should act, and we do not need to talk about it right away. [[/Intruder President: Col. Panenić, please. Just a little Branka. Just a little bit, please. So you've said yours, and you've made unpleasant accusations, now let your colleague speak freely.]] We'll talk about the results. That the Ministry of Regional Development and the minister significantly speeded up the use of ESI funds that a tender worth 2 billion euros was announced during the first 9 months, and in 2015 and the sixteenth total was 2.8 billion euros. This resulted in 45% of the total allocations for 2014 and 20th and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55568	Thank you. That's when we came to the end of the debate after the break. I would only ask you to call now for the next point of the Prime Minister and his associates. Can you work with me? Please. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.04 HOURS]] But we've got a break notice before. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55570	President-in-Office of the Parliament, on behalf of the representative of the Independent Lists Club, I request a 10-minute break on the subject of public procurement to the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55571	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55572	It's working now. So on the theme of the bridge in the Houses near Velika Gorica which is not yet finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55573	I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55574	There is a place near Velika Gorica house that is Turopolje and there have a wooden bridge that has not been renovated and HDZ has closed it for people instead of restoring it. Here's to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55575	A colleague of Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55576	On the subject of the Bitch Bridge, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55577	Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55578	Bitches bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55579	Bitches bridge, good. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55580	Dear Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club regarding public procurement at the Ministry of Regional Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55581	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? She's a colleague of Martinchev-Juritch's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55582	On the same topic, the HDZ Club is public procurement at the Ministry of Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55583	Thank you. That's five demands. We can if you're ready to leave right now or we'll take a break? Okay? 10 minutes, then. At 3:20 p.m. It's 15.10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.20 HOURS]] The first is the honorary colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55585	Thank you very much, dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, today's edition of the Morning, in fact, has brought to light one of the problems that we think we should talk about in this House. Namely, there are serious charges at the expense of the Ministry of Regional Development and the Minister of Regional Development, that she tried and failed to please the company whose owner is her acquaintance, friend, business associate from some earlier times. What I would say is where is the problem of all that the Ministry of Regional Development is in charge of controlling public procurement within the EU projects, within the framework of an operational programme of competitiveness of cohesion where there is an allocation of seven billion kuna and if such doubts are opened to one job where, I would correct it, is listed incorrectly and in the media, ten million kuna, is actually over twelve million kuna because this is a VAT-free data, then the question is how will the competent ministry control users if and only violate public procurement procedures. Here, I took a little analysis of the procurement plan that the Ministry announced, so for the purchase in question in the first original procurement plan, it is said that five million and seventy-seven hundred forty-four thousand kuna, the open procedure within services. Then, during the first amendment, this item was deleted. So then there's a new item, it's getting an IT platform where, so from that 5.7 million already went to 9.8 million kuna. The third amendment to the procurement plan then deletes the open procedure and becomes a negotiation procedure without public publication. In the fourth change, another iteration on the topic, specifically this procurement itself gets the title, that platform then has the name PLUR. It's already directly bound to the micro group because their system software is called PLUR. And what is still happening in the public tender itself – it is not called for services, but the competition is for the purchase of goods although the purchase plan stands under the service. Here we see a whole series of shops where only the Ministry has repeatedly dealt with the procurement in question, where it has changed circumstances, terms, deleted one item in the same title as not to follow the following, put on, so there is a reasonable fact that it was going to be convenient, but here is the lucky one, and then the KING ICT, the company that considered it, not only them, but other companies that did similar software so that they could deliver a similar software that the Ministry is looking for. And that was accepted by the State Commission and annulled the procurement in question. After that excuse, actually justifying the Ministry of Regional Development, I say, it's not a problem, it's annulled, we need it, we're going to open procedure. That's why I wanted to list this whole iteration about the changes in the procurement plan where, from an open procedure to which we would call for technical characteristics defined by the Ministry, we would be preparing this software, we would also see the price achieved like this, at the end of the open procedure, we came to an open procedure that only one company microproject and development platform, because they share the same property, if they could report as a community to it. However, what I would have warned, if it weren't only a problem, because as a minister of the economy I was also in charge of public procurement and we had a lot of analysis of public procurement, when I looked at now only the public procurement of the Ministry of Regional Development, one item that you can all laityly notice is the issue of representation. A total of 2.3 million teams will be spent by the Ministry of Regional Development this year. And it'll all be spent through a bunch of great, simple purchases. It is distributed in 13 items where a specific item states that there will be more simple purchases. The basis, in fact, of the whole public procurement process is that there is no sharing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55586	Comrade Panenić, time is up. Thank you. We now move to another club of representatives, which is the Living Wall and the Power and Honored colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55587	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity to be in Velika Gorica, i.e. the town of Doće near Velika Gorica, the inhabitants of the region have a problem in the sense that the bridge that connects them with the rest of Turopolje through some channel that is owned, i.e. under the rule of Croatian waters, the old wooden bridge is no longer in operation. So people are let's say, cut off from the queen. And what's going on? It creates them, of course, they have to go a whole long way, etc. etc., and now that the state is the county, the town of Velika, what they should have done – they should have made a new bridge that is not wooden. Why? Because the wooden bridge by its nature will fall apart every once in a while and will have to work on a new one all the time. It's better to build a real, high-quality bridge. Unfortunately, this country, this county and the town of Velika Gorica, do not have in their plans to build that bridge and logically, that is, citizens must go round the road, waste their time, nerves, etc., needlessly. I think it's all a matter of priority, I think it could've been done to make a wish. I think this is a matter of political will, and when I look at what the state money is going to do, what everything is going to do with it, I think that this bridge should be a priority and that it would simply mean a lot to the citizens who live there. I believe that the responsibility of HDZ is the biggest because they manage both the state and the Croatian waters, and the City of Velika Gorica under which it belongs, and thus its construction is the result of the actual politics of the HDZ again. And now, what do you say next? What do you say next, ladies and gentlemen? I don't like it, people are in trouble, problems aren't solved. The same thing you did with Strabbag's asphalt base that poisons them there, and you also pushed it to build, and the same thing bothers people very much. Give me something you can do about it. People will be grateful to you, they'll be happier. This is how they'll be sad and unhappy. There you go. Thank you. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55588	Okay. Let's move on. The club of representatives is HSU's esteemed colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55589	What would you say to us in Turopoly: “God... that I have called." [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So counterpart Parnar obviously doesn't have all the information, so it should be said from the end, so it's true that the HDZ administration is guilty. But what's most important at this hour is two bridges in that same area. It's one that connects Bitch's area with the redfish with the settlement of Čička Poljana. You all know this village because of multiple catastrophic floods. And the second bridge is this Kučki bridge mentioned by colleague Pernar, also the wooden one that connects the settlement of Kuče through the cargo canal of Sava – Kupa or Odra, ultimately which is never finished, but only reached the Turopoljski Luga, which connects the settlement with the area in which Turopolje and Rakitovac are located. It's an extremely important bridge because it's a public transport-driving vehicle, so a bus that connects several settlements. The Javashake of local self-government is among other things that bought oaks of construction for the House Bridge three years ago and under the pretext of drying nothing is done for three years. And now, miraculously, a month ago, information was released that the City Administration of Velika Gorica and Croatia's water had agreed to build an armored-beton bridge. So, for three years, they've been pulling the noses of the citizens of that area, claiming that the building is drying up, and it's about to happen. I guess it blew a little bit. So now all of a sudden, there's a story about an armored concrete bridge. These two wooden bridges, about the one in the Chicago Pole, no one seems to even speak, and it is an integral part of the region of the Odre River and should also seriously adhere to its reconstruction, are actually part of the ambience value of Turopolje. Today building reinforced concrete bridges there is technologically advanced, but we also know that it is possible with new technologies to build quality wooden bridges that would remain part of this tradition and not impose a new concrete picture of the end, but would still fit into the environment. What is amazing is the indolence of Croatian waters all these years because of the construction of these bridges as well as the reconstruction of the so-called so-called so-called bridge. Siphon, as well as the recovery of the embankment, so if you want in the final and definition of the end of the Savo cargo channel – Odra are part of the overall efforts to avoid the catastrophic images that we saw in 2010 and 2012 in floods in that area that destroyed several hundred households. And it is amazing that even after years in which I have sought here in the Croatian Assembly of Ministers who have been responsible for the water business of the economy to come out with plans and reconstructions so-called. the constitutions in the Sub-Nearly, or in Strmac Samoborski, by preventing a large water wave from passing towards Zagreb and allowing it to be poured into the cargo canal. So nothing's been done yet. The threat of the City of Zagreb and the surroundings of Zagreb since the flood is as high as at that time, and it is extremely high because of the uncontrolled gravel in Sava where the trough is deepened and it is something that all administrations have been carrying on their soul as a crime in the last 15 years because no one is doing anything. It is high time to start quality projects and quality infrastructure operations on water installations and Karlovac, and the City of Zagreb and its surroundings, because we don't know if a new danger like those from 2010 and 2012 will occur tomorrow. The story of the Bitch Bridge is just one of them, but it shows how the citizens are wrong and how to buy one build for social money first, and now new works are being ordered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55590	Thank you. Let's move on. Now, a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, is working on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55591	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, you know that saying, "the wolf changes the hair but doesn't" so we can apply it to HDZs that change suits, presidents, but some habits remain unchanged. Corruption is a cancer of the early Croatian society. We hoped that some times had passed and that it would not be repeated, but here these days we also heard from fellow Panenic, that it seems without corruption, conflicts of interest of HDZ ministers cannot and do not know. Mrs. Gabriela Žalac gave a job worth ten million kuna without an open procurement procedure to her friend, the Split company Microproject. What's very interesting is that Minister Zhalac called on this particular gentleman to join the ministry's co-workers and agreed with him there on the conditions under which the competitions would be called. Well, dear colleagues and colleagues, do you think that's normal? Is that okay? Does it remind you of any other Lex Agrocores and arrangements with vulture funds that have received information about buying cheap and then selling expensively? So, corruption in Croatia unfortunately, the corrupt octopus again takes epic proportions. But what is most tragic is the whole story, and it raises the question of whether Ms. Gralac is capable at all, is running this ministry where each kuna is viewed under the increase of the European Commission and all the bodies of Olaf and others who are monitoring whether European money is being spent in a transparent manner. Because what did Mrs. Grief say? I continue to wonder if this is literally transmitted – because if it is passed on I think Mrs. Sadac must also join all those who are part of the government leaving. So, Mrs. Gralac said, I quote: “That amount of ten million kuna, I don’t think that this is of any great value in the context of what is at our disposal and what we need.” So, the ten million kuna she has assigned to her friend is no problem for her. And what happens when there are even fewer amounts? Therefore, we have an example of guessing friends, friends, and another piece of evidence of partnered association that seems to mark this government on its way out. I will remind you in 2015, thanks to the efforts of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, we have finally come out of a circle of corrupt countries, we had, we were 51st place which is believed not to be in the circle of corrupt people. However, already in 2016, thanks to former Oreshkovic, we came to 55th place which is a highly corrupt state and with fear of what kind of corruption perception index will be for 2017 for this year. Therefore, according to Rand, Croatia is among the most corrupt countries in Europe when it comes to public procurement, at the level of Bulgaria and Romania. Therefore, Mrs. Zalac and another partner contract, Mr. Bear with 519 cars where delivery time is 22 days, a typical example of setting up and another partner contract. Ninety percent of the payment of those contracts after a review at the manufacturer's warehouse! So where are my men? And to conclude with sugar, Mr Tolusic gave a million euros to the failed companies of Mr Lucic -- and another partner contract. Comrades and colleagues, it is time to move towards the departure of this government of partnered, corrupt contracts from this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55592	Just a little colleague of Martinchev-Juric's, we have a breach of the rules of procedure, the esteemed Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55593	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Jovanovic, you are a 238 member and you are obviously a representative of someone because you spread lies like everyone else, and you will soon understand that what you said today, you have told the truth. So please, don't use something you don't know because all those who instructed you are also people who are telling the truth. I'm asking you not to do that anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55594	Comrade Lucic, there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure so there is nothing I can do, but here is another violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55595	Mr. President Jandrokovic, I ask you to hold a meeting of the Club of Representatives and you, as chairman of this Assembly, teach them what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure and not to abuse that instrument.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55596	Comrade Jovanovic, I beg you, I beg you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55597	And then they make us hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55598	Now, I'm asking you if anyone is hurting the Rules of Procedure with that tablet, then that's what your MPs do. And I've been very correct and fair and I've never put too much emphasis on it. But not now, I didn't let my colleague Lucic and I said it wasn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure and don't do circus like this now. We're moving on. Dear Branko Juričev-Martinchev on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55599	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! It's fascinating to watch and listen as the parliamentary representatives so little know about the Public Procurement Act. I'm particularly surprised to you, colleague Panenić, who ran one of the municipalities. Do you know that the Public Procurement Act prescribes negotiation and law when it comes to intellectual property! Tell me, when you contracted or arranged a lawyer team to defend any proceedings or litigation of your municipality, did you call a public tender and choose the most favourable, or cheapest lawyer, what does the cheapest lawyer wear, and what can he bring you to the municipality? No, you were doing a negotiation procedure. When it comes to the fact that this team that Minister Zhalac was planning, she didn't sign the contract and give the job to the firm, because then there wouldn't even be a complaint, walked through the ministry, did these lawyers and your municipality have walked through your community for years, so you decided that it was a really reliable lawyer team, and that you're going to make a contract on the negotiating team for the next year? I'm sure you do. This is about intellectual property and it is about IT solutions that are protected in terms of the rules governing these rights and the basis of the Public Procurement Act. And that's why it went into negotiation. You have expressed your regrets and colleagues from the SDP Club and you from the Most Club, that Minister Žalac will manage several million-euro tenders in the coming period. It will. And for this very reason we know very well all of us who have worked on these projects such as controls, far greater and stronger than ours, without telling our journalists who have pulled something from the State Commission's public procurement control. What happened was the fact and the truth that the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure adopted a complaint by KING and adopted a decision to annul the negotiation process. But let's not show the public now that all that is a negotiating process, that all this crime is corrupt and so on. Minister Žalac is a minister who has made a lot of efforts over the past period. This way when we talk about mayors and sheriffs who are sheriffs, when we talk about ministers who are all corrupt criminals and what do we get in due course? I wouldn't recommend my child to do a job like that. I don't believe you after words like this in this assembly. If journalists write about it in such a way they can accept it, but the journalists have written and there is not long that we also read the titles of who is best man God Petrova whom MOST wants in Croatian water. God of Petrova from the street ruled the Croatian waters, the workers forced them to fake the Lečevica report. It seems that MOST changes the status of Croatian waters so that the godfather God Petrova could hire in the administration. What happened to the 5 million euros received by the University of Osijek? What's Jakovina doing? Well, we could all put together articles and articles and texts. ... I think this is ugly. [[You can't hear it.]] And at least we don't have to use this office. I'm begging you. Hence, a little respect for work [[Don't throw it away. Please don't! Don't throw it away.]] It is one of hundreds of complaints adopted by the State Commission, and therefore the ministry should act, and we do not need to talk about it right away. [[/Intruder President: Col. Panenić, please. Just a little Branka. Just a little bit, please. So you've said yours, and you've made unpleasant accusations, now let your colleague speak freely.]] We'll talk about the results. That the Ministry of Regional Development and the minister significantly speeded up the use of ESI funds that a tender worth 2 billion euros was announced during the first 9 months, and in 2015 and the sixteenth total was 2.8 billion euros. This resulted in 45% of the total allocations for 2014 and 20th and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u55600	Thank you. That's when we came to the end of the debate after the break. I would only ask you to call now for the next point of the Prime Minister and his associates. Can you work with me? Please. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Articles 132 to 139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line for asking questions is a respected colleague, Boris Milosevic. The question points to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56182	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, respected members of the Croatian Government or ministers and respected colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament. I am using this opportunity for the current morning to address the president of the Croatian government with a question concerning the completion of a low-voltage network in villages that still lack electricity. According to the data collected for this purpose, for the purpose of rebuilding the low voltage network, there are about 80 villages that do not have, therefore, electricity, in which people live in homes where they have returned, houses that have been renovated. So the state has invested in their return, in their restoration but they still don't have what I believe to be the fundamental assumption of civilized life. The SDSS club has repeatedly warned about solving this problem, but unfortunately since 2011, we have had a complete delay in resolving it. We believe that this is not about large funds, especially if we consider that, for example, HEP Group in 2016, so last year, it achieved over 2 billion net profits. That in the first six months of this year, net profits amounted to over a billion and 300 million kuna. So we think there's money to that end. The government has adopted a programme relating to national minorities and thus has formally committed to completing the job in this term. So my question is, when then, if we think we have the money, that formal assumptions are fulfillment and operationally going to solve that problem, so people get what they've been waiting for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56183	Thank you. I would now ask the Prime Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56184	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome all esteemed representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milosevic, this is indeed a topic that we discussed several times both at parliamentary majority meetings and at meetings of representatives of your party with representatives of the government, with the competent Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection, who on several occasions spoke with representatives of Croatia's electricity industry. It is true that war injuries largely damaged electricity systems, and some total damage was estimated at 2 billion 647 million kuna. The fact that HEP Operator of the distribution system in its plans and activities provides for financial resources that should be sufficient for all current electricity-free violence points to the conclusion that through the programme of a specific plan for national minorities that we have jointly agreed, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, during this mandate, we will address the issue that must be brought to our fellow citizens in those parts by that civilization minimum, which is all the necessary infrastructure which, in this particular case, relates to electricity, but in some other places and settlements where we have a water problem. Therefore, the government is fully committed to solving this issue together with you, and that in Croatia, when it comes to the availability of basic infrastructure, all citizens feel good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56185	Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56186	Dear Prime Minister, I am pleased with your response, but not entirely for the reason that we have not yet set foot in solving this problem, which we have not already set foot in this business. Recently I was in the village of Otisic in Split Dalmatian County, I visited the Borkovic family, which runs a small family farm, these people, unfortunately they don't have what we have, or, they don't have what we hold, that we actually take for granted, which is electricity. They are tortured daily in their business and I therefore believe that every day is too much, but I hope, as you said, that the Croatian government will be committed to solving this problem, so that the next session of the Croatian Parliament will have concrete results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56187	Thank you. We move on to the second question, dear colleague Davor Bernardic, the question also points to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56188	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of Croatia. I refer the question to Plenkovic, 6 months ago, Ivica Todorovic activated the lex Agrokor, the law you prepared for him. 6 months later he's in London, watching us from abroad and what's happening is that you've long avoided answering the question, who wrote lex Agrokor? Then it was your advisor, Vladimir Seks, who said that you were the author of this ambitious and grandiose law. In doing so, he said he helped you secure the parliamentary majority, as he slightly attracted the Vrdoljak, probably by a similar model, Saucha, the people who are now holding this parliamentary majority. But what's important is that he said that it was you who apostropheeded and wrote the law, and you later confirmed it. We then warned, suggested, suggested changes that could enable the recovery of the Croatian economy. As you know, in the processes we spent during our time, the former SDP government has managed to save over 30,000 jobs in settlements. Then you did not pay attention to this, but you wrote a bill overnight and enabled article 39 of the amendment, article 39, which was just defended here by Mr Branko Bačić, which allows the vulture's fund to enter the property of Agrokora, just the opposite of Croatian legislation. That's when I warned you about it. So the essence of the story is this, they bought for 30, they're not going to charge for 100 and they're still going to sign up for the property. The vultures will take the property, it's a de facto conclusion of your law, because they are thus my question to you very clearly, who will be responsible when Agrokor's companies are sold into invaluableness?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56189	Comrade Bernardic, your time is up, thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56190	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bernardic, I thank you for your question, and here I see that even after seven months, some basic elements concerning the Law on Extraordinary Administration are obviously not known to you or your party. So, first and foremost, possible bankruptcy and falling under bankruptcy legislation is a concern such as Agrokor, which employs 28,000 people in Croatia, then almost equal or even larger numbers in other countries, adjacent. A number of suppliers working in 150 000 would mean a real disaster for the Croatian economy. The government has shown under such circumstances when not only there has been a decline in ratings, indications of incorrect accounting, reduction of credit ratings, decline in stock values, blockades, suspensions by suppliers, delivery of everything but bread and milk in a few days before Easter. So the difference between the responsible authority, the one who cares about the general objectives and the one that politically approaches this topic, you have again reiterated that the government has passed a law for Mr. Ivica Todorovic. So I have to admit that I even have logical problems to understand what you're trying to say with regard to everything that's going on. The fact that you of this rhetoric in the meantime have become a spokesman for Mr. Todorovic, who has greatly promoted all his thesis benefits in public discourses such as high treason, this fellow Bernardic speaks much more about you, your party, your sense of responsibility for the Croatian financial system, the Croatian economy, interest, state bonds, the thinking of international financial institutions about what Croatia is, what its credit rating should be, its prospects. And in some ways you contribute to the creation of an image of a land that points to destabilisation. I'm sorry the SDP chose that path. You, in your performances, have now mentioned Mr. Shex, try somehow to jewelry in a bombic way of a variety of topics. I see you have doubts about the introduction of the euro, so it seems to me that you have evolved greatly from that SDP with which we have had a European consensus over the past decade. Well, then you're talking about some sort of reserve Brussels position. Well, then I suggest you send a request to the government immediately to call Neven Mimica. He was the vice-president of the SDP government, the man is currently in the European Commission, if you think that our colleagues working in European institutions are in a reserve position, then you get rid of him, we don't have to wait, we can do it right now. It's not usually done, we would never do it. But I'm trying to understand the direction that an opposition party is going to have a certain responsibility for a spoken word and for public life. And so it seems to me, Mr Bernardić, that all this stuff you're saying is trying to cover a very simple fact, which is that on your side they're not even small suppliers because they're all paid, everyone who has an annual income of 5 million kunas is paid. There is no business community on your side, big or medium suppliers because they are paid part of the old debt, which is satisfied with the border debt plan and that they participate in what is the settlement process. And everything that happens in the implementation of the law on extraordinary management is going on in agreement with creditors who are essentially company owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56191	Answer, here's my colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56192	What you said about Mimica is that maybe because you'd like to come to his place, that you have a spare address in Brussels? It may be because of that, but the situation is next. The story holds water until the comrades leave. You have burdened Agrokor with an additional billion euros in debt, that is the essence. The American scavenger fund bought bonds when no one bought them. He bought garbage because they knew they had a magic wand in their hands and that was Lex Agrokor. From the abracadabra when you have a lex Agrokor take the trash that no one wants and replace it for money and that's the whole point. At the same time, Plenkovic's commissioner, your Commissioner, Mr Ramljak, in his lawsuit against me that you allegedly ordered him to answer his salary but yesterday we learned this information. His salary is you know how much? 3 year salary of workers on minimum wage in Croatia. Three-year salary. We've proposed amendments to the Minimum Payment Act, you wouldn't accept. We suggested that the minimum wage in Croatia rise, you did not want to accept. We suggested that Croatia's salaries grow, you wouldn't accept. We discussed yesterday on the Committee on Labour and Pensions System the problem of moving young people to Croatia, not only was there no one, no one from the Government dared come or answer any questions. It just shows not only that you don't care but you don't care about the problem. And overnight, you managed to get a lex Agrokor. When you were supposed to write it 5 to 12 without any consultation with anyone, especially from the opposition's ranks because you knew what to do, you're doing a murky job. And that's what's worst in this whole story. The story started in the '90s by friends is now being completed by new friends.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56193	We move on to Question Three, Honored colleague Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, also points the question to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56194	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Plenkovic. Good afternoon. You often praise yourself that you have excellent economic results, that you have excellent results in reducing the unemployment rate, that you have achieved macroeconomic stability, that you are a factor in stability in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm going to return this wheel of history a year ago, so I'm going to remind you that somewhere a year ago, a little less truth and God, you've pompously announced the return of INA to Croatia, property, so that you've had some PR attempts to solve it through the initial public offering or the IPO shares of HEP even though it should change in that sense and the Water Act and do many, many changes of regulations in Croatia, so it was INA. Then, as president of the HDZ and Prime Minister, as many times in history, you simply misjudged state interventionism in Agrokor, in fact, created an induced dead man who was slowly dying. Furthermore, do you know what is similar to Latvia, Romania and Croatia that the only figures in Eurostat record employment rates, 0.8, 0.6%, or in Croatia are 12 thousand people less. So if we're looking at the right data, not HZMO data, so that's where it calculates the people who have the author's contracts. Furthermore, in your economy or in your economy, you have had pompous announcements that Croatia will be better, more competitive on a hot spot scale or a competition scale published by Doing to Business, so reduce its rating, that we will be better, more competitive, and we have grown from 43rd to 51st place. So my question to you, Mr. Plenkovic, are you an illusionist or Croatian Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56195	Answer the question of the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56196	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hajdas Doncic, here are the three points you mentioned earlier, just a few words about the country's overall macroeconomic indicators. I believe that you are also following what is announced by EUROSTAT and the State Statistics Institute that you are also a careful actor or perhaps an observer of the events that Croatia has come out of the excessive budget deficit procedure during this spring's term of office which, of course, was in the context of the European semester with us for the last few years. This is not an accident, it is due to a highly engaged, high-quality macroeconomic and fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You saw that the data showed even for the first 6 months of this year that we had the primary surplus, you saw that the budget deficit according to our estimates this year would be even better than it was last year. You have seen a trend in reducing public debt that goes twice as fast as in other countries. I don't suppose you missed the draft budget and projection for 2019 and 2020 where we'll go with public debt below 70% of GDP. I suppose you also didn't miss that this was the most successful tourist season in Croatia's history before the '90s and not just since the '90s. I suppose you also see that by our actions we try not only to have a development segment in focus but also a segment of social solidarity. It was mentioned today about what minimum wage is. I will remind you that last year we raised the minimum wage more than your government in the last three years together and we are already working on a new amount. As far as our INA activities are concerned, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environment and Energy have prepared a proposal to select appropriate advisers to help us process or purchase MOL shares in the INA or find a strategic partner. So this is done quietly, quietly, without pomp because such a topic requires such an approach. As for your adjudication to state interventionism in Agrokor, I quote what you said, and you are well aware that you used a similar formulation in your request to vote for mistrust to the government of the Republic of Croatia which you handed over last Thursday and to which we will give you an answer at the government session tomorrow. I must admit that in a rare document written in a strange Croatian language, I must say, it seemed to me as if someone hastily translated it from a foreign language into Croatian, take the time to read what you submitted to the Government, it seems to me that you represent the worst thesis that is just at the expense of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. So, unlike you, I'm going to remind the public that the law could be activated needed the request and consent of the owner and former management of the company. If it hadn't been for that, the law wouldn't have been activated. And Mr. Extraordinary Commissioner has been appointed by the Trade Court on a proposal from the Government. I ask you to take care of it because it seems that the basic elements have not yet been mastered within the framework of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56197	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56198	I'm sorry, so I'm glad that you like to do some research because it's from one of these medieval blue blood men, and I expect him to treat the opposition like this, but it's absolutely irrelevant now. So I'll just so I don't know, try to explain something to you, so that except for macroeconomic indicators in Croatia, so they're very, very susceptible, coordinated with the external environment. So you can't deny a favourable outdoor environment as regards low oil prices, cheaper borrowing, and I'll say some of the luck we have as a tourist country because of the instability in our competing countries that have brought us greater personal consumption. But I'll warn you that once you've touched the expenses and the expenses I've noticed you're touching, in the announcement of a new budget, it's very difficult to correct them. I can only ask the question, if you are one great apologist for the introduction of the euro, which I expect from you, how will you meet the criteria if you raise expenses, how will you reduce expenditure to reduce the total public debt? I'm not talking about the deficit here, so it's a paradox. It's a paradox. While you are announcing something that Croatia currently cannot achieve in the next 6 to 7 years, it is precisely because of your pumping costs to the strongest. And your story about stability, you know what it reminds me of? You know what stability is for me? Step ahead of progress. So, you're under progress with your story of stability. And that's why I just can't be satisfied with your soft answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56199	The fourth question, respected representative Damir Loncar, raises the issue to the minister of management Lovri Kustevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56200	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, respected ministers, fellow MPs. I'm asking the question of Mr. Kuštević, Minister of Management. All the time we're talking about digitisation, it's known that we have an E-Citizen system but according to information and information from citizens from the field, it's still on certain counters that refuse to receive the printing of certificates from that system. So I ask you Ministers when we can expect concrete services that users do not write the certificates themselves and do not wear them to the counters themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56201	Minister of Management's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56202	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, ministers and ministers. Mr. Representative, here I share your dissatisfaction with the current situation regarding the digital society in the Republic of Croatia. But I'd say it was a result of working or not working for someone who had before us had a responsibility for it. As far as these governments are concerned, our views and our goals are clearly expressed, and this is the digitisation of society, especially the digitisation of public administration. Here is the digitization of the public administration in the domain of the Ministry of Administration, which I am in charge of, and I can show here that you yourself have mentioned the system of e-citizens in office, which today has over 40 functions, thanks to which our fellow citizens can get a certain necessary document in their chair without visiting more counters, offices, not to end up waiting in traffic jams and not paying taxes. Yes, I have received information that there are cases that certain civil servants may even give thanks to God rarely, and these are exceptions, and they do not recognise the documents as a credible correction. And that is why it is good for this question of yours, this debate and the message not only to the parliamentary representatives, but to the entire Croatian public and to all officials that the documents of the system of e-Citizens are public documents and that public services are obliged to receive and take them into processing and bring a certain solution based on them. But that's not all. The government of the Republic of Croatia has also launched a CDU project – a centre of shared services thanks to which we will invest 305 million kunas in the next three years, with 85% of which are co-financed with EU funds, where we will unite all, so that in the end, all state bodies so that our citizens will not even have to print, extract, extract or go to their offices where necessary, where all institutions will be tied up and the official will have to extract that document from the system and provide a service to the citizen. However, since 1.10 this year, all public services are required to make their own insight into these documents rather than asking citizens to bring these documents themselves. So here's one more time I'm repeating to our fellow citizens that they're using that right. And not only our fellow citizens, but all of you mayors, mayors, mayors, to ask the Ministry of Administration to access these queens so that you can allow our fellow citizens to get the necessary document on the spot in the office, not to have it printed and carried with them. That's not all. This government is going to make big moves next year. I can announce e-business that will last also three years, I can announce an e-tag, e-print, e-tax. Here's an e-born child will already be in full function in January next year where our fellow citizens will also not have to visit offices to report their newborn child to the Croatian Health Insurance Office, with the matrimonials to report the name, etc. He'll be able to do anything by his account from home. Here's the government of the Republic of Croatia working actively on digitising the public administration. The big projects are ahead of us. We have great successes, and I expect that very soon the Republic of Croatia will side by side with all developed European countries in terms of digitisation, as is the case with the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56203	Thank you. Here's a colleague of the Lonchars. Okay. We're moving on to the fifth question of dear colleague Vladimir Bilek. The question is asked by the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection, respected Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56204	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister of Croatia, respected ministers. My question will be to Mr. Minister Ćorić today on the current clock, and it is essentially a direct question whether it is possible to revise the project of agglomeration Daruvar. In fact, the leadership of the town of Daruvar and all its citizens are very interested in continuing the agglomeration project. The project should build a new wastewater purifier, but also reconstruct the current water and sewerage system in the area of the city, which is extremely important for the citizens of the town of Daruvar because the water pipes in the city are from asbestos, and unfortunately we have a very high percentage of cancer patients from the Daruvar area. The basic parameters for this project were set 8 years ago. Unfortunately, there have been serious extraordinary circumstances in the wider area of the city in that time. First of all, the reduction in the number of inhabitants over the last few years is more than 25% for the further trend of decline, which is also the written material, and when the project was done, it was a tendency for the population to grow. A civil suit has also been filed against the proposed location, and there is no possibility in the over-indebted city budget of providing funds for its own share to the value of a project that is cost-effective 200 million kuna. Based on these reasons that we consider justified requires justified by us prolongation of the deadline and revision of the project, so please answer the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56205	Here you go, Minister. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So esteemed representative Bilek, as you yourself have said the value of this project of over 200 million kuna, 200.5 million kuna indeed primarily with value but also with the scope of the works is important for the Daruvar region. The owner of this project is a municipal company that is owned by a hundred percent of the city of Daruvar and, in fact, the town of Daruvar, based on its decisions, is also the bearer of further activities on this project. What definitely reduces the maneuvering space on this project and potential changes both the location, technology or any aspect of this project is the fact that at this moment as far as we know in the ministry are actually done, all the assumptions for EU co-financing, i.e. to report a EU co-financing form. In the context of total costs, we speak, so over 63% co-financed by the European Cohesion Fund. The rest at national level is 6% if I'm not wrong about the town of Daruvar. It's a scenario that's from a perspective... A positive assessment, however, of the circumstances that you state here, is actually opening up another perspective of looking at this project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, at this point it is possible to go in another direction, however, that second direction definitely means changing the documentation, as you yourself know, therefore, changing the location as such, potential or also changing technical conditions require changes to all the documents that stand in the basis and realization of this project. Thus, the question arises, is it possible to finance this project A, to complete B by the end, i.e. by October 2023, when the deadline for completion is, in fact, the completion of the current financial envelope, i.e., envelopes from the European Cohesion Fund of the Operational Competitiveness and Cohesion Programme. The decision is therefore in the town of Daruvar, i.e. the company Darkcom, which is actually the holder of this investment, but on the other hand, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Croatian Water, which in the context of co-financing of this project was still available at the end of the city of Daruvar, are there for any further talks. If these changes you're talking about were to happen, then indeed, the deadlines are very short. The paperwork part, as you know, lasts up to 2.5 years. So the realisation of the project itself should be very expedient. We ask the city of Daruvar, first of all also Darkcom, to reconsider all the circumstances that are here. Consideration should be given, however, I am also at my disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56207	Here's your colleague, Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56208	Dear Mr. Minister, thank you, for this response and thank you for your involvement in the possibilities you said you would be able to speak to the representatives... as one guarantee agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In view of this, our biggest problem, we know that there must be an application by 31.12 this year, given the size of the project as signed. But given these circumstances, if in the list that was valid, there were 13240 residents, and we currently have 9600, which is true, 28% reduction, we believe that these are the circumstances that would and... could accept it, as it states the size of the purifier which will be both in fact and in all these agglomerations which will be a great burden on the reduction of the number of inhabitants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's not say the obligation is 80% of the connection, after the project is completed. And we currently have 72% of the population in the area, which is a question, can it then be executed. I thank you and hope that together we will find a way out and a solution to this problem that the city of Daruvar and citizens of the town of Daruvar solve problems and water and draining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56209	Thank you. We're moving on to question number six. Dear counterpart Bores Miletic, the question raises the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56210	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would ask the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, to answer my question, why has the Croatian government decided to tolerate fascist and Ustasha values in our society? With our proposal to supplement the Penal Code which would severely punish the propagation of the Nazi, fascist and Ustasha regime, we have opened up space for you to position yourself as a modern, pro-European government and to do what other European countries have done long ago. Instead, I believe that you have made one precedent and sent a very clear political message, that you will tolerate values that are propagated by the Ustasha regime, hatred, terror and not tolerance towards all those who are different. If someone needs to be reminded, it is a regime that introduced racial laws, the foundation of which executed tens of thousands of Jews, Roma, Serbs and members of other nationalities. Several thousand children were killed in the Jasenovac camp alone. We're talking about a regime that has adopted Nazi legislation and implemented a policy of brutal racial and national intolerance, based on which thousands of people have been taken to camps and killed in a man's way. We're talking about the regime that sold parts to Croatia to Italy. Because of all this, the condemnation of the constitution is not a political issue, but a civilization issue. The whole democratic world has clearly said that Nazism, fascism, and thus the uprising are the greatest evil of the 20th century. Why do you refuse to do that? We are a young democracy, we have no level of political and civil culture, and that is why institutions have the responsibility to educate the public and send clear and unequivocal messages concerning key values in society. Why doesn't your government do that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56211	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56212	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Miletic, I appreciate the proposal you made a few weeks ago. The government was obvious to him, not for reasons not to, once again, if you want and here I will condemn the Ustasha regime and all the negative consequences it has brought for the Croatian state, for the numerous victims of the regime and the most terrible crimes that were committed in its time. What we are doing, and you are very aware, is that through the Council to deal with the consequences of the rule of non-democratic regimes, which has intensified our work, we are doing not only to strengthen the culture of memory, which needs to help society, to strengthen the culture of reconciliation. Reconciliation in Croatian society. But it is from a council in which both lawyers and politologists and historians, based on comparative analysis, that the document, which refers to similar legal solutions in other countries on page 60, is recommended, we are talking about recommendations, in order to possibly improve the legislative framework that currently exists in the Republic, and here I am primarily referring to the relevant articles of the Penal Code, as we have in our opinion, which we have told you. So we'll keep in mind your suggestions, but what we want, we want to solve this issue in a whole way. And I'd appreciate it if you didn't tell me personally as Prime Minister or this government not to determine the crimes of the Ustasha regime. That would be correct and fair. Your contribution is welcome and it will come to the agenda when we consider the whole of this process to be mature and then come before the Croatian Parliament and ask for support from both you and other representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56213	Here's a colleague of Miletic's, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56214	So I believe that by your decision you have de facto introduced one normalization of this regime into our public space. If that's what you say to Mr. Prime Minister, then I ask myself why you haven't completely removed the issue board "For Home Ready". I believe you're being denied your actions right now. Let me repeat that the role of institutions is to send clear, unequivocal and determined messages concerning key values in society. And I don't want you to hide behind that committee, enough to look up to your sister parties in Germany who are very clear, very clear, efficient, efficient and quick to solve it. Moreover, unlike them, they made it clear what evil is evil and should not be in our society. And I believe that although you've all verbally said that in your actions, you don't want to make yourself clear about what the whole world has condemned. Fortunately, I believe in the prudence and responsibility of the MPs in this esteemed Parliament. I am sure that this bill will be voted by all MPs who believe in the values of a free, anti-fascist Europe including, of course, your coalition partners, HNS representatives and national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56215	We're moving on to question number one. The 7th Honored counterpart Branko Hrg raises the question of Minister of Labour and Pension System Marija Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56216	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Vice President, all the ministers. My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Pensions System, Mr Pavic, and it is related to the Republic Union of Workers of Croatia. The newly elected leader of the union asked me to ask the minister a question. The Ministry therefore refuses to adopt a solution on the change of authorised persons by virtue of the legitimate decision of the Republic of Union body, arguing that there is a dispute between the old and the new leadership because the removed persons oppose their shift. The ministry made a decision to suspend the proceedings by taking the view that it was not authorised to decide on internal trade union matters or to interpret the trade union statute and decided to wait for a decision by the municipal court in a procedure initiated by a party which was removed by a legitimate decision of the trade union. The municipal court in Zagreb has adopted a solution stressing not the competent ones and, in its explanation, states that the founding and registration of the unions is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. My question is when will the ministry decide to register changes in the data of the Republic Union of Workers of Croatia and the Register of Associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56217	Thank you. I'm asking the minister to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56218	Dear Representative Hrg, the Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, MPs, colleagues and fellow ministers. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very The Ministry of Labour and Pension System runs a register of workers' associations, i.e. unions containing over 600 trade unions. We're just running that register like that. The story of the Republic of Croatia's Workers' Union is unfortunately a daily story in the Republic of Croatia where the parties leading the union have divided and are suing each other and file criminal charges with each other. In 2016, when we looked at the register of union leadership associations consisting of 3 persons called together different congregations and each of the two currents submitted 5 different requests for registration in change and persons for authorisation and seats and addition and amendments to the statutes. As such, the ministry is not competent to arbitration among the internal issues of the union which one of them is right. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The General Administrative Procedure Act has been suspended until the court has cleared up who's right. You have rightly said that the municipal court has declared itself incompetent and it will go to the administrative court and the Ministry of Labour will only run the registry itself and so I say it is not quantifiable to discuss which assembly or which electricity within the Republic Union had a valid and legal assembly. In order to answer your question, the registration of workers, i.e. the union, will be carried out after a decision of power, and just any, if there are doubts of any criminal application or violation of the law, shall be carried out by the responsible authorities, the other responsible authorities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56219	Thank you. Here's your representative's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56220	I don't think the people in the union will be happy with this answer. And I'll just read here, I'm not a lawyer, so I don't understand much about it, but the argument of the municipal court in Zagreb about who can take legal actions concerning the registration of changes in the register of associations or who is actively legitimate for the taking of such legal actions decides on the administrative procedure of the competent administrative authority, which is, in particular, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system in whose register the prosecutor is registered. So says the municipal court, which has declared itself incompetent. Here's the Honorable Minister, I ask you to give your services a warrant to review this matter again and see if you speed up this process because if this procedure goes from one court to another court, we know how quickly we're dealing with cases in the judiciary, it'll take who knows when. There's a few people who can't even get paid for these reasons because registered signatories and each other quit all the time. Here I think it would be good once again because, as a layman in this work, it's definitely not quite clear, the lawyers say one thing differently, the others say differently, they outsmart, but I think it all deserves to be considered thoroughly and well again and see the possibility of a possible solution to this dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56221	We move on to the issue, respected representative Ljubica Maksimchuk asks again the question of Minister of Environment and Energy Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56222	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Minister and Minister, I would like to direct my sweat to Minister Tomislav Coric. Dear Ministers, citizens of Slavonski Brod have been breathing the worst air in the Republic of Croatia for years. They listened to the great promises of former ministers but things didn't move out of place. What has been done during your term of office to reduce air pollution in Slavonski Brod? Any reason for optimism that after years of mistrust with state institutions has appeared in my town of Slavonski Brod back in the last month?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56223	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear deputies of Maksimčuk, as you yourself have said, the agony of the citizens of Slavonski Brod and Slavonsko-ship County has been going on since 2008. So from the moment of production in the refinery of the Air Quality Ship, especially the high amount of sulfur in the air during the period and according to the 2008 to today measurements, she called for action, unfortunately over the years not much has been achieved on this issue. However, as of 31 October this year, in our opinion, a very important step has been taken to address the problem faced with the citizens of Slavonski- Brod County. So on 31.10., a protocol was signed on cooperation on the gasification of the ship refinery between the Ministry of Energy and the environment of the Republic of Serbia's Energy Mining. This protocol, which primarily as an international act in itself, is not legally binding, is the basis for cooperation that will take place on the gasification of the ship's refinery. What should be pointed out is the fact that the signing of this Protocol took place after months of contact, or the engagement of both parties. On the one hand, I would like to point out here and thank you for the support and the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. So, the signing of this protocol has opened the way for the gasification of one of the ship's refinery entities by Crodux. What should be pointed out is the fact that the interest of the Republic of Croatia in this particular case is a solution to the problem of air pollution in the area of Slavonsko- Brod County. We hope that the dynamics that will be determined by the legal persons involved in this process will be satisfactory and we hope that in the next year and a half, there will be a gasification of the ship's refinery and that the citizens of Slavonski Brod will breathe much, much cleaner air after this process is in itself over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56225	Thank you. Mr. Maximchuk, there you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56226	Thank you very much. Well, honourable ministers, here on behalf of all citizens of Slavonski Brod, I thank you and give you as soon as possible to the citizens of Slavonski Brod inhale just as clean air as the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56227	Okay. We move on to the next question, respected representative Sabina Glasovac is asking the Minister of Science and Education to the respected Blaženko Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, since the acquisition of the Ministry of Science and Education, we have heard many beautiful announcements from you that I agree with, and that is that you will continue to implement the curricula reform. In these six months, unfortunately, all the documents Jokic's group worked on are still likely to collect dust somewhere in the ministry. Meanwhile, we see that giving up on health and civic education, the president, receiving the Vatican State Secretary, says the Church plays an extremely important role in educational reform. When we look at the budget of the Republic of Croatia or the draft budget for 2018, we also see that there is not much investment in our schools, in our teachers and teachers but there is something else. Twenty-six million kunas you intend to spend to get you computers. My question is to you. It is my impression that the only flower in the government is employment in ministries and public procurement. My question to you is, are you in the government, as a minister under some kind of pressure to insist in your mandate on the purchases of information equipment and on purchases specifically in this computer case? We've seen that fighter aircraft are being purchased, that they're getting armored cars, that Minister Žalac is not even able to carry out public procurement, but he's falsified, so I'm interested in what's actually going on in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and are you here now as a minister who is also one of the most significant items that is increasing the purchase of computers, are you under pressure, do you have any indication that you have to insist on public procurement in your ministries? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56229	I'm asking the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56230	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm under no pressure to get any equipment but I'm under a lot of pressure to do whatever we promised to do with the curricula reform and other tasks. In that sense, I am under pressure. We must bring our schools into the 21st century, and this respected lady MPs, among other things, means that we must develop digital competences among our students. We cannot develop these digital competences by using only pen and paper. We need to get the equipment. In this sense, we have this year provided a rebalancing of 10 million kunas that will be deployed to the first 180 schools that have no equipment at all and where the equipment has not been purchased in the last five years and schools will receive funds, around 60,000 kunas per school to obtain laptops that will serve both mandatory IT and other ICT items and uses in other cases. I think it's certainly commendable, and in that sense, of course, the equipment must be obtained, because otherwise schools are not equipped. Second of all, as far as the curricula reform is concerned, I have some good news to say. So expert working groups work on documents, respond to comments from the public debate, and here's the latest data from 51 documents to 44 documents is answered for public debate, they are arranged. For example, you can look at the answers to the public debate and documents from the Curiculum of Informatics published. We will also publish other documents, translate documents into English, send them to an international review. In some cases, of course, such as Croatian and history, apart from international reviews, we will also seek and look for the expertise of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in order to adequately address national topics. And I assure you that we are really doing everything in our best faith and that we include all those who want to help us well, so I also call and invite you to join us in this regard. As regards cross-cutting topics, they are also part of the curricula to which they have been answered and which are in this public debate, if they have received comments on them, so now the response procedure is ongoing and will be published. There is no indication so far that these cross-cutting topics would not have entered any further, any further procedure. Of course, in the amendments and additions that are now in the public debate, the Law on Education and Education is foreseen, so other than accepting curricula documents, which I hope you welcome. It is also foreseen that if there are some inter-entity topics that the Agency finds to have a character highly colored in terms of choice of behaviour that such a topic can be declared an election topic by the Agency. And in that sense, I think it's important. This corresponds, of course, to the observations of the Constitutional Court and is given to parents if such topics exist. As I said so far, there are no indications that such topics would exist, but allowed, means if there are parents who have the right to choose. I believe that by the end of this year, we will have received international reviews, and that after that we will be ready to invite schools to join the pilot project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56231	Thank you. Here's your answer, comrade Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56232	Thank you, Madam Minister, I agree with you that we must introduce the Croatian education system into the 21st century not only in the education system but also in Croatia. However, in the 21st century and in modern democracies, it is actually investing in people, not computers, in combat planes, in official armored vehicles. They realize, modern countries realize that investing in people is the key, in programs not in computers. In the modern state, the Law on Breeding and Education cannot happen to you. The most important law group is led by a leading man. The head of this group is the Oak Man. In the modern state, it cannot happen to bid and give up civic and health care in order to buy one vote in parliament so that the government will survive on Friday. So you don't bid and you don't sell education today, quality education today for one vote in the Parliament tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. In the modern state of the 21st century, the prime minister of parliament does not force a culture minister who has nothing to do with the resort, who has completely retrograde views and in the modern state do not falsify public procurement as Mrs. Minister Gabriela Zalac does. So all of these stories are beautiful, but all of what this government does is actually deny these stories and shows a very ugly picture of Croatia far from the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56233	We are moving on to question number 10, dear colleague Željko Lackovic. The question is asked by Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56234	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the Prime Minister and all members of the government. So my question goes to Mr. Maric, Minister of Finance, and it concerns the 2018 budget projections, or the question of whether, in view of May developments, the European Commission has made a proposal to the EU Council to get Croatia out of the excessive excessive deficit process, there is finally the freedom to make available to those five percent of the mining rent, which of the total ten percent goes directly to the state budget. So, three percent is the income of local self-government units, two percent of the county, and five percent is now the central budget. Whenever all of these poor municipalities, located in Podravina, Moslavina and Slavonia, were looking for changes within the distribution of these 10% response, it was an income that we should not now touch because it was listed as one of the criteria that would reduce our deficit. So the Croatian budget is no longer in the deficit we have one period, a new situation. We have an old situation so we can't increase the amount of rent we've committed to keeping with the contract when it's sold to the INA MOL. And my question to you is whether, therefore, there is a financial possibility for these 5% to be transferred to where it should belong, so to the local community and especially in the context of this big announced project by the Government of Slavonia, because it is precisely all the municipalities that are from Eastern Slavonia, Podravina and Moslavina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56235	I'm asking Minister Maric for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56236	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, I thank you very much for asking. So, as you yourself have apostrophe, the problem of ore rent, i.e., compensation in terms of the Mining Act, as well as in terms of the Law on the Research and Explantation of Hydrocarbons regulated by that law, i.e., by the Government regulation which provides for the case of the Mining Law to distribute these charges, 50% of the total variable part, i.e. in terms of hydrocarbons of the total 10% goes to the state budget, 30% to local self-government units, 20% to regional administration units, therefore, to counties. It's a legal framework that's in effect as such. I don't normally get into much of the problem of other resistors. Others are the resolutions in charge of these two concrete laws, but you can expect the Ministry of Finance, I am safe and resolute, i.e. the entire government will be open, dialogue. Further reflection on the problem of the distribution of these compensations between the state or central budget, units of the area, i.e. regional self-government. That in some way, I show and prove, not just the words I'm telling you right now, but they're actually works. I will repeat that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance in the Croatian Parliament, has sent a package of tax reform laws. You remember for yourself, therefore, the reduction of income tax burdens, which was in some way directly related to the unit's budget on local regional self-government. The government compensated from the state budget during 2017 directly, and was prepared during this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted it in its first reading. We will go to second reading, for 2018 we will have a situation to completely redistribute income from income tax, i.e. to units of local, regional, regional self-government. I think that, in this way, we are very clearly not only declarative, but very essentially through the work, we have sent and shown in some way that we are looking at the problem of the budget of local self-government from the perspective of this new law that this will mean strengthening their original budgets, which will mean that they have much stronger capacity for mayors, the mayors who are responsible for managing their budgets. It means much higher capacity for projects, if you want and co-financed by European funds, but generally healthy and good projects that will enable better and stronger economic development of individual areas. And within the framework of the law itself, we have foreseen, of course, that balancing fund which will mean 17% of the total amount that goes exactly by the criteria of distribution towards economically less developed regions of the Republic of Croatia from the perspective of fiscal capacity per capita. Which, most of all, I would say, is also referring to the parts that you mentioned, the Slavonia project, as it is also recognized in this law. Not only will Slavonian counties, cities and municipalities profit from it, they will profit from numerous other counties, cities and municipalities throughout the Republic of Croatia, as the net effect of the law is about a billion and 400 million kuna from the state budget according to the budgets of units of local and regional self-government. Once again, we think it's a safe step, which local self-government will be able to use in an adequate way. And as for this issue, surely we remain open, for further talks, and we can also think in this direction about some adjustments as well. However, what I must, in short lines, say at the end of my presentation, with this element of fiscal decentralisation, the Ministry of Finance strongly advocates, of course redefinition, that is, discussion and discussions on functional decentralisation, that we are simply conducting these two processes in parallel with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56237	Comrade Lackovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56238	Thank you. The esteemed ministers, therefore, have, in part, answered the question of income tax. This was my focus, although it wasn't your portfolio, and as far as the rent rights are concerned, I didn't deliberately ask the economy minister a question, because she would look at you. So, can we touch those resources? You said you were open to conversations and we're gonna run those conversations. Many local self-governments are gathering. I'm telling you this for a reason, because you shouldn't worry about these local self-governments at all, because the emergence of oil and gas wealth. You have these Arab states that were hungry for bread, and today they are the richest countries in the world. I'll tell you about the situation, let's say a little oil field in the Podravina... Celebrating 50 years of oil extraction, marked 10 million barrels of oil drawn at an average price of $50, that's $500 million to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the past, no mining rent was paid at all, but state-owned companies were responsible for the communities where they were draining. Today, this socially responsible influence of our national oil company is small, minor and irrelevant. And that's why we think, it's manufacturing, it's going to be about 10 more years, and that's why we think it's necessary, that the state, just to keep economic activity, when these mineral treasures are exhausted, makes that shift and releases the necessary resources. I'm not going to tell you that we were supposed to be Kuwait, but I'm going to tell you, let's just say, in the area of the city of Djurjevac in seven days, there were five fatalities in traffic that were in transit. We do not have a highway to Koprivnica, we have only now, the next period since 2020 for which we must prepare ourselves with business planning documentation project documentation, so let your ministry be what and means the necessary funds for both the Ministry of Transport and the links and the support of the bridge to develop the project... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56239	Thank you. The 11th question, Honorable Representative Damir Mateljan. The question is raised by Minister of Agriculture Tomislav Tolusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56240	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here we are again on the same subject, Mr. Minister. Local self-government units, municipalities and cities are often referred to both by the public and by this government as not having enough quality projects for European funds, which is considered to be one of the reasons for the small withdrawal of funds from the EU. Despite the sub-capacitation, however, despite the sub-capitality of both financial and human resources, local self-government units and cities have prepared hundreds of projects in terms of rural development between 2014 and 2020, a scale of 2.3 billion euros. Local self-government used its own resources to prepare these projects, it was in debt. In anticipation of the rapid evaluation and realization of these projects. The municipalities and cities planned these funds in their budgets for this year and in agreement with financial institutions, i.e. business banks and other ways tried to provide funds both for pre-financing and for their own participation. However, it has been exactly one year since a tender for 722 construction of unclassified roads was opened and closed. To day the municipalities and cities have no idea what their projects are in. It's the same thing with operation 741 that has a little broad name and actually comes down to construction, childcare garden adaptation. The competition was opened in May and closed in May this year. Equally, municipalities and cities do not know what their projects are in. So my question, Mr. Minister, is when will we finally find out when the evaluation of these projects will be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56241	I'm asking Minister Tolusic for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56242	Thank you, Mr. Matjan, for asking. I unfortunately must say you're right actually when we talk about the slowness of the administration in solving projects especially in the rural development programme. And for that reason we just changed the procedure and the first results of these modified procedures you saw in the competition of measure 4 that we ended in 7 months and the first decisions went out, so we ended up 17.7., the first decisions went out 30.08. means 43 days. The 722 tender means for unclassified roads, for 741, means for this part of the municipal social infrastructure as well as competitions under measure 63, i.e. 61 small and young farmers are competitions which have been opened under the old procedures that have been extremely complicated for processing within houses and within the ministry, i.e. the paying agency. And unfortunately... We're still in pain, but we'll get rid of it soon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about measure 722, the first decisions go out or at the end of this week or early next week so that we have absorbed that part and measures 741 I hope at the end of this year or the beginning of next year. What I can promise you, new tenders for measure 722 or for water lines or for 741 or new measures in the six when they are discussed are going according to new procedures and deadlines from the day of closing the tender to the contract will be maximum 120 days which you can see through measure 4 which I say exactly that way. Otherwise, when we talk about the rural development programme, despite the bad start in 2014/2015. Today, out of that 2.4 billion euros, we have opened tenders for nearly 50% of the amount, it means 1.1 billion euros, we have agreed about 30% of the total amount, and we have already paid close to 20% of that amount, with new procedures, with faster, faster processing of the projects and applications themselves, and I expect that we will spend the rest of the 1.3 billion euros not until 2020, but I hope, much earlier, perhaps by the end of 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56243	Please pleasure or dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56244	Pleasure. Well, if by some miracle the evaluation was over yesterday or six months ago, it would have been too late. And unfortunately, it seems to me that this government is much simpler, or much faster, making those decisions, those laws that are not very essential to local self-government like the law that will probably be in the late hours tomorrow because the government of this law is ashamed and that is so-called. lex Agrokor to go to this government, which is a law that excludes the participation of citizens instead of making decisions that are essential to local self-government in time so that local self-government can actually benefit from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56245	Let's move on, coming up with a respected counterpart, Miro Kovac, who is asked by Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign and European Minister Marija Pejcinovic-Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56246	I would like to thank Mr. President for the opportunity to ask Mrs. Vice President and the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs a question. At the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament, we adopted the National Development Cooperation Strategy on 27 October. I also want to know how the Minister thinks that the implementation of this national strategy will be effectively integrated into a coherent foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56247	I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56248	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, I think the good question is that Croatia is a development policy, in fact a new policy that is in the right sense a word in force only for the last year. Croatia has, in the right sense, become only a country donor since 2011. From then on to this new strategy we have actually tried to define which priorities are sectoral, geographical but also how Croatia can be recognizable and precisely this issue of yours most relevant how this development policy can best fit and be in synergy with Croatian foreign policy. In fact, with this strategic document fully in view of the consultations carried out with a very wide range of stakeholders in this area, it becomes in the right sense a new, important segment of Croatian foreign policy. That they are completely complementary shows the fact that you look at geographical priorities. So our first geographical priority of this policy is Southeast Europe and within that, BiH as the main programme country. So it is clear that we are trying to help develop and European in the perspective of our neighbourhood, but certainly also security and prosperity in our environment, which is certainly one of the primary objectives of the Croatian state. As far as other priorities are concerned, there are eastern and southern neighborhoods within which we have two important programming countries again. In the eastern neighbourhood of Ukraine, in the southern neighborhood it's Jordan. I don't think we should talk about Ukraine as much as it is like a country that's positioned where it's exactly in the part where it's both energy and other ways of security. On the other hand, Croatia has and here I come to what is very specific and important for Croatian development policy. We as a new donor and a country that has a very specific experience of receiving development aid, i.e. cooperation very well know what to do, how to do, and we have one specific thread. And that's exactly what countries like Ukraine and Colombia are all about, and that's our third geographical area that we're covering can help in exactly the best possible way. When it comes to Colombia, let's say we're helping develop through the Columbia Fund, but also directly in a way that we want our companies that have experience in this area and our experts to go to these areas. I would say very briefly that we expect direct benefits for Croatia? So I'm sure it'll help export any services, any goods. It certainly positions Croatia on an international stage in a more quality way, giving new opportunities for greater interest beyond our usual I would say achievement. For example, they show these countries with which we traditionally do not have developed relations for some countries, and they can mention this except Colombia certainly Tanzania and some other countries in Africa. So this can be the first step in developing broader economic and political relations. In this context, I think that this is exactly the way to position international development aid in relation to foreign policy is very useful. And more for the end. So there is this bilateral element of development cooperation, but very important through this Croatia participates fully in the development policy of the EU as well. Let us not forget that the EU is the largest donor in the world and Croatia, and through this multilateral wing it helps to position itself in international relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56249	Thank you. Comrade Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56250	Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for your response to Madam Vice President and Foreign Minister. It seems important to me that all of these good things that Croatia has done, which Croatia has done, we really place in the Croatian public space, to be much more aggressive when we talk about what we have done and what we do when we talk about development aid. That's not enough yet I think present enough in public opinion. Another thing, our expectation, my expectation is that the real money we spend, so the money of our taxpayers should go where Croatia really benefits from it and not participate in what some call the development aid industry. There's a British Nobel laureate, I don't think Scots, is an Englishman, who won the Nobel Prize, that we don't spend money on things that are useless under quotes, to concentrate on those things that are important to people who are in trouble and for economic growth, for sustainable development. For example, in BiH, we can invest in a way that helps economic recovery. There are companies there that are successful, especially in areas where Croats are dominant, where there are most of them, to help them to come back to life. Because where there are people, we see it in Croatia, there will be and, where there are economies, there are pardons and people and they will always live there. So we don't spend money on things that are useless, let's not participate in the development aid industry and look for our money targetedly and wisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56251	Thank you. Let's go to question with regular number 13. Dear Representative Bozo Petrov. The question raises to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56252	Dear Mr Plenkovic, the Croatian public should know what your position as Prime Minister and other government representatives is, as well as Croatian INA members around the Sisak Refinery is. Is he the same as the representatives of the INA Management Board or the Hungarian members and the Hungarian Government? I think everyone could read in the media that today's leader of the battle for the survival of the Sisak refinery, Union leader Predrag Sekulic, is resigning because of his union action, because he wants the Sisak refinery to continue its work. I would only ask you to state your position and what do you intend to do to protect this man? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56253	I'm asking the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56254	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov, for keeping us in the logic of reciprocity. As far as the Croatian government's position on the refinery Sisak is concerned, it has been unchanged, even since the time you were in the ruling coalition, which is that we want Rafineria Sisak to work and produce as long as possible. A colleague of Dobrović, who was in charge of this, knows very well all the conversations that took place. And as for this particular issue involving one of the union employees and leaders, it seems to me to be one of the MOST candidates in the local elections, which is the information I received from the media. And besides, I have nothing else to do, and I'm going to ask my colleague, Coric, as competent minister, to do a thorough reconnaissance on what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56255	Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56256	Mr. Plenkovic, I could make the same joke as you and say it was supposed to be HDZ's candidate so you could protect him, because this wasn't a political game. This issue was not a political game, because I think clear measures and decisions should be taken, and not, unfortunately, empty demagogue, diplomatic stories. I'd just ask you not to give us fake Christmas presents. Finally make an honest decision, Croatia is or is not for the INA to be redeemed, to move INA into Croatian hands. ... And then start working on it. The bridge was for INA to return to Croatian hands, for the reason that we continue to believe that Croatia can become an energy leader in the region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if we're going to watch what the future is, then energy, food and water are the future. If I'm going to rule out all other problems of your government, if I'm going to evaluate your political action only on the basis of these three items, then I must, unfortunately, say that it is devastating for the Croatian future. You're trying to sell out the energy sector. There is no significant move forward in agriculture, and because of the concession law you voted on, the future of control of the drinking water source is questionable and this is today's situation. Through one man, through Predrag Sekulić, a future Croatian strategy in energy is being outlined. If you don't care about this man, about the person who fights most for the Sisak refinery to continue the work, regardless of which party, then you don't even care about the Sisak refinery, then you don't even care about Croatian energy. Croatia doesn't have much time. I ask you to make a decision, the right decisions, for the Croatian future. And if you don't have the will and courage to return to Brussels. The only thing I can say is I'm sorry that one Predrag Sekulić didn't exist and had a quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56257	Comrade Petrov, I've given you more time, please hold on. Let's move on. The 14th question, respected Ines Strena Linic, is asked by Deputy Prime Ministers and Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, Martini Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56258	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Dalic, there is no need to stress how important Croatian shipbuilding is for her economy. It should also be noted that the Republic of Croatia, long n for years, has given generous subsidies to allow for the necessary level of competitiveness of our shipbuilding, and this year is the last year in which restructuring was granted. It is also a fact that after taking over the 3rd of May, the group filled out the book of orders and is currently in the order book of over 20 ships worth more than a billion euros and scheduled for delivery by the end of 2018. For the implementation of the programme, Uljanik Group, the government has provided guarantees for loans of $900 million, for which the state budget is now being exposed. Although there are a number of objective reasons why the difficulties of this ambitious plan occurred, there is a reasonable doubt that the business of the Oil Group is based on similar patterns as in the case of Agrokor. This suggests an unusual situation, that at the end of the first half of this year there is a debt to suppliers and cooperatives. May, more than 150 million kuna. Instead of settling debts, this company is lending 523 million kn to related companies within the Group's Oil Company. Unfortunately, we can conclude that nearly 10,000 jobs in two shipyards and cooperative companies have been compromised at this time. My question is what you intend to do to save jobs and exposed cooperative companies and enable the continuation of production and survival of Croatian shipbuilding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56259	Thank you. Please honor the vice president for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56260	Dear Representatives of Strenja Linic, as you yourself stated, Croatian shipyards, 3. May, Brodosplit and Brodotrogir, are in the implementation of the restructuring programme, which started in 2012. This means that during the accession negotiations process, it was agreed and decided that Croatian shipyards that then faced exceptional difficulties in business and depended almost exclusively on state guarantees will be privatised. Accordingly, in the privatisation process of Shipyard 3. May, is also privatized in the context of restructuring taken over by the Ulanik. The oil used to be a shipbuilding site and today was privately owned, which was only not included in the restructuring process, precisely because the business results of the Oilies were such that the plan and restructuring should not have been implemented and Uljanik was the shipbuilding site, the only domestic, existing shipyard, which in fact appeared as the one that brings new value in this case 3. Maya. It is precisely due to the implementation of the restructuring process over the past years from the state budget that the shipyards, which are located in the restructuring process, are therefore 3. In May, Brodotrogir and Brodosplit, subsidies from the state budget were paid according to this programme and in amounts according to that programme. These subsidies have not been paid to the Uljanik, given that it is not a shipbuilding site in difficulty and accordingly, the Uljanik has received guarantees mentioned under the general rules, based on the rules applicable throughout the EU, meaning in a ratio of 82:20%, in the sense that these guarantees should have been and have been agreed under market conditions and were not fully State guarantees. Following the 2016 state audit findings, the Ministry of Economy requested the implementation of budgetary supervision in May 3rd in order to establish the cash flow of the State audit and to establish a way of using subsidies paid out of the state budget. In the same way, it shall report regularly to the European Commission on the implementation of the restructuring plan. The results of the budgetary surveillance that came to the Ministry in the first draft are not yet final, so I can't inform you exactly about them at this point. However, in the same way, the Ministry of Economy has, through and through the business balance sheets of the Uljannik Shipyard and their reports, noticed that supplies are increasing to a certain extent. The economy ministry has no direct jurisdiction over the Uljanik shipyard, I repeat, it is a private-owned shipyard within and within the context of the whole restructuring process. The Uljannik Shipyard has been warned to reduce its debts to suppliers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56261	Thank you. I'm asking you to stick to the weather, we're starting to get out of time, and let's not get me into an awkward situation, please. The answer to the vice president's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56262	Dear Madam Vice President, there are three important things for the city of Rijeka, which is the Rijeka port, the Third May shipyard and the football club that will still continue to win regardless of the current situation. And that's why our concern with this is bigger, you can't say and you haven't answered my question, you can't say that at this point the Ministry of Economy has no jurisdiction because the situation is very serious. So 150 million kunas of what they owe to cooperatives and entrepreneurs and related societies, in fact they employ over 10,000 employees and in fact the most worrying fact is that 523 million kunas are actually within related societies in some way borrowed by the Oil Group. That's why it's a big problem, and that's why someone has to be responsible. You are not to blame for the situation in Croatian shipbuilding, the problem is great, and as far as Brodosplit and May 3rd are concerned, the question of what will happen after this year, but you are responsible and therefore you should actually take care and in some ways take care of what happens next. The situation with employees is such that many citizens and many people of Rijeka went to look for their bread in the Monfalcone Shipyard, all over Italy but actually wanted to stay in their country. This way, if we speak and show that we don't care, it'll be like in some sentences, the statements of some of the other HDZ officials who said if they don't fit one of them. We want to keep those experts, because without them, the shipyard and May 3rd will be gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56263	Question number 15, honourable representative Ivan Kirin, he asks that question to tourism minister Gary Capelli since he has no minister to answer that question will the Prime Minister answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56264	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government and ministers, the question is for the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Gary Capelli, who is not present, so I will ask the Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's reply. It's about the historic tourist season, what are the results of this year's tourist season in numbers and what are the plans for investments in the following year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56265	I'm asking the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56266	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Kirin, please allow me a few words instead of Minister Cappelija who is in London these days at a tourism fair where, as the Croatian public has seen, a new video of the Croatian Tourist Board is presented, so a new, quality and promotional office that should contribute to the promotion of Croatian tourism. It is true that this was the most successful tourist season in the history of the Republic of Croatia. A few days ago, we witnessed 100 million overnight stays in the Republic of Croatia. The total number of arrivals is 17.9 million at the moment and tourism revenues exceed 10 billion euros. All this is happening through the fact that even 20% increase in the consumption of tourists who were in Croatia this year. As regards investments in 2017, over 800m euros of investment were recorded. About 940m and 30m to more euros in health tourism are expected next year. You have seen for the first time in this year that we are talking for the first time about the concept of sustainability of tourism in Croatia. So, the situation we had during the summer months, especially in the coastal area, in the islands and we see that the steps are also done in continental tourism, large steps forward in key Croatian cities, Zagreb, Split. For example, Split also won the city several days ago on the Days of Croatian Tourism in Mali Losinj. They talk about ensuring the preconditions for the tourist season have been affected by the Mediterranean, the security events that we can say at the moment were a favorite for Croatia, but all that was done in Croatian tourism, which should first be thanked by a number of tourist workers, says that this was the most successful tourist season. I will mention that more than 70% of tourists coming to Croatia are on the road. And the fact that, in agreement with Slovenia, on 29 April, we agreed to switch from systematic to targeted controls, did not significantly reduce border waitings, and thus made the traffic of passengers and tourists in Croatia more pro-pulsory this year. Therefore, in agreement and I expect further activation of the MUP, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs will work on agreeing in the next season to avoid major border congestion in those key peaks of the season, especially during the weekend. All together we can be very pleased, I think this is a good introduction for the next season, for even more successful and I expect that these months that are ahead of us, so winter, we use for quality presence at a number of key tourism fairs across Europe and other markets, and that Croatian tourism continues to be crucial in terms of our GDP share and to be more than 18% as much as it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56267	Thank you. I'm asking my colleague Kirin to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56268	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The answer is clear and thank God that such a tourist season was but the best results were achieved in Istria, Kvarner and then south. 100 million overnights this year talk about a strong investment in the quality of supply and services and a variety of content. Preparations have been announced for the next tourist season, which should include measures to encourage the distribution of indigenous Croatian products, products of Croatian villages in the pension and out-of-board tourist offer, i.e. exports to our country, that is, export at home, i.e. stronger integration of green and blue Croatia. Also, perhaps we should consider establishing cooperative relations between large tourist houses, large hotel houses and hotels and the OPG by reducing imports and distribution of foreign agricultural products especially during the tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56269	Thank you. We're going to question number 16, honorary representative Anka Mrak-Taritash is asking the Prime Minister the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56270	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question is addressed to the president of the Croatian government. We've had opportunities in the media to hear it's going to be a burning week in the Parliament, but if it's known in the morning, it looks like it'll be quiet. Similarly, in Croatia under this great umbrella of Agrokora a number of other things really goes quite undetected, so also an interesting law, which is the working name Lex Sheriff, will be given a term in this Assembly in competition with the football game Croatia-Greece and here we know who will be the winner. We may not know about the football game, but we know this. However, my question is as persuading today's debate in the evening on the confidence of a minister from this government, and this is about the Istanbul Convention. The prime minister announced and we had the opportunity to hear that by the end of this year, the Istanbul Convention would be ratified but a rather interesting case occurred again, on the government's website on October 31st, about an hour-and-a-half, was the processing of objections to a law that was under public debate between July 3rd and August 3rd. These remarks were very correct, it was said that gender ideology was already before and should not be tied to it but that it should be tied to the problem of domestic violence and violence against women and after an hour and a half, it was no longer on the web pages. Well, it's very clear to me, is it really in line with what has been announced expected that by the end of this year, and we need to know that we are still talking about a month in this House, the Law on the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and the same, does the prime minister think that he will publicly call Mrs. Mare Tomasic's wife to resign?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56271	Thank you. One piece of information to calm my colleague Mrak-Taritash, so tomorrow we'll be working at the football game, so if we don't do the law by then, or if we're going to argue, then we're going to move him to next week, so just be quiet, we won't hide anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Mrak-Taritaš, for all I want on behalf of the members of the government to wish a quick repair to counterpart Nadi Turina-Đurić and I believe that this process will go well and will be with us again here in the Croatian Parliament. As regards the brief reference to this Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, so tomorrow will be the debate, and I think it is good to have a thorough discussion, so if it is necessary on Friday or the term decided by the President of the Croatian Parliament, the logic of this law has reached one balance, achieves a quality balance and avoids the situation in which so far in several cases, and there were only 50 of them in this last term, so from 2013 to 2017, practically trying to abuse the budget collapse institute in order to try to result in early elections. I am not sure that there has been some major improvement in these cases for specific units of local and regional self-government and has caused considerable costs and engagements and certain political developments. As far as the Istanbul Convention is concerned, a convention aimed at preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. You know that the convention that was signed at a time when you were in government, so it's important that the Croatian public knows because I see that insisting on the left political spectrum as if it was something that happened yesterday or the day before yesterday, and that everything burns because of the right spectrum, so at that moment there was more than enough time for the then left coalition to put that convention in the ratification process. What is quite obvious is that in the very substance itself, to the very objectives of the Convention, which is primarily to combat and combat domestic violence, violence against women has no dilemmas and I think we are all on the same side and we want to strengthen the framework of legal mechanisms in the Republic of Croatia, including international legal instruments to do so. When it comes to the ongoing public consultation process, how familiar the ministry is at this point still consolidates all these comments. When the process is over, they will be published, and then the Government will decide at an appropriate time when and in what way to continue the ratification process of this Convention, which is a reminder of the Council of Europe Convention. I therefore expect us to discuss here and perhaps a little more openly some ideological issues that are on the agenda of this convention and when it comes to the use of the concept of genders that would not appear in our legal system. For the first time through our convention, it exists in some other laws and documents that were previously adopted. Here's how much, and we'll discuss this in more detail during the afternoon at your request.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56273	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56274	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you very much for your good wishes for the recovery of my dear friend Hope Turin. It's about a brave woman. I'm sure this very difficult situation will come out for her and her family in the best way possible. Just as much to thank the President of the Parliament for making sure that indeed in that lex of the sheriffs and football games, the winner would be a football game, so that we work in that sense. Lex Sheriff will be a special subject. When it comes to the Istanbul Convention, I'm sure it's a very important document. Similarly, it is not good to go back and make sure that when someone has challenged or failed to do something, that the next ones who come better and make it to the end, there is also an invitation to this government. However, you have answered a number of questions, but you have not answered one question, which is when you will publicly invite your wife, Mare Tomasic, to resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56275	We are moving to question number 17. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic is asking the question to the health minister, Mr Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56276	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Prime Minister, members of the government, Mr. Minister. One of the most famous autosuggestic phrases of approximately a hundred years old, the famous Frenchman Emil Kue, says that he is making progress every day in every respect. Unfortunately, this autosuggestic phrase would not have helped Croatian healthcare if all doctors, all nurses, all healthcare professionals, all patients repeated three times a day before and after meals. Unfortunately, we are all aware that Croatian health care is in deep crisis, that waiting lists are getting longer every day, that the debts are getting bigger every day, that doctors are leaving Croatia, that nurses are leaving Croatia, that you were not even able to ensure that you were even able to carry out the trainee's internship masters on medical-laboratory diagnostics and so ordered go out as you say very unscrupulous and thus violate the election promises of HDZ patients if you have money and want a better hip then buy yourself that better hip. I could still count on it, but I don't have time, so I ask you to medically like an x-ray, tell us how much the total debts of Croatian health care are right now, how much the obligations have been made, what is the obligation of the state to pay in health by virtue of the Law on compulsory health insurance, how much she has paid, and how would you as a respected professor who knows how well to evaluate the work of your students evaluate your work and the situation in Croatian health at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56277	Thank you very much. The reply of the respected health minister Milan Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56278	Dear Representative Jovanovic, as far as I'm concerned, I'd let you speak more, so if you want, I'll give you more opportunities, and we can talk later, and we can talk later. So, you've performed what's in politics is naked populism. You know very well, even though you did a little medical work, even though you worked a little in medicine that health debts didn't come from yesterday, not a year ago, not five years ago. So what happens in the Croatian health system is as follows. Thanks primarily to those who work in the health system, who know, who have proven themselves in their careers, and have never built stories and have never seen a patient and are afraid now and send him to an emergency di personally you wouldn't know what you would do with that patient. And they're just the loudest. So, with what we have and how much we have the Croatian health system is of quality, at the availability of the pride of the Croatian nation, and on this trail this government will endure, and I share your concern for finance with you as well as with all Croatians, it is this, that unfortunately the total debt is 8 billion and 200 million, that at this point we are doing everything on the side of the expenditure wherever we can do more rationally and save it from what we are trying to do. However, you know, or you should have known how many years of medicine he collects in the world and that it is difficult to deal with. And as for this list of carelessness and the sending of doctors, or medical staff outside, do not give a flat rate, because most of these young people who know how to work want to build a career in Croatia, and this government will continue to do so. And as for these eight billion and 200, you know that your government, five, not four in 2013, has put into the system with an increase in public debt of six and a half billion, and in a year's time you've come back to a large number again. So you spent fast, irrationally, and inappropriately, so that within the limits of the possible we have to do the following, which is that you and I should go to work too. I was doing the hardest tumor he couldn't make yesterday. You tell me when you are, no one can make it, not in Croatia but outside. Tell me when you've done something, and I'll be the first to commend you. Go to Rijeka today or somewhere else if you can do something, go to work a little bit and show that you can work as a doctor without money and that way we will make a contribution and show young people such as hundreds and thousands of Croatian doctors, without looking at how much their wages worked and worked. And they will build a Croatian health system and will make Croatians sure about the Croatian health system and as far as money is concerned, this government will try in the most optimal way within the limits of the possible care as it has now found more than a billion in rebalancing to stabilise the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56279	Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first distinguished representative of Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56280	... By attacking a colleague of Jovanovic who, unlike you, was a participant in the Homeland War and did his job as a doctor of emergency medical care as I did in my town. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] And after that, like I couldn't get a specialization in my city, I got it from the Croatian Army, and he unfortunately because of his last name, and I can responsibly argue, he couldn't get one of the best students of my university. And after that he was at war, a participant in the Homeland War unlike you. I am appalled by this attack, instead of answering the question of what you have done in order for Croatian health care to recover because as we all know you haven't done much with these billions of kunas, we're just covering the holes and in fact the laws of Croatia are not being respected and what needs to be done is that the state pays its obligations to health in full amount, which is 4.2 billion kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56281	It estimates that no injured Rules of Procedure can be harmed. Of course, I can't say any warning, not one minister. A colleague of Jovanovic is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56282	Well, of course I will react and that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, Article 238, an embarrassing statement by a professor who is not worthy of a medical profession. You were supposed to react as an academic. Insulting by various basics without any elements that have a basis for truth and reality, the shame of a doctor's call we have seen here and that's one minister. So you can't be a minister anymore, you should leave after this step. When he asked me what I was doing, except I'm a parliamentary representative, here last week I was teaching pharmacology at the sorority, at the University of Rijeka Health Studies. Mr. Kujundzic, I am as a doctor on the battlefield and as an emergency doctor of Rijeka, saved a large number of people, resuscitated, revived, and many of them are walking today, and this is where we should talk about politics and not this cheap, ground floor, demagogue, political, populist way of insulting our colleague. Shame on you, read the Hippocratic oath, you are the disgrace of the Prime Minister of Mr. Plenkovic and the entire Croatian medical chamber. You should again be sued by the Ethics Court of the Croatian Medical Chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56283	Thank you. My colleague Jovanovic, I'm afraid you've also used completely inappropriate words, but in any case I'm assessing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56284	And Mr. Vice President, you always warn us and never your colleagues. Have you ever given a single warning to anyone in the HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56285	My colleague Jovanovic, I ask you nicely, you cannot be alone...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56286	You don't have anything to ask me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56287	You can't argue with me. That's what you know by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56288	When did you warn the HDZ? Tell me when.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56289	My colleague Jovanovic, please, you by force want to take you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56290	Well, you can't beg me because he pissed me off.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56291	So don't get upset, people around here say things to each other, and then they don't get upset anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56292	Look at them when they're telling lies and lies, then they've got to piss you off. So my life and my political and medical career have been severely damaged by the HDZ guys of this type. That's why I didn't work at the hospital because they didn't give me HDZ because of my last name and when someone starts saying that, I get completely lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56293	My colleague Jovanovic, I ask you nicely, do not violate the Rules of Procedure. Don't get lost and don't break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56294	Well, I have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56295	I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56296	And you warn your disgraceful minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56297	You know very well that there is no such business possibility but there is a possibility that I might remind you that I did not use it even though I should have done it. ... Next Agent's Question [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, a colleague has already expressed dissatisfaction, but express him once more. [[Invadica Jovanovic: I have the answer, the answer, I also answered for the answer.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56298	No, I had a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56299	Yeah, it's okay, it's okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56300	I'm very nervous right now. I don't know if I'm going to be able to say everything I wanted to say at all, but Mr. Kujundzic, you've brought him into a situation like Agrokor. So you haven't done anything, you're releasing colorful balloons, colorful lies, and there's no reform anywhere. You demagogues come forward wherever you come and you're actually the real picture and the opportunity of this government. You lied in your pre-election promises and you do exactly the opposite of what was in HDZ's pre-election promises. This is another example of the Comrade Government, a fellow government held by the compatriot cornerstone of the judiciary, which includes Sach, Glavas and Punni Bandic and Vrdoljak. It's a partner government, you're her best example. You are a disgrace to the doctor's call, the Croatian medical chamber. Your waiting lists are getting longer. Three times longer than 2015, when we left the Ministry of Health, you changed your name, today it's the Ministry of Health, not the Ministry of Health, because there's no health. Health is a state of total social, physical, mental well-being, the citizens of Croatia are very sick and are sick because of you. Shame on you. So you've ordered whoever has the money to pay for the hip. Nakic told us who had money Interrupt me, warn him. [[Intruder Kujundzic: Please don't tell lies, so I didn't say that]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56301	My colleague, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56302	You are a disgrace, you have no idea about politics, you are a demagogue, ultraconservative, opponent of abortion, all the worst that can happen to a Croatian citizen, because of a minister like this happens. So you've ordered whoever has the money to pay for the hip. Nakic said who has the money to go to Switzerland. And I'm telling you and your Plenkovic, for people who need health, you have to go back to the hospital, you're a good doctor, you're doing your job, but you're a desperate minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56303	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by distinguished MP Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56304	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, respected vice-presidents, ministers, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm asking my question, Minister of Labour and Pension System, Mr. Mark Pavic. So, talking to entrepreneurs and in public, more and more talk about it, there is a growing lack of labour in the Republic of Croatia, in several branches, especially in the metallurgical sector, in the construction sector, in the catering sector. Tourism has won us the best season since practically the Croatian state, we have heard the plans of the prime minister that we are planning with tourism in the following year, so there will be more labour in the sector and on the other hand we also have 170 thousand unemployed and those looking for a job. So I'm curious what the government of the Republic of Croatia, what are you and your ministry personally doing to reduce this particular gap, or that those looking for a job can find it in this part where the workforce is missing?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56305	Here will be answered by the Honorable Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56306	Dear Representative Totgergeli, Honored Vice President of the Parliament, MPs, fellow ministers. Thank you very much for asking, I think you've detected very well, and just today the biggest problem for entrepreneurs is precisely the lack of labour that has proved in both the tourist season and the construction season. We have made a very responsible approach to the whole problem primarily by wanting to activate the domestic workforce. Through the package of measures From measure to career we have at our disposal 145 million kunas just to requalify our domestic workforce of which we have just over 180 thousand unemployed. I would mention that it's a record low unemployment, but we're also in recent years and compared to last year that we have 50,000 more employees than 2 years, or 23 thousand more compared to last year. Also, we took a sectoral approach that we had with all sectors, we raised the building before the summer of 2 032 permits just to ensure a smooth investment cycle in the building. This year also a month ago was with Sarajevo, we launched a season agreement and... , a similar agreement will soon be launched with both Ukraine and several other countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're absolutely doing everything we can to activate the domestic force, that if we need to bring part of the seasonal workers in from nearby countries and only then go to an increase in the quota for which we will soon have meetings, or we have already had sectoral meetings with both employers and trade unions. He would also remind us that this year we invested or opened over 2 billion kunas in employment, a package of measures From measure to career billion and a half kuna, a programme we wished for the employment of over 3,000 women, 400 million kuna and what I am particularly pleased with the local initiative to encourage employment within which clubs for young people are 73 million kuna and almost 100 million with counterpart Murganic for the employment of marginalised groups. He would also remind what Mr. Bernardic mentioned, this government has raised a minimum wage of 5%, which is a record absolute raise. Salary growth in all sectors, especially in those who are the most moneyier with labour, which is primarily building and tourism. In tourism, we also have days of jobs in tourism where the government brings employers to rural areas, in the areas of Slavonia where the largest pool of labour for work in the tourist season itself. In the end, he wanted to look back, Mr Bernardic said he was on the Labour Committee yesterday, thank you very much for including them in addressing labour shortages in the labour market, perhaps too late. There they also presented the problem of professional training that they wish to abolish, perhaps that is why Mr Bernardic has just removed former Minister Mrsic from the post of head or president of the Labour Committee. Yesterday they advocated traineeships, this government has been working on it for 6 months, the last government had the opportunity to introduce traineeships, they missed professional training without establishing a working relationship as one of the measures might have been necessary then, today it fell 30% by revising measures and what they can certainly say is that they may have established traineeship, this government will actually bring it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56307	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56308	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive response. From your detailed answer even more from everything the government is doing, especially when the funds for the programs you've been talking about are being provided, I'm sure that exactly that gap I was talking about between those who are looking for work and employers who are looking for labour will be getting smaller and we'll use all these projects you've listed. I think that for areas like my county and similar counties in Slavonia, the programme that you have desired where women are employed who are about 50 years old, who can hardly find a job in these conditions right now very good and will help these people exactly but on the other hand will also need those most, these are older people who need help where... and help them to spend their retirement days more easily, and I just want you to keep going the way you did, and then the results will certainly be even better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56309	Thank you very much. The next parliamentary issue will be asked by the distinguished representative Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56310	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Makeover, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to Minister Tolusic. Ministers, I hope we are lying that agricultural production is extremely important, for several reasons, and, among other things, economically, especially when it comes to tourism and the food industry. For national security reasons, each state seeks to ensure as much production as possible of its own food, i.e. that it has as little imports for rural development as possible, that the population remains living in those parts. I therefore give you one question, which you have taken as Minister in the past year, in terms of the development of agriculture, i.e. as aid to agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56311	The reply of the respected Minister Tolusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56312	First of all, thank you to the distinguished Uncle for asking the question. I wish the situation was much better than the one we found in the 10th month last year, when the new Croatian government was formed. There's a lot going on, there's always more, but briefly in these 3.5 minutes. First of all, when we talk about the legislative framework, the vast majority, in fact, of the most important laws, as regards, I would say, the reform package in the agricultural segment, will be passed this year in the Croatian Parliament or sent to the Croatian Parliament, of the agricultural land law, which I believe is crucial for the recovery of agriculture and for a fair, final fair and fair distribution of agricultural land, the Family Agricultural Economy Act, the Law on the control of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain that would have to help our farmers to better manage the market that is inevitably trampling today. And that they're in a better position in the chain, the manufacturer, the buyer, the merchant. The Law on Marine Fisheries, the Law on aquaculture, soon the Law on freshwater fishing, the Law on the Forests, in fact everything I would have said, most importantly, will be brought here during, or at least sent to the Croatian Parliament during 2017. Of course, the laws themselves, if they're a dead letter on paper, then none of that, but we'll do everything, along with the MPs, to really implement those laws. We've already talked about EU funds on rural development programmes in one of the parliamentary issues, but I'd say that's where we cut... The knot that we have left since the SDP government, outstanding tenders, released out over a billion kn in the 12th and 1st months, launched new competitions, simplified procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The result of the new procedures, here, so I said already, measure 4, we're signing the last month, and we're gonna finish around 270 new contracts for serious projects next week. What I'm happy about, for new farms, for slaughterhouses, for mini-milk shops, for sirens, in fact, for all those things for permanent plantings, for all the things that have been a problem in agriculture so far, yet it shows that there are investors, there are farmers who want to invest and who want to develop Croatian agriculture. When we talk about our cattlemen, a milk package has been passed, so a set of sublaws, which should have been passed 3 years ago, and maybe then it would have helped our cattlemen a lot more, but it wasn't passed. We also provide special aid to the dairy sector, the school milk scheme, i.e. school milk, fruit and vegetables, is used practically exclusively for domestic producers, for our family farms. Let's not forget the short supply chain that we managed to get into the Public Procurement Act where our public institutions are obliged to give priority to domestic products, let's call it that. The Law on the Protection of Animals that definitely changes the way and the view of the Croatian Government in relation to animal protection and what is extremely important to our farmers, and for all of us, this is finally the payment of incentives in one, real, orderly, normal way. I can announce, by the end of this month, the payment of 922 million kuna advances for 2017, the rest in the second month, and so will be 2018 and 2019 and 2020, because this government keeps its word and takes care of its farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56313	Thank you. Dear Representative Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56314	Thank you, Minister. I am pleased with your response, which shows that you have helped more agricultural producers from all year to year than the former 2 ministers combined, Mostov and the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56315	Thank you very much. The next parliamentary issue is what will be asked by the esteemed representative, Rezimir Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Ministers, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Pavic. It's about the pension system. In fact, although this government has harmonised pensions for the circus 2,75% on the basis of the formula for harmonisation and on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the fact is that today there are about 50% of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, which are below, whose incomes are below the 2085 kn poverty line. The proportion of pensions in the Republic of Croatia fell to 38.4% compared to wages. While it's surrounded, for example. in Slovenia, that 60% share, Montenegro 56%, Serbia 50, Macedonia 62%, BIH 43 and a half percent, etc. I know that the government is doing what is possible in terms of opportunities and budget revenues, but I am interested in what you, as a minister and government as a whole, think about improving the situation of retired and older people as regards increasing pensions, especially minimum pensions, and also child benefits. The issue of national pension remains open, the issue remains an open issue of changes to the family pension system and remains open, including the open issue of additional health insurance on pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56317	I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56318	Honorable MP Varda, the Honorable President of the Parliament, MPs, fellow ministers. Thank you very much for asking. The status of pensioners and our senior citizens is very much in the focus of my ministry's work. We're aware of all the numbers you've given, and we're also aware of all the problems that pensioners face. We are also aware that, justifiably or unjustly in history, different social rights have been broken by the retirement of workers and that only 19% of the pensioners today have a full-time job, or over 40 years. You said rightly, this year we had the biggest coordination or indexation of pensions. The following year, the two largest increases in the 2018 budget 1.4 billion kuna is for the indexation of pensions, 1.4 million kuna are for the salaries of state and public officials. I would also mention that although a large number of our pensioners have very little income that about half of them have received between two and five thousand kunas. I'd also like to mention that the rate of employees and pensioners has increased from 1.15 to 1.24. You have just said that the issue of national pensions recently adopted by the Social Care Strategy for the elderly, where by the end of the term of office we just want and intend to bring a national pension in support of people who do not have the conditions for retirement. We are also solving the issue of 27% where the situation has just happened that certain people who are now going to the benefit of an internship, and in 2019 and the 20th early men will go, or women or men, to make a solution for that. We opened a continuous dialogue with the National Council for Retireds and Older Persons where I personally attended the agreed working dynamics at the monthly level at the last session. I would also point out many projects from the European Social Fund that are about to improve the status of older people and pensioners. I'd like to point out two projects here. One is art and culture 54+, which will provide social inclusion for citizens over the age of 54. Another program is Zaželi, which will ensure that 4000 women are employed on one side and care for more than 12 to 15000 older households, and we will provide these older households with 200 kuna per month for household supplies. Finally, I would refer to recent insinuations about pension stability and investment in the second pension column. What I can certainly say is that pensions are stable that payment is unquestionable and that anyone who claims otherwise is absolutely not responding to the citizens and to the Croatian public. Peace funds, the Second Pension Fund has over 88 billion kuna assets. Of that, 71% in government bonds, 15% in foreign and only 17% in shares. So the indisputability and sustainability of the system is unquestionable, and we're working on maximizing the adequateness of pensions because the weight of the pension of the 39 billion kuna and that is where it needs... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56319	Let's go with the obvious, colleague Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56320	... that stability, pension security issue. [[Specially enabled.]] I followed your statements and the government's position on this, and it was very important precisely for the public to stress the stability and security of pension payments regardless. Are we satisfied with the situation? I'm sure neither you nor I nor I are retired are satisfied with the situation. However, what I am actually showing special satisfaction with is that I have a record in front of me from another session of the National Council for Retired and Older Persons. Your willingness to dialogue with the social partners is mandatory once a month to discuss the problem and find a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56321	Thank you. We're going to the 21st question. Dear Representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic. He's asking the Prime Minister the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56322	Dear Croatian Prime Minister for the purpose of addressing the long-standing air pollution problem in Slavonski Brod, as we heard on October 31st, the Protocol on the gasification of the Bosnian-ship refinery between the Croatian state's resolute ministries and the Bosnian-Herzegovina entity called Republika Srpska was concluded. By not entering your personal affairs, I am sure that basically the right motives of the Republic of Serbia in symbolic terms became the first country in the world to conclude an international contract with this creation, which is called Republika Srpska, which is called an international act that is not legally binding. Welcoming every Croatian state effort to solve the acute problem of pollution in Slavonski Brod, and in order for the purpose of this protocol to be brought to life, let me remind you of several relevant facts relevant for the perspective not only of the reviving of this protocol but also of the various reasons significantly damaged Croatian Bosnian Herzegovian interstate relations. According to the Bosnian Herzegovina State Law on the conclusion of international contracts, entities can enter into agreements with countries only with the consent of the state parliament, a certain legal procedure has been prescribed to quote according to a novel signed by a representative in this Assembly, Mr Bozo Ljubic. So, my question is whether the future constitutional legal opposition in BiH can compromise the implementation of this Protocol and whether the Republic of Croatia will continue to implement it independently on the abovementioned legal anomalies.../The speaker has been excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56323	A colleague of Hasanbegovic, I ask you to come up with a question within 2 minutes. 2 minutes is quite enough time and is held by the vast majority of MPs so please also. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56324	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Representative Hasanbegovic, thank you for asking. You also said in it a series of facts that were true, which happened. What is important may be a small nuance, so it is an agreement signed between the ministries, so the Croatian Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining R.S.A. Why am I saying that? I'm talking because it's not a classic international contract. It's a protocol that we can qualify as an international act. So the shade below the contract that doesn't matter in the context of what you're saying. Otherwise, I think the very purpose of this agreement is positive, I suppose we agree here and you heard the question of Commissioner Maksimchuk and Minister Coric. Oil refinery The ship unfortunately pollutes the environment not only in the Bosnian ship but in Slavonski Brod and extends in the Posavina County for many years. This idea of gasification should solve a problem that has damaged the safe quality of life and especially the quality of air in that part of Croatia for many years. I believe that this agreement is a step forward for solving problems because we are here first and foremost to try to solve problems. And it seems to me that the broader context of relations between the Republic of Croatia and BiH can still be put in a realistic positive framework. Here I will just list that we are the first government to go into full composition, so in full composition in Sarajevo where on July 7th we had a joint session of the Government and the Council of Ministers of BiH, 50 points of the agenda, including the debate and this problem concerning the refinery of the oil ship. So what happened on October 31st also has its previous times and previous agreements and talks that were not only held at the level of one of the two entities but were carried out both at the level of the central government and the competent ministers. As for wider relations with BiH, our support for its European path, its internal reforms is more than clear and obvious. As for MP Ljubic's initiative to organise a debate in the Croatian Parliament at an appropriate time, where we would concentrate with more focus and more time on us and really the most important neighbouring country from a series of aspects, not just because, as we view geographically, Croatians are the most constructive people, but also because of numerous political, economic and other relations. I think that this initiative is commendable and I expect that when the Croatian Parliament assesses it, we also hold such a debate, of course, with a desire to make it a constructive contribution to the Croatian Parliament on the overall relations between Croatia and BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56325	I thank the Prime Minister. Here's a colleague of Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56326	Mr. President, in fact, you haven't answered my question, so the purpose and purpose of this protocol is uncontestable. So I'm talking about international legal means. The fact is that the Croatian Law on the conclusion of international contracts knows the classification between an international contract and an international act that the Bosnian-Herzegovina law does not know. But speaking of the legal assessment of this protocol, I would remind you of the textbook of international law, Professor. Andrassya from which you have also passed an exam which says from a legal point of view are without meaning different names, contract, convention, act, protocol, agreement, declaration, pact, charter, arrangement. There is no specific form for the conclusion of existing international contracts. The same is said in the Vienna Convention on Contract Law which is above national laws as we know it. In other words, I specifically asked you whether, given all these circumstances, you would continue to implement this protocol or not, you did not answer me and please answer me in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56327	Let's move on, the next question, Honored Representative Slaven Dobrovic, raises the question to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56328	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Prime Minister Vlada Plenkovic, I certainly believe that you know that Croatia is best known in the world by Plitvice Lakes and Dubrovnik. What's going on with Plitvice Lakes today? So they are on the safe path of getting off the UNESCO World Heritage List. I'm very glad that I personally had the opportunity as minister to introduce you to this problem, which is all just not simple, so this year. What's the last thing going on? 19.7. this year, the discovery of an illegal pipe for the release of fecal waste water, in a strictly protected nature, called on the Croatian defender for environmental protection inspection, sanitary inspection and the MUP to carry out an eyewitness. The eyewitness was carried out, sanitary, water law inspection did not come and was only taken upon orders from the DORH water sample and examined. What happens next? Nothing. So we can obviously say that institutions here don't do their jobs. So I ask you, Prime Minister, are you familiar with these facts and are you prepared to take the necessary steps, as this scandal in the heart of Croatia's most valuable natural one deserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56329	Please respond to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56330	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Dobrović, I well remember our conversations on this topic and your personal engagement on Plitvice Lakes, as a national park and one of the most attractive, undoubtedly natural beauty of Croatia, and on this side I fully agree with you. As regards this decision of 19.7. I am also aware of this, Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection, Col. Coric takes care of the fact that in Plitvice Lakes, as a protected national park, no action is taking place, which could contribute to what could be characterized by pollution and I expect that he and all those in charge of Plitvice National Park will be prevented together with other inspection services, any behaviour that could affect the quality of Plitvice Lakes, primarily water resources, but also other activities in that area, especially what could be qualified as illegal construction. On the other hand, Minister Coric and his services will continue all activities to protect Plitvice Lakes National Park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56331	It's an obvious colleague of Dobrović's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56332	Thank you very much for your answer. So it is evident from your answer that the true truth is hidden from you, or that you are informed by people, therefore, in a way that the truth, or that the image is greatly embellished. I remind you, there is a huge misunderstanding and denial of the problem, from the construction sector in the government of the Republic of Croatia. I also remind you that many administrations, public administrations, administrations of the national park, since the independence of Croatia, have also denied and unrecognized the problem, in fact created it. So the recent shift of directors, who spoke publicly about this problem and who did something in that field, shows that we as a state are not on track to protect Plitvice. UNESCO was visiting early this year and made it clear that it was necessary to change the procedure for obtaining a building permit. Meanwhile, more than 50 building permits were issued, without the proper participation of a public institution. So, what's the conclusion? The conclusion is that private entrepreneurship, i.e. capital is fully in control of the situation. The water inspection didn't come, and a water license, for a large facility, was recently obtained. I'm sure this is exactly the situation, ignoring major problems, not caring for the public good, and then the uncontrolled power of local capital, is the main motivator, for our young, educated, to take a one-time ticket to Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56333	Let's move on. The next question, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic, also raises the question to the prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56334	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, he would like to ask a question about the World Bank's report in the area... Indexes measuring the operating conditions, i.e. a number of obstacles investors have when they want to invest in Croatia, so it is evident this year that the fall on that scale was 8 seats, from 43 to 51 of 190 countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the conditions for Croatia as an investment destination have actually deteriorated. What I would point out to you is that your vice-president of the government who is in charge of the economy has stated to herself, in fact, to the ministry of her goal to get to that scale but in the opposite direction, means 10 to improve. This turns out that the measures that were taken actually turned out to be in 18 places. Instead of going 10 up, we went 10 down. What I would specifically ask you is what, in your opinion, the reforms that the government has made, and have not been successful, have had no effect on this measure, or, which the government has failed to make, because it is cross-cutting, and that the cause of such a huge fall on the scale... Business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would only say that Macedonia and Slovenia, Kosovo, Montenegro, Serbia are ahead of us, so let's say Rwanda, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56335	The Prime Minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56336	Thank you very much, dear fellow Panenić, for your question and for your comment. It is true, so Doing Business has put Croatia 8 places lower than it was last year but you are also a bit of a day, I'm sure you have been informed and have read the whole of this report, then you noticed that in the overall evaluation of all that Croatia is doing, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not taken any tax reform nor its effects. Therefore, the period observed was observed from June to June and since the tax reform came into force on 1 January, it was not taken into account at all for this evaluation. And that fact, in my opinion, is the key to why it happened, let's say, that little drop down from eight places. But this can only be an incentive for us to continue structural reforms, to implement the national reform programme, all that we have put into the government's work programme, which continuously represents points of the government's agenda. There will be a new Strategic Investment Act at the government session tomorrow. All that is ahead of us will also apply to resources in which we must take a step because without it and there is no improvement in neither the investment climate in Croatia nor the strengthening of legal certainty. I am also thinking about reforming the administration, so public administration and reforming the judiciary and reforming the pension system and reforming the health system, all those topics that are listed as our objectives, and it is not realistic to achieve all these objectives in the first year of the term of office. We had a number of topics to deal with, however, discharging Croatian economies that go in favour of Croatian entrepreneurs, we conduct a constant and continuous dialogue with our social partners and employers and trade unions. The next week, Gothenburg will have a social summit of the EU, where it will now be all about jobs, for the jobs of the future, it was a topic of the digital summit, we will discuss it a little bit in the afternoon, and I think that signal that happened at this point in respect of those who evaluated Croatia would have been more appropriate if they had taken into account the key reform that took place at the beginning of this government's term, and then I am sure that the order itself was something more favourable for Croatia. But here, we have plenty of time, we have determination and will and knowledge, and I believe that you will help us with your experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56337	The obviousness of fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56338	Thank you. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your response. The last time I asked you on the topical I was about the rise in compensation for renewable energy sources, then you stated that VAT was reduced so I established here your knowledge of the economic impact of VAT that we say is insufficient to discuss at all, but then I was disappointed. Now I'm going to say you're directly lying. You just have to find out you're lying to us here in the assembly or you're lying to the World Bank. In fact, if you look at it right now, I read the World Bank report well, there are two taxes that are mentioned in the tax reform that are crucial. In fact, one is a tax on a company that is not included, probably because of the fact that in recent 2016 to which it applies, it applies from 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. But then I can't figure out how the Ministry of Economy even sent the information that the property tax is reduced by 1% when the same tax applies from 1.1.2017? When that index increase came out, there'd be a few more places to go. Therefore, I would still find here that false documents were delivered to the World Bank according to what we have. I don't really see how you're gonna justify it, but I've just been with the representatives of the World Bank, and you need to tell them now that, we've provided you with one piece of information that went in our favor to make the fall smaller. But try to control actually your associates and I'll just tell you in this pause, I'll talk about another affair, an affair that concerns the allocation of funds... from the Ministry of Regional Development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56339	Thank you, thank you, fellow Panenic, thank you. And please let us choose words anyway, we can say it in a much nicer way, thank you. Comrade Maras, now it's your turn to ask the Prime Minister the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here today is the little energy and diction of our prime minister in line with the rainy day of Zagreb, the monotonous, the boredom, with little energy to bring optimism amongst us fellow MPs, so I will begin atypically and I will commend him. So I like how our Prime Minister Plenkovic is trying to praise his results here, but at the same time, I'm caught by infidelity. Unbelief because no one, almost no one in Croatia, believes in the Government of Andrej Plenkovic. 77% of our citizens don't trust the HDZ government, they don't trust Andrej Plenkovic. Citizens see that Andrej Plenkovic did not return INA to Croatian hands. Citizens see Andrej Plenkovic hiding his associates Seks and Ramljak in the Agrokor affair. Citizens see that Andrej Plenkovic has made the so-called "Plenkovic" possible. To the scavenger funds hundreds of millions of euros in earnings and profits and the possibility of selling the most valuable Croatian companies tomorrow. Citizens see that Andrej Plenkovic, Anti Ramljak, made a net salary of 70,000 kuna. Citizens see that over a hundred thousand of our citizens have left Croatia during the term of office of the government of Andrej Plenkovic. That's not funny. Guys, that's not funny. Don't laugh at that. All of this is what our fellow citizens see. And despite what these results are defeating my question to you, is it uncomfortable for you to boast despite the fact that citizens do not see your results and that almost no one in the Republic of Croatia believes you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56341	The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56342	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, I don't think Cicero will be your equal if you continue like this. You must be training at home in front of the mirror, as you also boast in these interviews on TV that you have lost weight. I congratulate you on that. You've listed one of your colleagues, Maras, who's got some spin doctors who's sending you some telegrams or texting what to react to after I say so. You've simply infiltrated that routine of your party chief's performance. And I have to admit listening to you all this time that really as you said, here's what I'm going to quote you for a little bit in infidelity. I am in denial because you are trying to make Croatian public, to the Croatian voters an impression of the drama they do not have. Because exactly the opposite, the difference between SDP and HDZ is that you are acting politically, and we are acting responsibly. And if for a moment you think people don't see it you're wrong, you're wrong, fellow Maras. And all this work you're doing, all these plays you're trying to do at the plenary session, on committees, and in part on this investigation committee, they're only aiming at, a very simple goal to make it appear that Croatia is in trouble. That's your only goal. And that's why I'm apostrophe of the word political responsibility. I have at all times, at no time, and even in this situation and the crisis around Agrokor, we have made no move that would be contrary to the general interest. You're also talking to your party leader about scavenging, scavenging funds. So why don't you explain to the Croatian public if you think the Zagreb Bank is also a vulture? Say, here you can explain to the Croatian public whether ZABA as far as I know the bank with the largest stake in our banking market is a vulture. If it is, you make it up to me, I kindly beg you. I'm sure you'll contribute to the image of that business bank on our market. So, I appeal to you, I understand you in the political game all this is both sweet and handsome. But try to make that shade. It is also the responsibility of the opposition to contribute to the general objective. It's not your duty only to criticize and it's not constructive. You're talking now, here I'm reading that you have a team that will work on the law. Now, so you'd be working even after the law is in effect for seven months. So we can do it at this pace, fellow Maras, while you're on your way, while you write something down, while you suggest something to end the term of office. Is that right? I think you should be more real to your mom, a little less theater, a little more constructive, a little more dialogue. Point is okay. You'll get half a percent, one percent, but you're still losing the election. And that's what the key is. Therefore, we are not really going to be under the impression of a single flash recording survey at one point with the media unmultucing of what you are doing, but a total Suport which you can get from all actors who are also on the verge of responsibility for what is happening in Croatia. Same on the verge of responsibility with all due respect. So I appeal to responsibility and reason. You can contribute, but you don't have to. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56343	Thank you. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56344	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm glad you're following my work and following my interviews, because you noticed that a reporter said that you once suggested that I was doing well in the opposition, that I took off a few pounds. And then I said you and I were on the same weight. Oh, no? I went down 10, you went up 10, and we're here somewhere. So obviously, on that side, you're in the prime minister's position, too, in a different way. But what is much more important here than who has the weight, is that Croatia and Croatian citizens deserve transparency. You didn't get the authority to do what you wanted. You have to have a dialogue with the citizens, so that's why it serves the Commission of Investigation. You must have a dialogue with the opposition, so this Croatian Parliament is also serving. You refused to come when we invited you to talk about a roll up contract signed by Ante Ramljak. So you don't want communication. Well we're not, we have no other option than to show Croatian citizens that their voice will be heard. But it's not a problem that Gordan Maras doesn't trust you. You said it was a political game, but you should worry about what 77% of our citizens don't trust you. Don't be so self-loving and say that the election wins HDZ, loses SDP or someone else. You're afraid of choices more than the SDP. Believe that you have the courage and that you have the faith to win the election would already be now. But you're waiting for the 2019 mandate in the European Commission and that's the only intensity of your stretching this whole story. Let Mimica go. Who's going to put him back where he's going? I tell you what you're waiting for. You are afraid of the elections and you are always avoiding a debate with the Croatian opposition and that is why it had to be set up once and in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56345	Let's move on. The next is a respected colleague, Robert Jankovics, who asks questions from government vice-presidents and Foreign and European Affairs Minister Marija Pejcinovic Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56346	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister of Croatia, my question, I ask the vice-presidents of the Croatian government, the foreign minister and she refers to the problem of the area from which I come, from the Baranja area, and as regards the issue of demarcation with Serbia over the Danube, i.e. the question of the Croatian enclave on the left coast of the Danube, Kenya, which, in the case of the catastrian part of the Republic, is possible only through the catastrian territory of Serbia or the Danube bridge near Batina. The difference between the Croatian enclave and numerous other unresolved border issues of the Republic of Croatia is that our people, our citizens, live in Kenya, who are in a dramaticly unequal position compared to other Croatian citizens. I'm going to illustrate some of these problems. The ambulance is not coming, the firefighters can't come, the Croatian Post Office doesn't deliver mail, and all of these are our citizens, who have our ID cards, our license plates, have registered OPGs. So, in the White Manastir advisory service, he leads them as his own, and they face the problem quite concrete, that, for example, seed for sowing, can't carry it across the border, can't sow it, and they have to buy it to achieve our incentives, blue diesel, they also have the right, they can't carry it across the border. Fortunately for pesticides in Serbia, there is no surveillance at this time, so I can buy it there to use it. They sell the product, that they are forced to perform, although it is produced on Croatian agricultural land, they are forced to sell it in Serbia and are once again punished, because there is a return of agricultural products, a tax on agricultural land, and... to produce it on Croatian soil. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, apart from problems with Croatian citizens there, there is a major problem that concerns, therefore, the countries used in the Kenyan area. I know you know all this, Madam Minister, because we talked about this, the question is, what can we do, do we do what we can and what can we do to help these people out there?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56347	Thank you. The Deputy Prime Minister's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56348	... We have discussed this issue, in fact, the question of all the issues is the question of the limit and the determination, finally setting the limits will actually solve all those issues. [[Specially enabled.]] For those who may not be sufficiently addressed, therefore, this is one of those residual issues that remains of Croatia's independence, therefore, border issues, related to neighbouring countries. We stood by and we represented it in negotiations with Serbia while they lasted until 2011, so that Croatia, Croatia, the Croatian foothold for the border issue, on the Danube, in Srijem, but for all other border issues, is based on an arbitration decision... The commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the catastrian borders of the former municipalities have become an isolation of the state border, so now the state border between Serbia and Croatia. We are the view that this should be addressed in the context of questionable bilateral relations with the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the time has come for us to sit at the table for every question and for this question. In that sense, we will soon appoint our border commission. We've already collected all the names and only follows more confirmation on our government. And then, in the context of open issues with Serbia, we need to open this issue as well. We would like to deal with this issue directly with the talks, we hope it will be the same will on the Serbian side, that we will continue our position will continue to be the same. So, according to us, it is an uncontested Croatian territory, and we must, therefore, be directly, either, if it does not go through direct negotiations in the context of a judicial solution based on international law, therefore, if we agree on both sides and other states, to find such a response that will be based on international law. So, the overall resolution of this issue, the border issue will actually enable us to solve this issue as well. You have exposed all the reasons why the Croatian state cannot now effectively have that kind of, therefore, perform its functions in this area, as it would like to now. And it's not just about the Kenji area, it's about the area... So it's also the question of the Charengrad and the Vukovar hells. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we think that after all these years, the time has come for us to solve open issues and a particular border issue exactly in the sense that our citizens get those rights that belong to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56349	Here you go, fellow Jankovics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56350	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm pleased with your answer and I have a lot of confidence in what you're saying. In addition, the issue of the Croatian state, I note, that when it comes to this stage, that there are several ten thousand acres of the most fertile country, I was personally there and I saw it all. So let's pay particular attention to this, and also to the fact that almost 200 illegal cottages were built there, whose legalization would have brought a new budget in one year only to the municipality of Draž. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56351	Thank you. The next question, respected representative Bojan Glavasevic, also raises the issue, Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign and European Affairs Minister Marija Pejcinovic Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56352	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Greetings to the Prime Minister and to the members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Recently, in Croatian media, commenting on the acquisition of armored limos, the Ministry of the Interior said that among other things, the intensity of the supply of lemons was to prepare Croatia's EU presidency in 2020. Also, just earlier this month, a colleague of yours said it was very important that fighter aircraft be purchased by 2020 in connection with our EU presidency. Madam Minister, I must say, I'm a little concerned about the fact that we hear more from your colleagues about this project than we do from you. Right now, for some time now, since you've been appointed to this duty you're currently acting in the ministry, you haven't appointed Secretary of State for European Affairs. I also looked at the budget, i.e. the budget proposal for next year is foreseen only 400,000 kuna for the next year to prepare the Croatian Presidency. The presidency isn't just planes, it's not just cars and it's not just material things. The question is also what about AGENDA, what are our priorities. So my question to you do you know how much other countries cost the EU presidency, how much do you project that will cost Croatia, and where have you arrived so far with the preparation of Croatian priorities? So, what we will do in 2020 when Croatia first sits at the head of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56353	Thank you. I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56354	Thank you very much and thank you for this question. It is indeed a very important issue for the Republic of Croatia, because we will follow the decision of 2016, and following BREXIT we have been given the opportunity and we have actually taken the obligation to chair before it was planned. So, we may be among those countries that have started to preside over the EU internship at the earliest. And so rightly your concern as we prepare for this membership. I can only tell you that when I came to the ministry to work as Secretary of State for European Affairs primarily, my first task was to start with this big project. And currently in the ministry is working on a group of ten people who are very seriously preparing the Croatian presidency. The issue of the presidency can be put into several frameworks. So one is the logistics that is, which includes one of your questions that you asked. So certainly when you chair that you should also hold some summits and some high-level meetings. And so many of the security measures that should be taken for protected persons that we will have in the framework of the presidency should also be provided for such logistics for these things. How does the state do that? There are different models. So we're doing very seriously now in preparation for the structure and logistics. So, very soon the government will have a proposal on how we're going to put it logistically. Some agreement earlier, we also had a debate at the government at the end of March this year on the main frameworks for the Croatian presidency to look like. So we want to have the presidency of what countries our size have. So it will be based primarily on our mission to Brussels, so Brussels... This is what countries of the size of Croatia and a little larger usually do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a question of rationality. But one part and not a small part of the activity will also be in the state. So we certainly take care of this part. The second part is a question of human resources. Perhaps it is for the country that holds the presidency for the first time and which is such a young EU member and the most challenging issue. In one part, we'll certainly base ourselves on the people we have in the state administration. We have made preliminary analyses of what we have in Croatia. You need to know, and it might be important for the general public to understand. So our work will be equal to our obligations as Member States plus on this we will have to do everything that the country when the Presidency does is Germany or whether it is Croatia. So definitely in one particular time, and that's going to be about a year and a half to two, where a little of that time goes on and on after the presidency. So we're going to need to have an increase in the number of people in the state administration working on it. Our permanent representation in Brussels will increase from the current 80 to probably over 200 in view of this kind of presidency we have chosen within the body of the state administration and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, which will be the main coordinator of this decision we have already made in this preliminary analysis, so they will also have to receive new people and, more importantly, train these people. And the fourth part, the third part is the one you're wondering about, which is important but not so crucial to decide now. So that's what we're working on, but we haven't made it to the area yet to decide our priorities. Namely, the priorities will depend on more than one thing. We will preside in the year when the new Commission, the new Parliament, and no one today can best predict what priorities will remain at the level of the important European Union that we will have to assume as the Presidency. So we, like all presidents, will have to take over part of the priority Still working. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Here's the answer to how much that could cost. Between 50 and 110 million euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56355	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and thank you, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, for your response. I'm happy with it, but I'm not happy with it. I would ask you to give me a more concrete and detailed answer in writing. What's this about? I am performing here from the position of good faith, so the chairmanship of the Union must be a joint project. The prime minister recently spoke of the European consensus that we once had and we can have it again. But let me say here in the language of the people what people could hear from your answer. We'll preside over the Union in 2020 and buy cars and hire people. I know, I mean, we don't need that kind of populism here, and that's not what I'm telling you that I heard it. But I'm also telling you that much, much more concretely we need to define what our priorities will be. I understand when you say that 2020 will be a new Commission and a new Parliament and that it will change the Union's priorities. But let's put Croatia first. We go regardless of what the Union's priorities will be, that's what we can easily adapt to. But let's define what Croatia's priorities will be. We can talk about this right now. So here we are, get us involved, we'll take part in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56357	Thank you. The next question will be asked by distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56358	Thank you, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. My question will be addressed to the EU Regional Development Minister and Funds, Mrs. Gabrieli Žalac. One of the associations on European funds is that they are complicated procedures and excessive administration, it is said that EU money is very difficult to come by, that procedures are complex, full of pointless requirements and not only in the part relating to the application of the project but also later in the implementation of the project and at a time when the sustainability of the project itself is seen over the years. Of course, with great fear that the funds will be needed and returned. So we have applicants when it comes to the recovery of dumps, the construction of sewer systems, hospitals. In any case, our citizens organized into associations, or small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are already making it harder to report the project. Therefore, the question of what makes your ministry have as little administrative burden as possible, so that the procedure is as small as possible and that the use of the funds is as high as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56359	Thank you for the response of the distinguished Regional Development and Fund Minister, Mrs. Gabriele Žalac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56360	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government, respected parliamentary representatives. Dear Parliamentarian Branko Juričev-Martinchev, I would agree with you in part that the procedures are as they are, difficult, but should also be said that they all want EU funds to meet all requirements, each individual and request and paper in order for our system to function equally towards all. What we can say is that we did in the term of our government and certainly what we wrote in the government's program, it's just simplifying the procedures you're talking about. And on this we work very hard and intensively through the 50% of the entire allotment that is available to us in this year we have announced the competitions themselves and all that we need to bring down to the end users. But more importantly, we cut deadlines, therefore, and procedures that occur within each and every single priority of our operational programmes. So we need to have 3 steps instead of 7 steps that we need to be within 120 days and that we need to fix some things to make EU funds available to end users as soon as possible. What's most important is the European Commission's audit findings and the so-called information system. Miss, we've done our job on it, and we've worked hard on it for the past year. We've tested him for a limited call now in office. Next week, we will present this to the public because what is our obligation under the 2013 EU Regulation and it is called e-cohesion, which means the information system in which projects will be applied, where project proposals will be monitored, where everything will be seen by the exact name, last name, institution, etc., the resolution ministry, all bodies in the system, even the audit findings that will be, that is the condition we have met. And I think it's very good that without paper our users of the European fund will practically get on one information system. We've actually invested 5 million kunas in that. On the basis of this, we have foreseen an additional 5 million kunas that we need to provide for the upgrade and functionality of this system when all users and there are many of them depending on which they are competing from the operational programme competitiveness of cohesion, the operational programme of effective human potential, and the operational programme for food and material assistance. This has been done by a lot of experts, which makes us extremely proud, and we think that we will really be much more effective in the next period. When we talk about audit findings, then I have to admit that this particular system will eliminate all the problems we have and they're called so-called. corrections in procedures and all that we have seen in the past. I think that through the process of absorption that we have found as a 9% government, we are now at over 31% of the contracting of funds and this is about the efforts we are doing within our ministry and in this context we, too, as a coordinating body for all the funds in the Republic of Croatia with all the resources we are trying to remove as soon as possible all the problems we have had in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56361	Thank you very much. Dear representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56362	Thank you very much. It is evident that the ministry is making significant efforts and certainly not only for me today but all of our citizens will be glad to hear how much it is working and that this will encourage a number of citizens either joined in associations or small, medium-sized entrepreneurs and even smaller municipalities that are unable to run for funds so far, given the complicated procedure and that this will contribute to better use of EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56363	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Zeljka Josic, State Property Minister Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56364	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. My question was addressed to the Minister of State Property, Mr. Goran Maric. You know that residents of the Moscow region, Sisak-Moslavina County, have been living in fear for a number of years now, given Petrochemy and fear that Petrochemy will end up as well as other entities in Sisak-Moslavina County. We all know that the fate of Petrokemia is not only a lack of jobs for those who are employed in Petrokemia itself but also for other businesses and small crafts that are based on Petrokemia itself. Unfortunately, according to the latest report of the Petrochemy Supervisory Board, we have seen Petrochemy continue to operate at a loss. What we know from the past several years if we go back that Petrochemia has tried a recapitalisation which unfortunately has not been successfully implemented. What interests me and what interests the entire Sisak-Moslavina County at which is now the stage of trying to reconstruct and capitalize Petrochemy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56365	The reply of the respected Minister of State Property Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56366	Thank you very much. Appreciated colleagues Josic, a representative's appreciation, Petrochemy is a major economic entity in many respects. Some areas and crucial. First of all, for agriculture but also for the existence of family and survival of people in the Moslavina area. After years of reckless relations with the difficulties of Petrokemia, after a long-standing volunteer approach to the management of Petrokemia, according to many... The reasons for how professional, economic, logical and political Petrokemia needs to be revitalised, recapitalised and restructured. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all in order for Petrochemy to remain in the role of reviving agriculture because there is no country with developed agriculture that is not developed itself. That is why the government, when Petrochemy was completely in a state-of-the-art in resolving loans by stock to state-owned companies a few months ago, helped to liquidate the process of recapitalisation. Two competitions have been announced. The first was for public interest and the second was for binding offers. In the final phase of the recapitalisation process, 400 million kunas of minimum recapitalisation are expected, we would be happy to have more and the Petrochemy Assembly is scheduled to report on the completion of the recapitalisation on 11 December this year. Why do you even need the recapitalisation of Petrokemia? So we'd be non-serious people and we wouldn't be a serious state if we planned to develop agriculture without Petrokemia. Agriculture without Petrokemia is like building a pond without water and without constant water sources. That's why it's crucial, isn't it, because Petrochemy isn't just one business system and one technology system? Petrochemia and its revitalisation are crucial to the survival of agriculture. And this government has opted for a healthy recapitalisation and business restructuring process, and it is actually an act of the most responsible political relationship towards such an important economy system as Petrochemy. Because to leave Petrokemia to abandon, destroy or not give God to closure, it would be a painful, expensive adventure with long-term consequences and this government would never agree to it or allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56367	Thank you. Dear representative Željka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56368	I thank Mr. Minister for your reply. And thank you for your engagement around our great economic subject and you've said it well, so it's not just one industry that's important for one end, but for the entire Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56369	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by respected representative Vesna Bedekovic, culture minister Mrs. Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My respects to the Prime Minister, present ministers and ministers and state secretaries in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As has already been said, my question goes to the Minister of Culture, Mrs. Obuljen Koržinek. So, Madam Minister, one of the current topics related to your portfolio these days is, among other things, one that is related to promoting the development of the audience in culture and these are the programmes that are related to the development of the audience aimed primarily at raising the level of active participation in culture and art and, of course, increasing the availability of cultural content. It is precisely to identify the diversity of the needs of audiences of different profiles and, of course, meet the needs of existing audiences but also create new audiences. And so here's my question to you, Madam Minister, when the Ministry of Culture intends to begin or has already begun implementing these measures, how and how much budget funding are provided for these activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56371	Thank you very much. The reply of the distinguished culture minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56372	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, thank you for your question, as you probably know, and we have spoken a lot of the last days and in public about this in fact the question of attracting the audience and the question of participation in culture is one of the priority topics in the term of our government and so on in everything the Ministry of Culture is doing within its work. I must say that a large number, a large part of the measures and policies of the Ministry of Culture that already exist, is aimed at attracting the audience to participate in culture and promoting evenly regional development. I would mention perhaps a roaming network dating back to the '90s, public library opening programs, encouraging investment in cultural centres. However, regardless of all these measures, there is a need for more investment and for targeted programmes to promote the development of audiences and especially the availability of culture, especially for those citizens and in those areas where participation in cultural life is not easy through regular distribution systems. I would briefly mention what we have done so far and what we plan to do further, so all month ago, a pilot project has been launched to encourage cultural participation with the 500 000 budget for this year that we plan to increase in the following years just to see through this pilot project which are the types of programs that artists, art cultural organisations and institutions think they can implement in their field and to attract a new audience. It's an exceptional interest, more than 500 project proposals have arrived at this public call. I would mention that last week the government adopted a national read-in strategy, we talked a lot about it, the main implementation of the partners will be the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Culture, however, and other resolutions. At this point in time, we have secured about a million and a half kuna in the next year from the state budget, but we are planning to finance largely from the European funds, or from the European Social Fund, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour. I would mention, and here is Minister Pavić mentioned a 54+ programme of art and culture earlier in his reply. 20 million kuna provided for the implementation of the programme to encourage participation in the culture of the elderly population, then art and culture for young people. The call was actually called at the beginning of the year. We're in the final phase of the evaluation, so the negotiation of these projects will be at the end of this year. And what I might end up pointing out, it's not a topic that just marks the cultural policy of the Republic of Croatia, it's a priority topic at European level. Many and much more developed European countries with developed cultural markets go with programmes, for example. A voucher for young people, different programs that are precisely in that generation ensure that the interest to participate in culture is raised and we will continue to develop all these measures and programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56373	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56374	Here I thank you for your response, and indeed here I still need to reiterate what you have said, so the special value of these programs is among other things in me, I would say in the whole range of these, that you have listed, targeted programmes that will, among other things, enable the availability and convergence of culture and art to a potential audience of different profiles, different ages, different environments where, of course, it is not negligible to target the overall regional development, development of the entire Croatia, especially rural environments where through these programmes, it will actually enable the sensitisation of the general public for the field of culture and art. And what I find particularly important, achieving an affirmative and positive approach to different and all kinds of culture and art through the use of different methods, for example those in the field of creative education or, say, communication through a web platform and so on, so I have no doubt that these programs will gain success in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56375	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56376	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister, Honored Minister, Minister. I will refer my question to Mr. Zdravko Maric. So here, respected ministers, last week at the observed conference presented a document of the euro strategy, i.e. the public debate on the introduction of the euro as the official currency of the Republic of Croatia was launched. We know that to enter the euro zone, certain preconditions are to be met, which are presented to economic indicators, in order to enter the EU. We know that Croatia's public debt is high, it's significantly above 60% of our GDP, which is one of the main preconditions for EU accession, so I wonder how we are currently standing by meeting these and other economic indicators so that we can introduce the euro and when could Croatia meet the criteria for introducing the euro? He would add that this conference also explained the technical issues surrounding the introduction of the euro itself, opened a number of discussions and dilemmas for and against the introduction of the euro, and I think it was the aim of the conference to discuss all open issues in a transparent manner. The dilemmas exist at the moment, but here's how much I follow this topic, I think that most experts and most businessmen, most of the unions for introducing the euro, and perhaps in short lines, I know that this requires one longer elaborate on it, two, three cartoons that may be the most important for you citizens, for the economy, for the state and for society as a whole from the introduction of the euro?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56377	Thank you. The reply of the respected Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56378	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, thank you very much for the question, you said well, so last week we encouraged and launched one sure in the government, along with the CNB, a reasoned debate in our public both professional and general public to get closer to present and in some ways debate all of these elements of the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia as from the perspective of the benefits identified in the document itself as permanent and as those who certainly exceed the costs that are one-off. However, these are all things that should surely be discussed and discussed, we have apostrophe of those perhaps most important to Croatian citizens, this is primarily about the elimination and removal of this so-called. the currency risk that we feel both as citizens and as entrepreneurs and as a state. At the same time and a whole series of other costs whether we're talking exchange costs, whether we're talking about interest costs. I certainly will not tell anyone that, as such interest will necessarily fall below these current levels, but what is certainly important is that Croatia will do much better when the euro is introduced because today, regardless of our historical interest rates, we continue to pay interest rates that are more than countries like Slovakia or Slovenia. Of course, it should be about the costs themselves or what it will mean for us, but what was among other things a strong message to Croatian citizens, first of all, who have loans at the moment, were in euro, and this among other things was one of the presidents of the banking sector very clearly apostrophe that the cost of such a type of conversion at the introduction of the euro would go exclusively, and only if it was on the banks at all, so to Croatian citizens, in terms of the cost of any additional separation would not mean it. However, that first part of the question that you have apostropheed why, among other things, we have launched this debate here is precisely that these last two years have not done what we have done with public finances, this topic would not be possible at all on the agenda, i.e. as such in the public space debate at all. So public debt, the fact is above these famous and well-known fantasy criteria 60%, but the path of its reduction is already another year in a row more than enough that we can also take this criterion into account because it also says very clearly if you are over 60% of the path of reduction must be at least one twenty-year and the difference in which the translation would mean that Croatia would have to reduce the share of public debt annually by around 1.3% of the point of GDP. We've been twice as fast last year, and this year, by all accounts, will be on that trail, so almost between 2.5 and 3% points, which is certainly something that's good, and that's also in Brussels welcomed. You are well aware that we have come out of the excessive deficit procedure and here is Croatia, together with all other members or the EU countries outside the euro area, for the first time the invitation to participate at the Euro Summit, the Prime Minister will, of course, be in December at the Euro Summit, and I personally had the honour as Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia two days ago to be at the first meeting for us, the first meeting of the euro group on which we discussed not specifically the subject which we are now talking about or discussing but the wider context of the euro area. So the deepening of the European monetary union, which is the next steps towards deepening in terms of the banking union, is particularly important for Croatia, a very unique system of saving role insurance that is still not fully regulated, fiscal criteria and all that is important for us to be at the table, that our vote is heard, today, of course, tomorrow, when we introduce the euro. And just maybe the last observation we don't judge the time horizon, it's ahead of us, as we've said ourselves, quite a long way, we need to meet not only the economic but also the political criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56379	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56380	I thank the respected ministers for your response and I am glad that this Croatian government has managed to reverse numerous and financial and economic trends in its first year of office, especially this reduction in public debt and the reduction of the state budget deficit. These are important parameters because the reduction of public debt and deficits of the state budget is one of the main tasks of the Croatian government and this goal is not achieved in the short term to say it takes one longer, longer period to get the desired effects, i.e. the desired figures, because this must reflect one real state, one real growth of the Croatian economy, the real growth of Croatian citizens. So here I believe that this will probably lead to some of the necessary factors, I say, which can bring us closer to entering the euro area. I hope that this public debate on entering the euro area will also encourage those necessary reforms to be made, that perhaps we will come to that general social consensus to make those strategic reforms that could lead us to a better, better quality, more prosperous society. And we'll probably have a lot to talk about in this House and here in the general public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56381	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State. I will refer my question to Mrs Blaženko Divjak, Minister of Science and Education. Knowledge, curricula reform, education has really been talking about for years. We've been talking about this for over 20 years. That's proof and that knowledge really matters to us, that's a fact. And the fact is that knowledge is the only supply for our future, but unfortunately that's all we're talking about. And that's a lot of work done isn't. And we are all aware that we have not withdrawn funds from EU funds, that our young scientists, no matter how enthusiastic and eager to advance because of the lack of funds, because of the inability to achieve certain quality programmes, cannot progress, but unfortunately Croatia is at its very beginning. Here's today we've also had opportunities to hear in this assembly that nothing is happening on that plan. That there's nothing left to do, that it's all standing. So I would like to know what the situation is, or whether the curricula reform is implemented in accordance with the plan and the deadlines announced, and what measures and what reform processes have been implemented so far. To make it a concrete answer to see if it really works or if there are facts that are being placed in the media and still here in this assembly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56383	Thank you very much. Reply by the distinguished Minister of Science Blaženka Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56384	... I think it's an extremely important topic and it's important to be very clear about where we are, what we are doing and why we are doing it. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Of course, Croatia must also improve its education system and scientific system, in particular the higher education system, in order to have a chance on both economic and these processes that are part of the process of social development and to give equal opportunities to all students and students. As far as these specific issues are concerned, the curriculative reform is on the move. So what I can say so far is that of the 51 documents that were in the public debate on 44 documents is responsible for the basis of discussions and expert working groups, so expert working groups have responded to this, new documents have been prepared, sent, prepared and are in international reviews. We also include on the national topics of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. As for other processes, we expect these documents to be completed at the end of this year, and in the beginning of next year we will call for schools to report so that three to five percent of schools can participate in the pilot's implementation of the curricula reform in the following academic year. As far as funding is concerned, aside from the funding from the state budget, it is extremely hard to withdraw funds from the EU funds. In this way we have provided technical assistance of 3 million kunas in respect of the reviews and means teaching teachers and made a summary to draw from the European Social Fund the next 150 million kunas in the position of curricular reform. What is often left out of focus is vocational education. So the vocational education in which over 70% of our high school students participate, and the reforms are very weak in this area, the enrolments are weak and we have great needs in the labour market related to vocational education. So in this part, there is also a lot of work being done on new curriculas, including on new models a dual model of education. And what I would especially point out are the centres of competence. If we succeed with this programme, and I'm sure we will next year we will have 800 million kunas available for competence centres where every county I think has a good opportunity to withdraw funds for the centre of competence that is related to the vocational school, but which also gathers economic operators and gathers, means all those stakeholders who are able to present not only vocational education, but professional education connects with the labour market. As far as higher education is concerned, 360 million kunas have been withdrawn for 10 centres of excellence, centres of excellence which not only give an opportunity in strategic areas to develop science, but within these centres of excellence provide funds for the employment of 101 young scientists, which definitely means that 101 young families will remain in Croatia and thus contribute and extend to not only science, meaning in the scientific field. As I said in the area of higher education, there are also funds intended for internationalisation. Here, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, we end all preparations for the review of competitions, for internationalisation for professional practice in higher education and for further development of the Croatian qualification framework. I hope this data shows that it's very much working at the Ministry of Science and Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56385	Thank you. Dear representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56386	I'm happy because we've heard a lot of concrete information so I know that many of the things they write in the media and we hear don't stand. I am particularly glad that such investments are from primary school, secondary, higher education, and I was particularly pleased to hear about vocational schools. Because I think that right now from vocational schools, first and foremost, we're going to contribute to the development of our economy because at this point it's really critical. However, there is also a higher education in which we must invest because at the very beginning, when I was asking the question, I had just turned my attention to it and unfortunately the fact that we are on the very beginning in that part. I believe that in the coming year we will see even more concrete results and that our economies from this reform will get what they expect very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56387	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the distinguished representative Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, honourable members and members of the Government, fellow MPs. My question is for the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bosnjakovic, I believe, first today is about the reorganisation of the judicial system. A package of laws has been announced for the fourth quarter to amend, among other things, the Law on Courts and the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which should implement the announced merger of municipal and criminal courts. On the other hand, in the media, we have witnessed the dissatisfaction of the part of the profession as well as some units of local self-government that have expressed a desire to return, i.e. by retaining some courts in their area. So here, given this context, please answer the direction in which the reorganisation of the judiciary is planned in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56389	Thank you very much. The reply of the esteemed Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56390	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we have announced amendments to these laws that you have spoken of and a whole series of other laws and, in accordance with the plan of normative activities, we will refer them to the procedure. It is these two laws amending the Law on Courts and Laws on Areas and Courts that we will put into public debate very quickly because we are indeed at the very end of the drafting of their proposals. What exactly do we want to achieve by joining municipal and criminal courts? We want to solve a problem that's actually been bothering us for years, and that's the unequal burden of our judges in the system. We have now in the last few years such a trend in the criminal trial that the number of cases is significantly reduced and thus judges in the criminal courts are not as burdened as judges in other branches of courts. Today in the Republic of Croatia, we have 24 municipal courts with 794 judges. We also have 22 misdemeanor courts where we have 333 judges working in those courts. This burden is not equal, and by joining these municipal and criminal courts we will certainly get one human infusion into the system of municipal courts that are quite burdened, where we will get a new number of people who will be able to solve in those branches of courts, such as civil courts, as criminally. And at the same time, we're going to keep a criminal trial within the department of these misdemeanor courts. Also, we remember the characteristic of our network that was 10 years ago and over, it was a whole series of small courts with a number of judges from 1 to 5 and so let's say it didn't even allow specialization. If you don't have specialists, you don't have a quick procedure, you don't even have a quality decision, and we've brought this to a more decent level since 2010 by the first reorganisation there. But this is one phenomenon that really brings us one discrepancy into the system, that one of our judges is more burdened and one is significantly less. We have to sort of settle it, we have to put them all in function so that they can work equally, contribute equally. Statistical indicators, I don't have to repeat, but really over the last 10 years, things have really improved, we've had a million and a half unsolved cases, today it's under 500,000, and the trends are good. This is exactly the kind of measure I think we're going to contribute to, that the number of pending cases are actually reduced to the lowest possible level, to allow even more specialization of our judges, that the proceedings, so that within such courts, they go faster, to be more accurate and thus to be more quality. What you said about the pleasure or dissatisfaction of the profession, I have visited almost all the courts in Croatia so far, talked to all the presidents and we have not encountered negative reactions. In fact, the judges themselves welcome this measure, because within municipal courts and their perspective, the expert is much better and much bigger than it is today. Clearly, in the context of the merger of municipal and criminal powers, we will be able to do the network that is now, which is 22 municipal courts, that we will be able to spread it a little bit, so some things that may not work out the best way today. And that's what we're going to make in these new proposals, too. In addition to all of this, there are a number of measures that we want to raise this judiciary to a higher level, from a stronger introduction of information to all levels, to changes to other laws, so I believe this law will be good too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56391	Thank you very much. A fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56392	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your exhaustive response. I'm particularly glad you've apostrophe for this question of unequal burden. So that's one problem that exists in a lot of sectors and education is often mentioned in the field of health, but what's the problem, which is often used for manipulation, so some isolated cases, where there may be less burden than there should be, where the organisational system can be improved, used, to show up an entire sector, like, not working enough, that no one does anything, etc. So I'm glad to go in that direction so that the possibility of such objections is reduced by a minimum. I'm also glad that you mentioned this expansion of the network, because indeed, in some areas there is and there is a need for courts to exist at least certain levels. I am so glad to think of this evenly territorial distribution of courts, so that there will be improvements in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56393	Thank you. Let's move on, next up is a mess, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic and he asks his question to Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56394	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Maric, I have a question for you, but before I ask my question, I'll say some things about context. After a good 25, 30-year-old business of Agrokor and that whole concert, the banks said, Mr. Todorovic no longer has money for you. And now suddenly all those who, until just a few months ago, did not dare touch or touch Mr. Todorovic and his family and property suddenly know everything and are big advocates of solving the case. But it's better than never. We have witnessed recent months of numerous malfeasances and criminal acts for many of them we have known before. Some of us are just about to find out. Well, there's an interesting case of Smokvica Island, so no lease concession paid, no compensation paid for maritime well-being, it's estimated that only about 230 million kn could have been incomed. As early as 2007, everything was ready to charge about 30 million, for a five-year concession, it wasn't done. The issue of illegal use of bonuses is raised, the issue of HBOR credit is raised and we know from 2006-2016 that it has been possible to use HBOR's information. 25 loans granted by HBOR to the Agrokor concert firms amounting to 900 million kuna, from which to this day only 9. There are also falsified reports, etc., etc. So my question is, of all these malfeasances that I have listed and the person responsible for them, by the mayor, by the head, the minister, the head of the tax and all, will any of them answer? Or what you're doing is finding these people inside your portfolio who have been protecting everything that's been going on for years, or you're going to transfer it all to one of the culprits and that's Ivica Todoric. That's my question?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56395	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56396	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, I thank you very much for your comments, and on the matter, I am a minister of finance, I am not a judge, I am not part of a judicial system so that no one can be charged or tried or investigated. I can only say, so in the department of the Ministry of Finance and all that is related to our work, ever since I've been Minister of Finance, of course, I've been trying from all my services, management, to work and only professionally, without any political means, so to speak of involving in any subject, and so on, the one you're talking about. There have been a lot of speeches in the Croatian Parliament and that the Minister of Finance wants to abolish the tax leap, there have been a lot of speeches about how certain things seem to be, that this or that are appropriate, I think that we have just shown with our parts that everything is just not true. Of all the details you have mentioned, what I can only refer to, this is to mention HBOR credit or HBOR loans mainly in the term of office of my minister of finance or as chairman of the HBOR Supervisory Board. So, as in previous examples, I'm sure that I only have the right to believe that everything went the way it was supposed to, the information that we've received is exactly what we're suggesting, so analysis, credit committee, management, and then it came naturally to the Supervisory Committee for Consensus. I think that in public too, the tone record was presented, I am personally not happy and satisfied that it had to come to this, but since I was under the unfounded accusations of one of my former colleagues, it had to come out in public and it was confirmed that I was in those moments and we're talking about a time horizon which, long before the crisis in Agrokor itself broke out of debate and decision-making. So it was very clear that given my previous professional arrangement and engagement in Agrokor that I would be exempt in such situations. Also, as far as the IRS is concerned, I think we've been communicating in an adequate way, regardless of what was of course a lot of pressure and the public to break the IRS and say the details, I also said at that point that I couldn't talk about individual cases even though I removed the possibility of those speculations that were at the moment that it was some tax debt of about 6 billion kuna, which is certainly something which is a significant amount and I wouldn't believe it to anyone in the IRS just as such ignored. But what I always ask the IRS, and I will always ask them to do their job responsibly and professionally, to treat each taxpayer in the same way, and that's actually the way and modus that the IRS does. Of course, as head man of the ministry, you are certainly always inclined and determined not to say both the responsibilities and the smallest details of the ministry itself, but these are the principles and principles that we advocate at the very beginning along with our entire team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56397	My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56398	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Minister Maric, I am not at all satisfied with your answer, you are finished with that thesis no special treatments, all people do the best they can. I'm mostly using your data, so your data is that since 2002, the Office for Large Tax Debtants has been established, which accounts for around 600 taxpayers, 170 of which means there has been no tax supervision in those nearly 20 years, many of these companies are from Agrokor. We have here the structure of the Office of Great Taxenarians from the Ministry of Finance, we have here the head, the assistant head, the facility for large taxpayers in Osijek, Rijeka and Split, that I am not going through the whole structure. So I asked you, will you people specifically and numerous of these others in other cases ask what you've been doing, or haven't you done in the last twenty years? You may as well ask your colleague, Mr. Shucker, who sits next to you. For this 2007 Smokvica case when he was a minister or your associate, Mrs. Dalic, who is the successor of Mr. Shuker, why was there no concession in time, not for the state to suffer these and this amount of losses or to collect claims. When you last mentioned that there were no special treatments, just a day or two after that, or at that time there was one hearing between the Mamić brothers, it was a damage of about 130 million kuna to the state which the club did. You're responsible for the IRS. You're responsible for those people who were supposed to pay taxes. What's going to happen to these people, I didn't get that answer if nothing happened. If anything, then something. What you're about to do, I didn't get an answer. It seems that in the end only Ivica Todorovic will be responsible for everything and everyone else is nothing, nor guilty nor should they have done anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56399	Now let's move on to the next question. Dear counterpart Vlatko Kopic questions Health Minister Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56400	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, esteemed members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I refer my question to the Minister of Health of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Ministers according to the criteria of attractiveness and competitiveness, health tourism enters the takedown of potentially leading production groups in the Republic of Croatia. It's a product that today at global level shows above the average annual growth rate, about 15% to 20%. And trends in ageing populations and orientations to healthy life suggest that health tourism has the potential to become one of the main motives of travel. Croatia therefore has a number of comparative advantages for the successful development of health tourism. Among other things, close to the big regional market, intact nature, sea, climate, favourable prices compared to the EU, and a long tradition and a good reputation for the health sector. On the other hand, we have a problem with the long-term financial problem in the health system. So in this context, Mr. Minister, my question is how do you plan to position Croatian healthcare and health tourism and what is being done about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56401	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56402	Thank you very much, Mr. Kopić, and thank you very much for asking this question because you have actually asked a very important question, but in part you have elaborated on the Croatian situation. This government does make serious progress in this regard. Namely, health tourism, you have listed the comparative advantages of Croatia but has, above all, one comparative advantage, which is the work, knowledge and competence of Croatian healthcare professionals, which is very well recognised and what it is doing and now Minister of Tourism Capelli and myself and other members of the government, we have numerous contacts including a random coincidence that today, here in our Zagreb, the Korean-Croatian Health Forum with very serious interests in Croatian health tourism and the potential of Croatia. In this sense, not only the mentioned Korea but also other serious countries such as Canada, Germany, Saudi Arabia, not to mention, show just in the excellence that Croatian healthcare professionals and other comparative advantages of Croatia, great interest both in the coast and in the continent. There is also a change of laws to facilitate institutions so that they can easily enter arrangements and determine patients from other countries and make significant funds. It won't work overnight, but it opens up space and a great opportunity, where with excellent tourism, we heard at the beginning of today's session, there was a question about tourism, which are excellent results, I think we'll have not in such amounts in a year, but in an increasing chance of earning from health tourism. Another thing that is indeed to be commended is that countries, large, respectable, send, because they recognize in Croatian medicine quality, send their students to study medicine in Croatia, to specialize, to post doctoral studies. So for example, the Bavarian government, two years ago, you can look at it in... choose from the offers of the richest, most developed countries 30 of their best medical students to send to Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, when we put all of this into what this government's goal is, and that's every potential that opens up into the energy expression, i.e., profits, I think that Croatia will grow exponentially from year to year in earnings that will come from health tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56403	Thank you. A colleague, Kopić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56404	Here, Mr. Minister, I thank you for your answer. I agree with you that here, in the end, it is working to make health tourism one of the main levers in strengthening the overall health system and I am sure that you will have support not only for us who are active factors in the health system, but also for the general public. Well, on the contrary, I thank you again for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56405	We move on to the next question, it is a respected colleague, Franco Vidovic, who asks the question, Croatian Defence Minister Tomi Medvedu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56406	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, so 189 cars, 2015, were purchased in 2012 and 2013. 5 and 2016 105 cars serving as orthoepic aids to the most difficult Croatian military disabled in the first category. So they have the right to a new car based on the law every 7 years. Now you have opened a tender whose correctness we seriously suspect is the purchase of 220 cars. ... First category has HVO 473. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A total of 299 cars were purchased from 2012 to today. There's now a competition in progress that you've called for another 220 cars. That's a total of 519 cars. My question, do you purchase cars for HVO in this competition, i.e. for HRVI from HVO and if you can explain to us exactly who the 46 extra cars are intended for in relation to the total number of HRVIA first category.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56407	I'm asking Minister Bear for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56408	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, regarding your question, we have acted in accordance with the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family, where it is prescribed that a personal car with adequate adjustments for Croatian military people with damaged organisms of 100% of the first group. In accordance with the procurement plan and with its legal obligation, the Ministry began the procedure on 21.8.2017 at the estimated value of 28 million and 160 thousand kuna. For 136 Croatian wartime first group disableds after 7 years, for 86% of Croatian military disabled first group in the order of the Croatian Council of Defence, People's Protection and Civil Protection. Therefore, the procurement procedure after no supplier has met the conditions has been annulled and the ministry has launched a new procedure for the same matter of procurement within the short term, in order to comply with the legal provisions on the purchase of a vehicle for Croatian military disabled persons for the first groups in 2017. The opening of tenders was 30.10.2017. In the first call for tender, or, the procedure, as well as in the second procedure under way, it is prescribed that the delivery deadline is completed if all 220 vehicles are located at the warehouse of the manufacturer and the availability of representatives of the Croatian Defence Ministry for review. The whole procedure shall be carried out by the Specially Selected Commission and I fully remove any form of doubt in any form of counter-legislative action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56409	A colleague of Vidovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56410	Thank you, Mr. President. So, the Honorable Ministers didn't answer my question, so first of all, I'm not happy with your answer and I would ask you to answer my question in writing. The delivery deadline of 22 days, a 90% payment after a check-up at the supplier's warehouse, is practically different from the whole practice of getting a car so far. That's never happened before. You can turn your head, but that's a fact. And I don't doubt you personally, but I seriously doubt the corrupt nature of this contest. We in the SDP suspect the corrupt nature of this contest. Therefore, we will continue to do what we have done so far, we will warn the public, we will address all competent institutions as we have already filed in the first step a request for control of the Ministry of Economy, the Public Procurement Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56411	The 36th question of a respected colleague, Davor Vlaovic, points it to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56412	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, Minister, Minister. I welcome everything on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club and, on my behalf and here I welcome and approach to be responsible for leading the Republic of Croatia, we also bring in the Parliament and you in the Government laws that will be implemented for the benefit of all citizens, to raise the standard of citizens, the confidence of citizens in the government, in you and that we all live better. Unfortunately, more than 70% of citizens think that Croatia is not going in the right direction because they have not yet felt these good intentions in their home budget, because they are still young and their parents older go outside the Republic of Croatia. There are still no new jobs and quality of life in Slavonia since the announced project was announced, and these days a new blow to these home budgets along with drought, an elemental disaster that has been declared in most counties especially Slavonian where the damages are more than 500 million kuna. Contracts with bus, transport and railway undertakings are signed these days. We welcome that 295 million kuna is provided for this purpose, that the government co-finances 75% of this transport through the Ministry. At a meeting of the government in Knin, you made a decision that there should be no difference in the price of workers, monthly tickets and students. Do you know what the situation is on the ground? Quite the opposite. For example, the municipality of Velika Kopanica 1100 kuna is either 1300 price of pupils and 528 workers. Nothing was done on this plan, and the additional weight is that municipalities and cities not only in Brod-Posavia but also in general have no money to co-finance the 25% difference with families but will now spill over on families that do not have income in Slavonia and Baranja anyway, and we expect you to do something about it and help every student to go to school.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56413	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56414	Thank you very much for in fact very positive comments from my colleague Vlaović. I am pleased to see you thinking this way since we are in the same political family of the European People's Party and as far as HDZ is concerned, the door to the HSS is open. That's what I want to say one more time, especially when you're doing this constructively. As far as the student cards are concerned, we reacted very quickly this summer, faster than usual, and I think it was very good, and already in August if there is any discrimination at local level that is contrary to what we have made as a decision, the Ministry of Science and Technology will see with these units of local self-government to see how we can solve this issue. I'm sorry if there's such a big difference, because these are really big differences. It seems to me to be an example in Kopanica if I've caught more than 500 kuna well and it's a significant blow to the home budget and it can't be such a big difference. Well, here's what I'm going to do, with the help of Minister Divjak, is try to give you a written answer as to how we can react to this particular problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56415	Here's a statement from my colleague Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56416	Thank you for your response, but here on behalf of dissatisfied citizens, it is not settled until today because the school year has already moved well, and they are rightly concerned about how to send their child to school. Put yourself in the position of a man who works at a private minimum wage company of 2620 kuna because you did not accept the initiative to raise that minimum wage, and entrepreneurs themselves will not do so. And if I pay 528 kuna a working monthly ticket because he must travel to Slavonski Brod and if there are two additional 600 kunas he has nothing to pay from if he thinks, stay in Velika Kopanica. So, to have for the bus to Slavonski Brod. We need to find a way to pay for it. The municipalities have no money in their budget 200, 300 million kuna as much as they should for this purpose and in this way we only give them even more motive to get on the bus not to Slavonski Brod but to Germany still. I think this must be stopped, and especially since this 75% is not 75% but only 50% for the distance of Orahovica – Slatina's student who buys travels from Orahovica to Slatina, that's 25 km. The ministry co-finances 75% to 800 kuna, because that's how it's prescribed and the map costs 1300 kuna. So it's not 600 kunas that they pay, it's 1,000. Either make order among the carriers that these tickets are really appropriate or equal to the workers or the opportunity is now what we are going to suggest in the rebalancing to increase these 20, 30 million kunas for this purpose and make a step forward to co-finance all 100% of the transportation of high school students in order to enable everyone to study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56417	Let's move on. The next is respected counterpart Josip Boris, and he asks the question of the minister of the sea, transport, infrastructure to Mr Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56418	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, Minister and Minister. I will ask my question to the Minister of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure Mr. Oleg Butkovic. Dear Ministers as well as I know I come from islands and islands, the islanders certainly need both the state's help and care to compensate, to solve their problems and solve the specificities of life in these areas of the Republic of Croatia. As responsible politicians, I'm glad we have more representatives from the island in Parliament. We have a minister in the government who's an islander. And the Prime Minister has origins from the island. It's a good platform that we can care about, that care is one good platform that we can care about, that care to our islanders. I thank the government and the Ministry for bringing back the island administration. It's something we lost during the SDP government and I think it's a good move and a good start because here we see already this year that the resources for the development of the island have increased, for support, for subsidies. But in addition to this, the Ministry of Regional Development is important to us and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, because the transport connection between the island and the island with the mainland is always a problem for the islanders. Safe port, a good, comfortable ferry that can pass all weather troubles, a fast catamaran, that's what the islanders of us and you ministers expect. My question to you is what the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure and you as Minister are doing on the matter of transporting the island to each other and the island to the mainland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56419	Minister Butkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56420	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. It is true that there is insufficient traffic availability of the island with land, directly affects the quality of life of the island population and also affects the fact that people will stay on the islands or have to go some other way. The government of the Republic of Croatia, headed by Prime Minister Mr. Plenkovic, insists on exactly and places special emphasis on activities and investments that will enable islanders to have better quality of life, easier access to services and ultimately encourage people to choose the islands further as their home. For example, last week we signed a high-speed line, the 2016 agreement on fast-board, joint financing of the high-speed, state-speed line from Pula via Lošinj to Zadar, which was precisely by the government's decision of 2016 that this line was not the case until this signing. At that signing were also representatives of three counties, cities, which is one good example that together and in cooperation with counties, cities, islands and coasts we can conclude in such an agreement and help to maintain such useful lines and we will use such an example in the future. I also remind you that in the next 2018, we envisaged 310 million kunas to encourage regular maritime, passenger and high-speed lines, which is an increase compared to previous years. I also remind you that during this year, the Coastal Line Transport Agency has conducted extensive line maintenance tenders, with 8 profitable and 11 state fast-board and 20 ships, and on all these lines, an increase of even 8.6% of passengers and 9.3% of vehicles has been achieved in the first seven months of this year. All those assets I'm talking about aren't enough and they're not the only ones. Because it is also important for us to invest in port infrastructure, so in 2017 we have provided 53.5 million kuna for investments in county and state ports. And this is a good and commendable project that we have for the first time this year since we have brought the State aid programme for the development of ports opened for public transport, for the first time we have opened up the possibility of using 80 million euros of grants that are first made available to us for precisely island integration and for the construction of port infrastructure in the coast and on the islands. We have issued this public call on 31 October, it will be open for a year and here is the opportunity, we have identified about 28 projects in all coastal counties that they are already being prepared and here I expect by the end of this year and the signing of these grants. Here's all I mentioned was proof that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Sea, in cooperation with other ministries, is taking care of the islands and is of great importance to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56421	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56422	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I thank you for your response. I thank you for these projects because we think they are very good and contribute to what is important to us, and this is the traffic connection between the island and the mainland, along with the new Island Act, which is in preparation with the new operational programme for the Croatian islands, along with this operational programme for the construction of ports makes a good platform for the development of the island in the future. And what's most important is not only for survival but for the rest of life on our islands. I want you to persist in these measures and in these projects not because we need to say it here but because some of these projects just don't have and we need them as islanders. If we had them, we shouldn't build them, but unfortunately we don't have them and we need projects. I think that this government, with what we said we'd take care of the islands, about the islanders that we're on a good path and that we're creating a good platform that needs to ensure the survival and survival of life on the islands in four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56423	Thank you. Last question. Dear Representative Marko Vesligaj, the question raises to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56424	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So the counties in the northern Republic of Croatia, Krapina-Zagreska, Međimurska and Varazdinska will soon join you and Bjelovarska-Bilogorska and Koprivnica-križevnica have actually sent you a proposal for a single project which they have called north after the example of a similar project that your Government has initiated refers to the Slavonia which we all support. We understand that we need to support Slavonia. So, the aim of this project is that, in addition to the large infrastructure projects that are ready in these mentioned counties that have been extremely active in the field of design, it also has an impact on the reduction of pay gaps in the average salaries that exist in this area of Croatia compared to the national average. So they are 18% less than they are in the rest of Croatia, and the reason is, of course, the strong industry that survived. I will primarily highlight the textile industry. I'll also point out the shoe industry. So my question is, in fact, did you foresee any changes in tax policies that would nevertheless affect the reduction of the gap so that workers working in these industries would feel this benefits of the economic growth that you have listed here? I would also like to know what you have provided for this state budget from these infrastructure projects for funding in 2018. And are you also going to try to compensate for the damage to the natural disasters that were also very large in this part of Croatia especially on agricultural crops? So that's the damage to the cold, the damage to the fights that may not have been as media-accompanied as these floods and fires in Dalmatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56425	The Prime Minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56426	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Vesligaj, of course I am familiar with the initiative of our counties from northern Croatia, northwestern Croatia on the fact that in a more concrete way, projects that are relevant for the development of the north of Croatia are being brought together. I think this initiative is very good, and as far as I understand it, both Bjelovar-Bilogor and Koprivnica-Kristevnica County are interested. As far as the natural disasters are concerned, we have now raised the amount from 20 to 100 million kuna from the budget funds of the Ministry of Agriculture and the existing lines already a whole series of support is given as regards the resolution of not only drought, fighting, floods, fires and all that has hit us this year. I know that a great deal of these disasters were also in the northwestern districts. When it comes to projects, in particular infrastructure projects, it seems to me that you can be extremely satisfied with the Transport Development Strategy of Croatia where all the relevant directions are whether they refer to road or rail infrastructure, and much of these activities have been advanced. I am particularly thinking about this ring in Zagreb, but on the north side of Zagreb, it is our goal, of course, that road gets all the way to Popovac, and in this way to clear this main route of highway that goes from we can tell the Krapina towards Zagreb and later towards Slavonia in relation to what the situation is today. When it comes to the textile industry, I agree with you. It is an industry that is particularly present in Krapina-Zagorje County, it is also present in Varazdinska, and in Međimurje and we know that there is a pay problem in the industry. It's an industry with maybe the lowest wages where people live on the verge of dignity. And I think that this year, as we did last year, we're going to take a step in increasing the minimum wage as much as we can, of course. And as for tax reform and all the effects it has brought, they are indeed positive, a huge number of people in Croatia, unfortunately they were not visible to those who had the least income. You know that yourself because they're both exempt from income tax anyway. Therefore, with the measures we are taking towards the north of Croatia whether it is about infrastructure, whether it is about salaries in those sectors that have the lowest wage for years, whether it is about realising financial resources for projects from public-private partnerships concerning schools, this is particularly important for the Varazdin County and Koprivnica-Cristevačka, the Government will change the law that is currently in public consultation to make a legal basis for the service of those obligations in the years ahead and thus solve the problems that have been open for years. We're here as partners. You know that my government has started practice to meet every six months with all the mayors, with the presidents of the city associations, the community associations. This dialogue is extremely useful when laws are being developed to ensure that the system of financing local and regional self-government is improved. It seems to me that through that forum we have also received feedback, and all units of local and regional self-government have seen in a timely manner what direction the Government is heading. And on the other hand, I believe that through this practice, the benefits will be shared in better quality finding solutions that are for the well-being and county, both cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56427	Thank you. Here you go, my fellow Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56428	Thank you, Prime Minister. Well, I'll say I'm not happy with your answer. Unfortunately for your reforms, which you have listed only 3% of citizens have some concrete benefits, and so these are the richest citizens. Unfortunately, these citizens are very, very few in these counties that I mentioned to the north of Croatia because they are primarily export-oriented. So that's where people work mostly in production. And this problem that I mentioned, which is support to the textile industry, and you yourself listed it in your government's program, you have a chapter where re-industriousization stands, so it says exactly that you're going to support and encourage many industries. Among other things there is the textile industry. Unfortunately, we haven't had any concrete moves yet. The second thing, what you mentioned, is certainly to praise that some of the important infrastructure projects are included in the strategy, and that must also be said. Here's hoping that the Ministry, in fact, will give your government and, of course, the Ministry of Regional Development one due attention to this project north that this will not remain one dead letter on paper. I suggest at least one concrete step to establish also a Security Council for Croatia, similar to what you set up for Slavonia. So, let's not hear any more from the ministry of this kind of news like we've heard these days, which is that we're breaking a rough public procurement law. So today it is confirmed by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, but that we have one real, regional development that will take care of all Croatian areas evenly. So I repeat again, no one is against the Slavonia Project, however, Slavonia should be helped, Slavonia is in a difficult situation but we should not therefore punish other parts of Croatia, north of Croatia. It also needs even greater encouragement because it is the whole of Croatia that draws Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56429	And we move on to the last question of a respected colleague, Hrvoj Zekanovic. He is directed by the minister of demographics, family, youth and social policy, Mrs. Nadi Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56430	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Minister, Ministers! I will ask the question of the Minister of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Minister Murganic, and I will dare say, and as the last question comes to us, a topic that is most important to our country, most important to Croatia. It's a matter of demographics. As I believe we all know, Croatia is still facing a very large natural decline, faced with a negative migration balance, which ultimately results in a total decline in the number of inhabitants. Those who don't know, the figures are catastophal, we had 4 million 784 inhabitants in 1991, and in 2011, we had 4 million 284 thousand inhabitants. The projections for today are that Croatia has only about four million inhabitants, some demographics claim there are fewer. I must commend the measures taken by the ministry so far, and above all the maternity benefits, it is the demographic measures through tax reform, but I am interested in what other measures of demographic policy that the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to implement in the next period. Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56431	Minister Murganic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56432	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow ministers, and above all MPs and MPs, I welcome you and thank you very much for the question of why you yourself said that demographic restoration is one of the most important tasks of this government, and we hear from these debates that there are indeed many. The foundation of both economic and regional and rural development. However, what you yourself have seen here, demographic data is really very bad and we love all of us in politics to use that kind of sound word, the phonebooks, are really disastrous. But what should also always be reminded that we had been abandoning and not keeping track for years, and that demographic breakdown didn't happen yesterday or last year, but was about to happen for decades. Indeed, for years, it's a low birth rate, for years natural growth is negative, we've been a very old nation for years. And what has hit us since 2013, and I have been a representative in the Parliament, when I had opportunities in discussions and in 2014 and 2015, and I have said and warned that all of these negative trends have been joined by the trend of emigration. The government, this government has drawn up demographic revitalisation as one of its most important tasks and organised it through the Ministry, so through the Ministry of Demography and through the interresor council, the Council for Demographic Revitalisation, chaired by the prime minister. What we would like to say is that our actions and activities are aimed at several directions, measures that are related to the most intelligent policy, which have such importance and are aimed at strengthening the family, the family is placed in the focus of the centres and social communities and as a centre where they can be created, born, raised young, healthy people, and one of these tasks is to strengthen the family through a social and economic position. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Birth and Parental Compensation is one of which, for nine years, did not move or increase maternity and parental benefits, and you yourself mentioned that the taste of subsidies through housing credit, through tax reforms, went in this direction. What we're planning now, and it has this demographic, innovative omen, and that's an amendment to the Law of Supplement on Children, where increasing income censorship will have one greater comprehensive, than a hundred thousand families, so it will have the possibility of getting more than it is now a child's allowance, and thus also a practical supplement. Coordination of family and business life through kindergartens and through the capacity of kindergartens, but also the shift of kindergartens, one quality and smart and migration policy, the return of emigration. And what would be extremely important is that in all our activities we promote that economic developmentists understand the importance of hiring a working effective population in the areas that are exposed to eviction and accelerated aging, all the measures implemented by equal regional development.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56433	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56434	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56435	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56436	Thank you for your response. I'm happy with the answer, but since it's one very important subject, never enough. I am pleased that the Ministry is keeping an eye on, and that indeed many financial measures of demographic policy are being considered here and that they will be implemented soon, but I would suggest here that, besides these financial measures, they also have those non-financial measures to work on. I'd say that none of us who are parents created children because of incentives for child support or for some benefits, for tax relief. In other words, what we need as a society, I would dare say one spiritual renewal or to realize that without children, this nation or state has no future and to create an atmosphere in society that the child is welcome or that this is currently the top priority of Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56437	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is the current morning that's over. I would like to thank all the representatives and MPs who participated in the debate, the Prime Minister, members and members of the Government for their answers. I'm setting a break now. We continue at 15:00 Report on the meeting of the European Council held on 19 and 20 October 2017 in Brussels, submitted by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. MEETING IN 14.02 HOURS So let's move on to the first item of the agenda today. That's one. Report on the meeting of the European Council, held on 19 and 20 October 2017 in Brussels - applicant: Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report in accordance with Article 11. Law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. Once again, I welcome the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, and I ask him to submit an opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56439	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. Allow me today to hold another presentation on two meetings of the European Council that have been in the past weeks. The first to take place in Tallinn on September 29th was dedicated to digital society, the digital economy, and the second formal 19th and 20th of this year in Brussels. A few words first of all about this last meeting, which was relevant and interesting in substance and is useful for representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament to be fully informed about both the discussions and the conclusions of this meeting at the top. First of all, I would like to say that, at the beginning of the meeting, we heard the presentation of President Antonio Tajani of the European Parliament, who, from the point of view of the representative body and the representative institution of the EU, delivered key political messages at the current moment, and of course, they mainly refer to the topic which is the focus of the European Parliament's attention, which was also the issue of migration which was the first topic of the agenda. What we have jointly concluded is that, over the past year and a half, there has been a significant reduction in migration pressure on EU Member States, and particularly on the Eastern Mediterranean route, but also on the medium-Mediterranean direction, which in recent months has seen a significantly smaller number of illegal entry. This is primarily the reason for increased EU activity towards Libya, the country's main inflow of migrants on the route. What is crucial is that during the debate we have found it necessary to step up cooperation with the countries of Africa and the countries and Maghreb as well as with the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. This is why the EU-Africa summit will be held at the end of November. There is a special EU Fund for Africa where we seek to help affected countries through financial means to establish mechanisms at their national level to help prevent illegal migration. The government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision two weeks ago to invest 200,000 euros in the fund. I also want to link this to our National Development Cooperation Strategy, which she spoke more about today during the current hour of Prime Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric, a strategy that we adopted at the end of September and which is a framework for those funds that Croatia points to in different parts of the world to have its own meaning, its additional value and its message that is... our interests are in the activities of the organisations to which we are members. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to say that we have also discussed further strengthening the protection of the EU's external border. Above all, further measures under the Schengen acquis, and for Croatia, it is like a country that prepares to enter Schengen especially important that at this stage, after we practically consumed almost 100% of the funds available to us in the financial envelope during the accession negotiations, so we spent 97% of the funds over 117m euros. Now, at the stage of a thorough evaluation of the European Commission services, we are going towards the goal of making further efforts and progress during 2018, and to meet all technical criteria during 2019, when Croatia is ready to expect a political decision, therefore, at the level of the Council institution on Croatia's accession to the Schengen area. This is our ambition and our goal, I think it would be extremely important for Croatia, would have a major impact on relations with neighbouring EU members, and I believe it would benefit, of course, economic effects, especially during the tourist season. On this side, we will seek to meet these objectives, I am putting a small reserve here, given that Bulgaria and Romania have been EU members since 2007, and unfortunately still have not been able to agree to the other members' approval and decision to enter the Schengen area. It is important to note that, on the basis of different legal persons in Croatia, the basis so far, 78 persons have been transferred, 60 from Greece and 18 from Italy, and 59 persons have been transferred for the last 5 months, and the Government has made a decision 5.10 in order to be ready to accept up to 100 people during 2018. It's about people currently in Turkey. In this way we show the operational, principle of solidarity and sharing responsibility for the migration refugee crisis that has been with us on the agenda for the last few years. When it comes to issues relating to digital Europe, I would first of all like to point out that in Brussels, we heard a presentation, which our colleague from Estonia, as EU Chairman Yuri Ratas, presented and gave a summary of all that we discussed in late September. The importance of digitisation for innovation, for growth, for employment, and for contributing to the global competitiveness of EU member states has been a key topic of this debate. In particular, the emphasis is placed on fully digitising governments and public sectors, then building a legislative framework for a future-oriented common approach to cybersecurity, the compatibility of labour and education markets, the importance of investment, and research and development, as well as the recognition of emerging trends, and the creation of an effective and fair taxation system in the context of the digital economy. On the other hand, the examples called for in the current development of Estonia are inspiring, and we can freely say that neither Croatia, with its achievements through the system of e-citizens, is lagging behind through the system of e-recepts in the health system, even forerunners in front of some other members of the Union. The third topic we discussed was security and defence issues. And I especially want to make progress on the preparation of so-called. permanent structure of cooperation in the area of defence. Croatia, tomorrow we will adopt appropriate documents as a legal assumption that we are one of those Member States, which wants closer and deeper co-operation in the area of defence. We will be among 21 Member States at this moment, which will join this co-operation at the Joint Foreign Affairs Council and the Defence Council next week. It is about that 1 segment of enhanced co-operation, therefore, deeper integration and thus, following a thorough analysis and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we believe that this new form of military defence cooperation, based on the Lisbon Treaty, allows Member States to take systematic steps towards a more coherent, security and defence policy that will enable us to have a better quality, shared face-to-face with security threats. As well as participation in various EU security missions. All this is happening in the context of the new national security strategy adopted here by the Croatian Parliament before the summer, which shows that our focus on strengthening all activities both at national and international level, concerning defence and security issues, has a very clear and recognizable thread and the link between interactions. This is particularly important for Croatia, because of the opportunities available to our defence industry, because it is this technological base in the domain of co-operation in the security defence policy at this point that is in the focus of the Member States. That part of the debate also mentioned European civil protection co-operation where Croatia is, I believe, that you noticed 10 days ago once again adhering to our neighbouring country of Italy, where we responded very quickly to the Italian government's demands and sent two canadians who were voting fires near Turin, so they flew from Genoa's direction towards the interior of Italy and several days along with Italian pilots and Italian planes gave another concrete contribution to co-operation at the level of civil protection in the EU. Foreign policy topics were discussed as usual during the European Council's evening hours, the key topics were Turkey, Iran and the situation in Korea. At that point, the tension was particularly expressed in Korea, so we largely unisonly established a very clear and firm condemnation of the activities of the Korean, North Korean regime, of course. As for Iran, the EU's position on a comprehensive agreement reached two years ago is still strong and clear and there is no change on that side. But when it comes to Turkey, it seems to me that the debate was the most interesting and particularly important for us, given that Turkey is not only a member of the North Atlantic Alliance but also one of the most influential countries in both Southeast Europe and throughout its neighbourhood where Member States' positions are quite different. What I have advocated is one approach that allows for continued dialogue with Turkey, especially in light of future refugee migration crises and insisting on respecting the 2016 agreement between Turkey and the EU. He is of strategic importance to Croatia. We are not among those members who would also make formal decisions on a complete suspension of accession negotiations. It should be recalled that Croatia and Turkey began accession negotiations on the same day 2005, the 3rd and 4th of October in Luxembourg, and it is important to understand what most colleagues, I must admit at that time, did not know because none of them were in the European Council at the time, and since then it has been 12 years that the negotiating framework with Turkey is not the same, i.e. When the negotiating framework for Croatia was adopted, it was clear that its goal was to become a member while the negotiating framework for Turkey was adopted in December 2004, it left the possibility of these negotiations and not ending with Turkey's EU membership. Taking into account the bilateral, quality relations between Croatia and Turkey, I believe that the position I put there at the end and prevailed did not come up with any sudden decisions that would affect the dynamics of the negotiating process but agreed that Turkey should meet the many criteria ahead of it, there are 72 of them, and that the accession process should be used for various transformational effects on the internal plan. The most interesting and most innovative part of the European Council was dedicated to a document drawn up by the President of the European Council of Tusk, which, you remember, was here with us about the 25th anniversary of Croatia's international recognition, which prepared a new framework which so far did not exist, a document called Leader's Agenda, so a programme of leaders, which clearly indicates a hodogram of key activities from October to about mid- 2019, so in time after the next European elections. On this side, it is up to the heads of state and government to focus this highest EU body on practical solutions to the real solutions of citizens in EU member states. That it is important to go step by step in resolving open issues and that it is essential to maintain the unity of the Member States. Here is a proposed new methodological approach to work, there will be specially prepared documents to be carried out by the Secretariat of the European Council where, for specific topics, the heads of state and government will be able to discuss future decisions in a slightly different way than so far, so with a kind of climbing of topics and decisions with levels of other Council formations. Why am I saying that? I am saying this because the debate on this topic was essentially the fruit of an informal dinner in Tallinn, which from my experience as a man who now for about a year on about 9 of these different European councils had a certain experience was perhaps the most useful and constructive so far. During September, the different leaders of the Member States gave several reference speeches to the public. The speech by Jean Claude Juncker in the European Parliament on the state of the Union was, in my court, the kind of legacy of the Juncker Commission. He presented everything this commission has done in its work so far and what should be done in the legislative programme of action for the next year and a half days. He went so far that even since this is certainly his last term at European institutions level, he is also going towards joining the current roles of the Presidents of the European Council and of the President of the European Commission. A very brave move for the head of the European Commission. Many remained a little surprised by the directness of the proposal. At the same time, Theresa May gave her speech in Florence, which is practically the United Kingdom's will on its membership in the EU. There are no dilemmas that the Brexit theme will be a kind of semi-negative or in any case downside debate on Europe for the next few years, we can say it freely. It also shows from the point of view that it is in a very invisible position where it is exposed to a number of internal political pressures and that the time available is approximately until the end of March 2019, when the deadline for the conclusion of the negotiations under Article 50 does not come to an end. And the key progress in the negotiations concerns not only the rights of EU citizens in the United Kingdom or the citizens of the United Kingdom in EU member states but, above all, the financial package that has proved to be much more expensive today, much more demanding and much more complex than the various manipulations during the referendum debate presented to the public by the Member States and where the cost of the United Kingdom itself will be significantly greater. And that is why Michel Barnier, as chief negotiator, was unable to find adequate progress in the negotiations and the decision on the new stage of the Brexit negotiations was left for December and for the council, which will be on December 14th and 15th. A particularly inspiring speech was given by French President Macron, who deliberately and deliberately used the word sovereignty on Sorbonne and connected it with Europe, felt good by any Member State, felt the atmosphere that currently exists in connection with the European project and sought to inhale a new enthusiasm with his activities. So in the context of Therese May's will, in the context of the Juncker Commission's legacy, of a new energy he still practically lives in the fashion that the campaign is under way, it is very obvious when you talk to him when you listen to him, trying to convey a part of that enthusiasm he managed to win at the Presidential and later subsequently and in elections for the National Assembly, also to transfer him to European institutions. And all of that, those three moments, needs to be linked to the election results in Germany. The elections in Germany have made in my opinion a very clear consequence of the indications we saw in the European elections in 2014. So the alternative for Germany is that it received 7 MPs in the European Parliament which was precedentd, until then it never happened, now from zero they jumped to 92. At 92 in Bundestag. And the fact that as you yourself follow is forcing the German Chancellor who is the relative winner of the election to a new type of coalition, to cooperate between the CDU, the CSU, the Liberal and the Greens and their negotiations on coalitions are extremely complex, long-term and demanding a lot of time, gives me the impression that we will remain in the next two years in a single divide between French enthusiasm and German realism. And that in this process that is ahead of us, above all, it will be important not to fall into the trap of new institutional changes, and above all I mean basic contracts and that European institutions must concentrate on the maximum use of policies and budgetary resources and measures available. That's what's obvious at this point and what I think a real consensus of other countries in Europe is about right now. At the same time, the situation in Spain spells Spain we can freely say focused on our problems. The situation in Poland and the debate on the rule of law mechanism that would eventually have to or could have been applied to Poland, also make that large country in a very specific position at the moment. So, looking at the major major countries, the largest distributors in the European budget, each one is almost at a completely different stage, and in such circumstances it will be important that the EU's middle or smaller members are placed at this point. For this reason, with deep conviction, I believe that this very context of the circumstances is important for Croatia to show where we want to be. Any distance 27 plus 1 or 28 minus 1, for countries our size would be minus. And the whole debate, the whole idea of our action that like Juncker's guardian of the contract, to make Tusk our guardian of the format. And in this way countries like Croatia that are objectively in the most special position because it is the most recent, 4 and a half years will soon be, not yet in Schengen, not in the Euro zone, makes us a country which via facts does not participate in certain integration processes and essentially reduces our maneuvering space. That is why I believe that insisting on Schengen and this whole debate that we launched ten days ago on the strategy for the introduction of the euro into Croatia is important. We need two large, broad, European frameworks that give us both the goal and ambition in the next years and I want to make it clear, so 2019 is ready for Schengen. The 2020 European Course Mechanism and then sometime by the end of the term of office of the next Government by the year 2000. A period if we are willing to meet the criteria for accepting the euro area with signals such as this through enhanced structured cooperation in the defence area, such as our participation in the establishment of the European Prosecutor's Office, we show ambition and we show membership. And by retaining a format that would prevent a kind of directory of what the small Member States are most afraid of for us would be a success and would be a goal for us. And it seems to me, at this point, that such a contentious and interesting debate at European level should be one of the most important topics and the Croatian public, and then the Croatian Parliament. I would say that we are now in a situation where the European Union will hold several important summits by the end of the year – the social summit in Gothenburg next week, then the summit of the Eastern Partnership in Brussels, the EU summit Africa in Abidjan, a climate summit at the Macron Initiative in Paris and for us a particularly important European Council and also a summit of the Eurozone where we were first invited to participate. So, for the first time, we received an invitation to participate at the Eurozone Summit, which means that what we do has an echo and is recognised at the level of European institutions. This is the framework of our government's European policy. We want to regularly represent this policy here with MPs and MPs and get support for it. I think we're going in a direction which is the continuation of that key political consensus in Europe that we've had since the beginning of 2000 to membership. At this point in time, with all the reasoned debate, I believe that most political parties will recognise the usefulness of these objectives and our intensive action on their achievement. Of course, in this process we will also seek to address various bilateral issues that we have with Member States or with some other countries. But this framework from our perspective, from the perspective of the government at this point, seems important and most importantly realistic in terms of achieving within deadlines that we are not based on analysis, based on assessments and all that we are doing in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56440	I thank the Prime Minister. We have 10 replicas. The first is a respected colleague of Sladolev's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, I will look back on the 9-month meeting in Tallinn this year where you in one country, such as Estonia, which went further into digitalisation throughout the European Union, praised the establishment of one Digitalisation Office. However, I believe that setting up an office is not enough for digitisation in society. I'm going to quote you, we're working on expanding the range of services in the system of e-Citizens, which is why we're saving money and time significantly. Just to remind you, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds issued a public call in July 2016 for the development of EU services of total value of 532 million kuna and until today, no single kuna for digitisation in the ministry and agencies has been withdrawn as part of that limited call. Also, an e-business project worth 45 million kuna prepared at the time of Minister Kovacic also does not stand. As of today, almost 180 days have passed without a move in signing a financing contract, so I'd like to ask you where you care and what about these projects during the MOST Ministers who were in government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56442	You want it now or what? You can end up all at once, or when?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56443	Okay, let me say a few words. These projects have nothing to do with the meetings of the European Council, an esteemed colleague. There is no discussion about any project relating to the withdrawal of funds from any country. It is discussed at the European Council on policy direction and legislative activities. That's what heads of state and government do for you. How about now, if each of them were to boast about individual projects or to refer to whether we were able to withdraw funds in one or another ministry. It is a general issue of the absorption of European funds where things are speeding up, where procedures are simplified, where you heard in the end line on a number of occasions what they are about. And as far as I know, MOST has been strong for digital society and for everything that has to do with the digital economy. We can focus on the contribution of the Central State Office, which is a new body that works, which encourages that thing but is not the only one. There are also a number of other institutions in the Republic of Croatia that need to contribute. And as for the absorption of funds, we need to accelerate it horizontally both with these projects and with others, because we are in the middle of a financial perspective. And you saw it in the end line in the projections of the budget. The level of ambition must be higher than it's ever been before. And that is why all the competent ministers will have this in the end line on closed cabinet sessions very clear instructions from those who are behind to speed up their activities by including projects that may have started at the time of some other ministers. These are all Croatian projects and are in general interest. So we're on the same track here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56444	Second replica, dear colleague Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56445	Here's my thanks to the President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's the prime minister in this report we see two interesting things. One of the interesting things is more theoretical and should not be burdened by this Croatian Parliament, although I will say that this is about two extremes. For example, we find out from this report what the challenges of migration and migration policy are today, and on the other hand we see that there is one at the end of militarization of society and that a new platform is being built that must not rest on any dogma of defence and the danger of the security of the society in which we live but is indeed a theoretical challenge to question the paradigm of multiculturalism and global society. So it's something that will go and that's certainly a process that doesn't necessarily have to end and result in bad consequences, rather than creating a global and more human society. This report, since the Croatian Parliament is also a challenge for national policies in some kind of limbic state, does not belong to time or eon. So let me explain, we are in the fourth industrial civilization, the revolution. The 4th Industrial Revolution is a revolution that will produce a new layer of the poor, it post-op. This post-op will affect all those simple occupations today from traders to postmen, for example, and I wonder how we are nationalally considering the strategies that we economies represent to prevent this new post-operation of society. Furthermore, it is said about the development of STEM areas, but today in Croatia we only have scholarships for the first three years of STEM students, although the studies last five years, so please take care of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56446	Thank you. Do you want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56447	If I understand you correctly, you are talking about the militarization of Croatian society, European society, which society? Did you mean European or Croatian, just to be exact, I know what you mean? A colleague? European? Okay. If it's a European office. I think that the trend of strengthening cooperation in defence and security with co-operation related to internal affairs and the judiciary over the past 25 years can be freely said by Maastricht has made the greatest progress of all areas of cooperation. All the others were more or less very well consolidated. This has made the greatest progress and the contractual provisions themselves are in terms of collective security and automation of action in the vicinity of Article 5. Washington contract, we need to be aware of that. So the EU is eventually becoming a defence community, it should be said openly, it is a fact, and this step towards continued structured co-operation in the domain of defence is part of that process, and that is how it is consensually so, it is drawn up by a series of decisions of earlier European councils and it is expected in these global situations of security threats. The EU is present in many parts of the world and is working to be a safety distributor. Croatia contributes to this. What is important is that this year we put on the table strategic documents that were few we can tell us not sufficiently updated. They are here on the table, in 2002 and 2017, certainly not the same atmosphere, and that is why it seems to me that in this area we have made the right steps, both in budgetary terms and in terms of our contribution to global security. On that side we can be satisfied, I'm very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56448	Thank you. Third replica, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56449	Thank you very much. Dear Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. I have heard from you now that you have been on the European Council and that all flowers there, that Croatia has entered many associations, you have discussed digital Europe, where we will engage in digitisation, you have debated security. However, the fact is I will tell you, you have the manners of a Brussels man, diplomats and you communicate well, but first of all I will tell you in the beginning, you must protect the dignity of the Croatian prime minister. Your inclination and orientation, don't let me go there now. Well, you can't... in front of the cameras in that way that snaps your ass, Juncker, so the whole world's seen it, so don't turn around. What's going to work in four walls, off the wall, I'm not getting into that space, but I can't let anyone in. Croatian Prime Minister that in that way any member of the European... /The speaker is excluded./... [[Adversity President: colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56450	Comrade Bull, just a little please. Your insinuations are untasteful. So I'm asking you to stick to the subject and not go down to such a low level here's just please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56451	Well, then send the recommendation through Mr. Juncker's directive to the President of the Commission, not to me, I didn't do it, and I'm not going in because I've said neither orientation nor inclination nor who's going to do what. However, the Croatian prime minister is the Croatian prime minister. Here I go from the president, you can give me back the time I couldn't say. Here's what the president said today, she said enough, the Croatian village empty, two-thirds of Croatia is empty, people don't have textbooks, children don't have organised transportation, it's empty Croatia. Tell that to Juncker loudly And use relations and your manners in the interest of the Republic of Croatia... /The speaker is disabled./... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56452	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56453	Your Honor, mayor, I'm sorry, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj. I have to admit, I can see that you and Mr. Pernar were the only ones who saw what happened there, right? Come on, tell me what's going on, come on. You say it, Ivan. ... He came up, and here I have to admit, I'm trying, but I don't have eyes on my back, and I'm having a hard time seeing what's going on behind me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As much as you put it in the context of the Croatian Prime Minister's dignity with these cetins of illusions on proclivities and orientations, we record all of it, we follow, we follow, we follow, we follow my colleague Miro, we follow all of it. Juncker is a very big, very nice man for you. If you knew him, and you didn't know him, then you would realize that he is the only living institution currently in the EU, the only man there was when the contract was signed and the Mastricht, the only one who has the institutional knowledge of the building of the EU out of all the people who are leading it today, he's impressed there, and he's happy, sweet, he's kissing. Remember what he did to his colleague Milanovic, remember those photos? You don't remember, the move for the jacket is quite less than what he did to some other colleagues, but it's his style and believe it almost nobody experiences it dramatically, everyone learns it and they experience it with sympathy and with a single dose of relaxation after spending about 20 hours with the same people without going out in the air for a minute. It's a context for you, I understand that you can't understand it the way I see it, but, well, it's important that the public knows, so there's no pinching, just moving for the jacket. Ask my security guys, they know, they even watched as far as they'd go, they said they could.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56454	Next up, dear colleague Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56455	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, Mr Plenkovic, my replica goes, is related to your first part of the presentation and the first part of the report i.e. migration. To be more specific, it's refugees or to be even more specific about the distribution of refugees, which has the most disagreement. The leaders of the Member States have taken the view that by next summer, this problem will be resolved. It seems rather ambitious to me. In that sense... He wants complete control of the external borders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means, in another way, increased control of migrant routes, in order to allow for a rapid reaction in the event of any change. Or to be even more specific, it means that it wants to close the route across the Mediterranean Sea, thus sending more money to North Africa. And you have stated from the report that the Republic of Croatia has paid or intends to pay 20 thousand euros in this regard. Now, my particular question is, what exactly are the financial obligations of the Republic of Croatia which it is willing to take to support third countries in order to address this migrant crisis? And as it says in the report, how much more financial obligations does Croatia want or can take over, as you stated in the report?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56456	Thank you very much. Here, I'll just tell you that Italy itself, so the first neighbours, they've given 93 million euros so far, 93 million euros has been given by Italy. Slovenia gave 50 grand, I think. A few other countries that are about our size have given or a little less or a little more than we have. We gave the gesture, so 200 thousand euros is big money of course, but it's not that big for the state in terms of aid for the fund exactly for that continent, for those members from where the inflow is likely in the years ahead that are clear. And that is why strengthening institutions, strengthening our development policy, avoiding failed states, strengthening external border control, all the joint projects we have in the Mediterranean are how Croatia can contribute. Because you take care, the current focus of most migrants is on large countries, on Western countries, old member states, rich countries for cultural reasons, financial reasons, social givings, language closeness for many countries, and finally some easier inclusion in society because in many Western countries there are people who have come from different continents before in different waves and come to so-called. We can call it a family reunion. Croatia belongs to Middle Eastern European countries that are not from our immediate neighbourhood, for example. Our friends from BiH or some other country just don't. There's no one in the Visegrad group. And that's why the nuance we're working on is to take our proper burden in solidarity. And that's the policy we implement in accordance with economic strength and possibilities. We're not running away from shared responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56457	Thank you. Now it's time for your esteemed colleague Panenic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56458	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, of course, the conclusions that, I think, and the talks you are having concern the general principles of EU policymaking, however, here you are explaining to us also to the citizens. So then I would also relate to the topic that you had there on the council around digital Europe where here I'm going to say, it was that digitization offered immense opportunities for innovation of growth, opening up new places where the key assumption was actually building a communication network infrastructure. However, when we come into the context of Croatia that we have then we actually see key dangers, which is that the network is not available to all citizens, that it is available in larger urban environments and neither there and in rural areas it is quite neglected. We are here at the beginning of practically the EU and then essentially the question is how to reach the Agenda that set 2020 as a target where everyone should have access to these networks. We also have a situation where internet access prices and such systems are very high. So we have two restrictions that we are dealing with, so here, I would also like to hear from your views about how we will respond to this challenge, whether Europe, apart from formal only financial assistance, can contribute to the adoption of Croatian policies. In fact, necessity, rapid construction and achievement of these goals. I know that 2020 is very close, but our political instability doesn't mean that we don't have to provide it to our citizens, so here we would like to ask your comment on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56459	Here you go. You won't. Okay, then let's move on. Dear colleague Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56460	Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, here is my replica regarding that part of the safety report. So by the end of the year, the EU wants to hit the foundations of the common defence policy. And concrete plans are to be established in December of this year and to remove any disagreements. One of the plans is to connect Member States with each other in the development of the defence industry in terms of strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the sector, technical coordination of defence forces and coordination of their development. This will likely require an increase in the national budgets of the countries participating in the project. It is clear from this point on that Europe is going at a higher speed. Those who can pay will also be part of a joint civil military co-operation project. What position of the Republic of Croatia can be taken in that case at all? Giving up in modernity in the making of security defence decisions and making decisions on the allocation and purpose of the funds to be paid into the common, security defence budget or to assume the obligation to participate the military forces of the Republic of Croatia in joint projects and so on? Is co-operation in this new form, military co-operation in accordance with the constitution, is it contrary to NATO's commitments? Did Croatia even apply for participation in the project? The position of the Republic of Croatia which you represented is positive, undefined. So, what you mean by the notion of involvement, complementarity and voluntary participation in accordance with the possibilities. What about those who won't be able to get involved? Will they also be complementary and in fact what will happen to those whose opportunities will not meet EU requirements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56461	Here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56462	Thank you very much, President. Dear Representatives of Strenja Linic. So, you probably listened to part of my opening statement when I said that we would have a formal decision in the government tomorrow, which Croatia intends to access to enhanced structured defence and security co-operation. It would be wrong to conclude what you say the EU will lay the foundations of defence co-operation in December this year. The foundations of defence cooperation have been adapted for 25 years. I will take them every year in a series of aspects in a series of measures that exist on the basis of the contract and on the basis of budgets and concrete activities. There is no but not a minimum element that would be contrary to the obligations with the Republic of Croatia as allies under the North Atlantic Treaty. On the contrary, all these activities are mutually complementary, coordinated and the idea of enhanced co-operation should enable better co-operation between the EU and NATO, which is often due to, as we ourselves know in that format called Berlin or Berlin plus, which is the issue of Turkey, being more intense and less naturally directed towards each other than would be normal given the similarity and closeness of the organisation. As regards the aspect relating to both the Croatian Constitution and the fact that we have ratified the accession treaty in this House in a consensus referendum, in 2012, there are no legal obstacles which, by such a gesture, would have taken the ultra source of what is now permitted by our legal regulations, on the contrary, it is exclusively about the implementation and further strengthening of the cooperation that we have adopted as well as such legally and supported earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56463	Let's move on, dear fellow Downhill. Here's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56464	Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. In your presentation and report, you mentioned the new programme of the President of the European Council of Mr Tusk, which you discussed. And a kind of hologram of activities and topics that would be discussed for the next 2 years, i.e., less until the next parliamentary elections for the European Parliament. One of the topics mentioned is possible changes in the election or in the European Parliament. Since the British delegation will leave the European Parliament, so 73 MPs are less. Of course, there are certain possibilities that are offered by more variants. I would ask you, for which you are of the three variants that may potentially arise and which are being debated. One variant, to reduce the current European Parliament's 751 seats, by that number, to make it smaller, more efficient and cheaper for the EU and to actually be more efficient. The second option is that these places are simply distributed to all other countries and that their quotas are increased. Or the third variant now proposed to create some supranational list of 50 MPs, also presented by French President Macrone, who advocates a whole new idea of further federalisation and transnational lists. Personally you, as Prime Minister and at meetings of the European Council, for which of these three options will you stand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56465	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56466	Thank you very much, President. Dear Representative Podolnjak, it is true that the number of MPs, as it is right now, and that is 751 will undoubtedly decrease. How much is it going to shrink? That's the only open question at this point. There are Member States that advocate that Parliament loses the United Kingdom's composition, which is 73 MPs, so 751 minus 73. From my experience, I don't think it's good enough for a country like Croatia. There's a big difference whether there's 11 or 12 of us, a big difference, there's a large number of committees. Under the new rules, those who are not members of the Committee cannot submit amendments to different reports on committees. Well, let's just say that since I got back here, no one has, your member of the Constitution that I've been in, and then they couldn't properly participate in the debate in the committee's report... otherwise the committee president who made one concept along with other colleagues who are about to limit the future composition of the European Parliament to 700 MPs. According to that logic, Croatia would get another representative. So the degressive proportionality system would give us 12 MPs, that's one better than at this point. Some large members would be a little compensated for what they believe to be in a subordinate position at the moment, so take care that a single representative is elected from a large Member State, we do not talk about going to the elections behind it, but sometimes over 800,000 people stand for voters. When it comes to Croatia, it's about a little less than 40,000, that's a big difference, that's a huge difference. I'm sorry, $400,000. I'm sorry. These are huge differences and large members are experiencing very badly. We are in favour of an increase, but an increase that would be moderate and that would be about to hold parliament to 700, and this transnational list, I don't think it's a mature atmosphere yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56467	Let's move on. 8th replica of the esteemed colleague Glaveshevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56468	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. My replica concerns that part of your report you're talking about discussing digital Europe. The text of the report itself states that most of the debate concerned a fair and effective system of taxation of digital services. In this sense, I wonder if there were any concrete examples, let's say whether there were some similar services about sharing economy, services such as Uber in Croatia, and now recently there have been some similar services, and whether there were talks about cryptic currencies and if there were any in the Government thinking about how such services could be taxed. We had an actual one a few months ago, you'll remember for sure, there were protests about Uber, so I think maybe that's one question we'd like to hear more about. And if nothing else, and then as some kind of initiative, maybe for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56469	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56470	As far as digital currencies are concerned, it wasn't a debate this time. As far as Uber is concerned, he mentioned himself informally. As you know, we'll go with a new bill, but I think we have to go after the concept where the rules of the game are equal for everyone. This must be the key principle behind which we stand, and then the market will determine how many services in a particular sector it needs. What was the most interesting debate, and perhaps you're seeing a lot of follow-up, so perhaps you've read this week's Economist, the most discussed was the impact of digital society on democracy and on institutions. Now that is already a question perhaps for another thematic debate that we have also positive but also a lot of negative aspects. I'd like to say first of all the shortness of relevance of any event. Without this report, who in Croatia would have mentioned the Digital Summit in Tallinn, which was approximately 35 days ago. No one will mention it in Lithuania or Latvia, let alone elsewhere. So the speed of communication is so high that in a certain way it weakens the strength of institutional verticals, it literally weakens them. And that is, among other things, why there are certain trends in elections at national European or local level, and I see that most leaders are dealing with this problem in their own way. No one's found a recipe yet, but I think it's a huge challenge for the 21st century democracy because we're still in the adjustment phase, and we don't understand how fast we have to adapt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56471	The 9th replica of the esteemed colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56472	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister. My replica is related to Brexit, which has already become a standard subject of the European Council. But before that, I would like to look back on that suspicion you raised this morning about the European orientation of the SDP. So make sure that the SDP remains firmly on the European pathway and will be part of the European consensus. But if we question critically certain government moves in the European context or the secrets of their adoption, it does not mean that we are not for a European project, we are doing this to make maximum use of our membership to the benefit of the Croatian state and Croatian citizens and contribute to the European project. Brexit, many Croatian citizens live in the UK, whether they study, work or are on a third basis there. All of them would like to know what their status and rights will be after the disunity. But it seems that the commission has persistently puts issues that are important to Brussels first in its tactics, and only then further leaves for a later phase of negotiations with the British, a question of the future and the status of people, as well as Croatian citizens in the UK. What I am interested in is whether you will continue to support such a European Commission's tactics in negotiations with the British, or will you demand that the issues of European citizens' status, as well as Croatian citizens in Great Britain, be raised on the list of priorities and that it is finally started and discussed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56473	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56474	Thank you very much. I am very glad that you have restored your commitment to SDP to the European path of Croatia and the EU at all. I believe that you certainly have some party meetings, colleges or at least coffee, so I expect from you and other colleagues who have some experience in the accession process, some experience in diplomacy, some experience in international organisations that these colleagues of yours who do not have that experience and do not despise the release of diametrically opposed messages to inform them, sensitize them, that would be very useful, very good for you first of all. Croatia will remain firmly anchored in the European project and it would be good for the SDP to be on the road as it was last decade. And as far as we're concerned, cooperation with Mr. Mimic is very solid, but I had to step out today in view of everything your party president is saying without talking about the euro. But Brexit, three packages of issues focus in the same way and with the same interest by Michel Barnier, are one of the status issues of the citizens I was talking about, the other being the issue of Northern Ireland, and the third is the financial package. Keep in mind that the Irish constitution, so the Republic of Ireland says that the Republic of Ireland is the island of Ireland. It's the constitution of Ireland. Few people know that, but it's an interesting fact about which it's not irrelevant to take care of in circumstances where an artistic frontier is now becoming something completely different. And on that side, the processes that take place within northern Ireland itself are currently politically very sensitive, very sensitive. And on that side, Barnier and the others have to take care. For us, the key question of status is that our citizens have the same treatment as the others, and we have ensured that within the negotiating framework a year ago when Barnier was here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56475	Thank you. Now let's go to the last line, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56476	I would like to address you with the Croatian prime minister or prime minister of the Croatian government, but unfortunately I see that you do not represent the interests of our citizens, and here is simple evidence. 59% of our citizens are against the introduction into Croatia of the euro and the abolition of our kuna currency. In this process of disseminating the statehood that goes parallel to the convergence or integration in the EU, you have decided against the will of most citizens to abolish our currency. In the same way, you did the same thing when you forced the real estate tax that the people with detested. I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister if you may have said in Brussels what the will of the Croatian people is, that citizens do not want to collect, or do you intend to repeat the mantra on how the introduction of the euro will not cause the collection and will not lead to the fall of the standard of living even though it has led anywhere where the euro was introduced. I want to know when you will start telling the truth, I want to know when this persistent ignoring of the will of citizens will stop because what you are doing is not in the spirit of democracy, it is against democracy, it is a denial of the will of citizens and the fact that you have ignored calls for a referendum even though you are aware that most citizens do not want the introduction of the euro you have actually admitted that you are aware that your project would fail to introduce the euro and that in fact this government has no more legitimacy because it is not supported by 75% of the citizens and the majority that supports it in the Assembly is all but not collected in a fair way. Have you discussed this with the European Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56477	The answer is not a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56478	Mild Croatia with the Living Wall and Mr. Pernar. Really mild to us, so much demagogy, so much false information, so much false, so much manipulation, persuasion of inaccuracy, fooling people who listen to what you're saying. It's every chance for me, and I have to admit if I'm always with something here somehow affected by the continuity of the way you perform. First of all, you know very little of the facts. Do you know if in the accession contract Croatia has taken the obligation to be part of both the Schengen area and the euro area, do you think it is true or not? Bravo. ... [[Pernar: Your Excellency is true.]] Bravo. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And do you think a democratic referendum on EU membership has been held in Croatia? It's not? [[Intruder Pernar: No.]] Okay. There was no public debate? [[Intruder Pernar: There was no public debate.]] Well, you know what, Mr. Pernar, fortunately there are us here who remember a little longer, who are a little older, who have invested a little more in their time, their education, their public, professional, political engagement, in topics that are useful for Croatian society and that in a reasoned debate today when we are in EU membership 4.5 years later have political forces like yours that are typical demagogue, protesting, populist movements that exist elsewhere, which are related to this topic that I just spoke about in the context of the impact of digitization on democracy and we will deal with you. That's not a problem for me. But what is important is that Croatian people, the Croatian public understands and distinguishes exactly from incorrect. And that will ultimately separate our patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56479	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the replica, so we now move to the first debate on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB-respected counterpart Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56480	... Respected Prime Ministers with their associates. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I read in your report on the European Council meeting in Brussels on 19 and 20 October and the contribution of the leader and the conclusions of the digital meeting at the summit. At first, I was not a supporter, I was skeptical, we feel that we are not prepared enough as a country to join the EU, however, the citizens and my people decided to come in and I have no choice but to accept it as a fact. And now after four years I have some I won't say dilemmas but more and more I come to the conclusion that being where we are is a fact and the worst version is being where we are and not being and not acting like we are. And that's something we see today at this meeting. What's good here tonight is that for the first time we have these topics, is it because people are unhappy or people are uninterested or what isn't so attractive to the public, that we see a relatively decent debate, decent questions except for certain exceptions, but I don't want to talk about it. You've listed a few topics here that have been discussed. The first topic was migration. In this part, I would not like to go into detail, in this part I like the position of the Republic of Croatia which you have presented, which is that the Republic of Croatia supports a comprehensive and common European agreement on migration challenges. That part is extremely balanced, politically correct, and I really don't find any, I speak for our club, I speak with full conviction, I find no grudges. I am particularly pleased that you are in favour of this attitude towards Turkey and the implementation of such agreements with third countries. So take care not of populist ideas but of something really important. The second topic I would most like to talk about is the digital Europe already mentioned. I can see about digital Europe that there's been a lot of talk and it's extremely important and I'm going to be here for a while. So, several conclusions have been adopted, including 7 conclusions, which are important for governments and the public sector to fully digitise and that is absolutely acceptable and good. The second conclusion is that the legislative framework turns to a future that will ensure equality for all, extremely good, common access to cybersecurity. This is extremely important, however, when we talk about cybersecurity, then I would like to see voices in this House that you don't have to hear, but I think it would be good to present in certain places how we too are experiencing this security. So when we talk about security, then we talk about global security, cyber security, but also individual security. The entire EU is not alone for economic reasons, it has also been created for both security and country and individual, so I think that an individual should be spoken of. The labour and education market adapted to the digital age should be developed, further efforts to invest in research and development, hastily address the upcoming trends, an efficient and just system of taxation adapted to the digital age, and I agree with that, but understanding of the problem of certain side effects that digitalisation can lead to if it comes down to market economy alone as a market-related problem. If that doesn't matter, I think we can get into tech I'd say totalitarianism. In order for that to not happen, we must take care of it now and quote one great expert in the field of digital technology, one Indian, cannot remember the name, but he literally said: “ Science would defile itself if its ultimate goal was the technology of society.” Keeping in mind how much digitisation or technologicalisation of society can affect personal freedom is extremely important. It is important for digitisation to be a function of technological development, job creation, functionality, but not to forget man in all of this. You here in this segment say that the Republic of Croatia supports the European Commission's initiative, to ensure better education and training of the skills of experts, and to prevent their outflows in Europe. It is perfectly fine and I agree with that and will plan to grant 17000 rate scholarships totalling more than 180 million kunas. That's very good, and I support that. I would only ask you as a Croatian diameter at these meetings to take this one, take care of this segment that I'm talking about. Because the world, seeking efficiency in the economic sphere, in achieving economic goals, forgets that the current world is in crisis, wars, dissatisfaction, uncertainty, because it is not, that this moral aspect is lost. If digitization happens to take over everything, then even ethical principles don't apply to anything anymore. Because ethical principles, then they're in the function of digitization and precisely economic growth. It's something to take care of. I support absolutely this statement of yours on the security and defence and inclusion of Croatia in this concept of security and defence, so I will also mention these canadians. You see, Croatia is a country that has an enormously large number of these vessels, given the number of inhabitants and its size. This security when it comes to fire protection can, in certain measures, increase the activation of other resources, not only by technology but also by simpler procedures. External relations, which have spoken, I love this very much, the attitude towards Turkey and these countries of North Sahara Africa. It is a very interesting story about working breakfast on the theme of the programme of leaders and this agency of leaders for the period until June 2019. It seems to me to be in an organisational sense and in terms of efficiency, a very good measure, so I support it. And finally, you said in the end, that the EU place, and I said that I was thinking about the EU, but we are here, you said that we are a small country and we are. Let's not kid ourselves. Let's just take the fact that 40 million Kurds live in relatively compact space and have no state of their own. We are fortunate to have received it within a large community, knowing how to fight for our interests, I think it's our only solution. Therefore, we support this report and would only add to those who seek reasons for disagreement, one statement, one smart man who said, nothing more dangerous than giving authority to those who have no responsibility for making decisions. You have a responsibility to make decisions, and I think, most of them in this House that support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56481	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Professor, I'm one of those who always advocates digitization, but your basic message, as I understand it, is that in the vast digitization that we don't neglect a man. And I completely agree with you, you're absolutely right. But on the other hand, the world around us is digitized strongly, and it digitizes more and more. And we're like a country, a lot behind us compared to everything around us. And what's always bothering us, besides, is that we want to get something, and then we make some more radical steps, so somewhere we do good, somewhere worse, we pull somewhere, we stop somewhere, education, lack of knowledge. And the fundamental problem in digitization and the question of not losing a man in this digitization is education and knowledge. The problem of digitisation and Croatia is that we are fundamentally uneducated. From kindergarten to this House, if you will. We simply, as a society, do not understand these phenomena very well. We don't teach our children the blue world around us in schools. When kids learn about disks, hard drives, and computers, believe me, it's bullshit today. Today is information, the Internet on Facebook. No one at school teaches children about the dangers of the Internet and Facebook. This Internet is more dangerous for children today than the streets, than roads and traffic, believe me. There's a better chance that someone who gets hurt will be needed on the Internet alone than on the street. And today we look like we're taking out all the auto-schools and the complete education system and getting driver's licenses and letting all the people who have cars, buy cars, drive cars however they want. That's what we look like when you look at the aspect of the Internet, kids and everything. First of all, we must start to radically change and begin to educate ourselves. And with education there will be digitisation and be sure in this aspect you will not lose a man. Here I am, sorry and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56483	Dear Representative Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56484	I'm glad you agree that there is a side effect of digitization. When I was talking about introducing digitalization, I wasn't talking about not introducing it, but about taking care of it. If countries that are much more digitized are faced with the same problem that I'm talking about now, then I just want to say that that's what needs to be thought about. So there's no dilemma. Digitalize the state administration, digitise everything that needs to be digitized, absolutely educate children but also prevent the opportunities and dangers that bring digitalisation as much as possible. It's impossible to prevent it completely, but take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56485	Thank you. And the next replica is the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Dodig's actually my replica to you, then my comment is on a very similar trail as my colleague Paric. So the digitization of this famous word cannot be reduced to just buying computers, putting them in front of people whether they are in the state administration or in schools, but above all someone has to work with them. Otherwise we'll get something from jokes, so you've probably seen what happens when someone has a modern computer and then stands on top of a pill. So it's one of our basic objections to that increase in the curriculative reform budget that concerns exactly the purchase of computers. But it's dyspression. So the other thing I'd like to say is about the scholarships that you've listed and talked about by a colleague from MOST earlier. So these scholarships are only for the stem area, and let's say, a colleague of Tudjman is from the Department of Information Sciences at the Faculty of Information in Zagreb, who deals with very similar things that are very much in place in these processes which are very much in place and which can very much contribute to Croatia entering the digital era and that this famous 4 0 economy lives in Croatia, but for colleagues with information sciences there is no such scholarships. So here's if that's what it is, if I'm allowed a little bit of academic patriotism, so I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56487	Here's a response from Honorable Representative Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56488	Here's a little bit. You haven't actually told me anything new. I mentioned it, the world is in crisis because of lack of ethical standards. It wouldn't be good if digitisation took over that space, which is why digitisation is very useful but it must not be ignored by these social sciences and what they mean in the education of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56489	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the voice and HSU on behalf of which the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56490	I thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister with the State Secretary. These European Council reports of yours are, I think I said this last time very useful because they give us the opportunity to discuss in the Assembly and then at least to some extent in front of the Croatian public these topics that are unusually important, they concern us directly and very often in this House they are treated as abstract and something far away for which we do not have too much responsibility and which we do not have much to do with. I will try to comment and ask some questions about the topics that you have raised and which are presented in your Report from the European Council and from these additional meetings that seem particularly interesting to me, especially this meeting of leaders, that is, this Agenda that Tusk has proposed and that I will say something about in the end, and I think it is one warning for us but when we get to that topic. So I'm going to go through the topics you listed and the ones you discussed, migration. Of course, all these topics are interesting for us, not the topic in general, often, many and many places are debated than were the Croatian position in this debate because it is potentially, of course, withdrawing directives and rules in which we will also participate physically, whether respecting the laws, whether financially. As far as migration is concerned, it said that Croatia is ready to contribute more financially to the return policy and strengthening the capacity of third countries to retain therefore potential migrants and to the return of people who are therefore illegal immigrants who are being returned from Europe. You stated in your statement that Croatia has committed to 200,000 euros in the fund for Africa. I don't think that's a bad move, that's a good move, but I'm curious about where those 200,000 euros came from. Is this 200,000 euros since you called for the foreign minister's presentation today in Parliament, is that 200 thousand euros in the fund for Africa from money, or part of the development cooperation budget? Because I would say that if this is money from the fund for, from the part envisaged for development cooperation, development cooperation for Croatia is, in my opinion, a very important job and a different task, the different purpose and purpose of development cooperation than this joint European initiative to prevent or end illegal migration. In addition, most of the pressure on Europe by these migration waves, as it is called the migration wave in 2015 and in early 2016, are refugees, so the people of Syria and Iraq who have largely escaped from war conditions and then have more to do with the European engagement on the situation in Syria in the first place and the halting of the conflict in Syria than it does with illegal migrants. And the whole deal with Turkey is more about refugees than illegal migrants. So if you can say something on that subject, then one, from where is that 200,000 euros permanent, one-time, or it's going to repeat itself and whether it's from our development cooperation or from another source. And whether it's a debate on migrants and whether it's from our development cooperation or from some other source. And whether the debate on migrants and whether the European Union had a tendency to de facto catch on to this beauty that some EU members promote, which is that a total corps of people who have come to Europe in recent years is declared to be migrants when we know that a huge number of these people are actually refugees from war areas that, if there were no war, would not even come to Europe and where Europe has a certain diplomatic and perhaps other obligations to participate in solving these problems. And the final question regarding the assumption that, for example, the Fund for Africa will be used for various projects that will enable the employment or remaining of people who actually come as illegal immigrants from Africa to Europe. Croatia currently has a Commissioner, therefore a member of the European Commission in charge of development and who, by 2020, had as much as I remember 72 billion euros available for development aid. Are we working together, or are we coordinating in some way, even the little money that we're investing in, which is certainly not so small for us, whether we're coordinating with our own commissioner sitting there on these issues. Most of all, the huge activity of his resor is right in Africa, so in those countries most illegal migrants come from. Croatia could have this, too, and I would say a rather visible and transparent role of what this cooperation is and whether something is coordinated in any way. And last on this subject, what about those quotas? You mentioned some numbers that are much smaller than those of the quotas that have been discussed, against which many particularly Eastern European countries have rebelled. I simply ask that because I don't know if it gave up where Croatia had something more than 1000 people who were supposed to come from other countries, whether it gave up and instead this is what you were talking about or whether both are still on the agenda. That's the question, 'cause I just don't know. The second topic you were talking about, which your colleagues here were talking about, is digital Europe. Even from this debate here as far as it can be understood, it's obvious that two key issues are here on the agenda. One thing is cyber security or what it's called here, I don't know if it's the right word cyber security, so cyber security. A lot of colleagues have talked about this. Lately, over the last two years or a half, it has been shown to what extent it is an important topic for the overall maintenance of modern democracies or for me to be more precise in modern liberal democracies. I reiterate here that, for liberal democracy, I do not mean the liberal parties, so both conservative and socialist and various other parties. Everything works in liberal democracies in that original sense of the word. So to what extent the lack of cyber security can affect elections not in small countries, but in large countries potentially, and let alone in small ones as we are, to what extent small countries can be instrumentalised as it has proved to be in the case of one work in Macedonia, they can be instrumentalised in such situations and what is therefore, in which we have this insight into our own situation and the world, that de facto, total elections, total referendums, total public decision-making, is strongly subject to different interventions precisely in... So, use of so-called [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Big data and what Cambridge analysts did, if possible in large European, see Great Britain, first tried on Brexit and the second saw the United States. If possible in such countries, what do we know about it in our country? Another topic that seems important to me about digital Europe is the taxation system, colleagues have talked about it, Europe has experience with both Microsoft and Google. The difficulty of these large providers showing up who are de facto not paying taxes, to simplify the whole situation. The Commission has intervened on several occasions, but obviously, there is a need to intervene in the regulation in order to avoid such situations. The third topic you've been talking about is security and defense. I don't have much to say. I agree, I think European security should be strengthened. I think Angela Merkel was right, when she said we were alone now. In other words, we need to be careful how we defend ourselves and how we organise a common defense, but in that sense we need to coordinate. I'm gonna jump in, 'cause I can see my time is running out. So, Turkey, it's a big problem, and at the same time, it's terribly important right now. And what is regardless of all the remarks that Europe has in my opinion justified and which we have, is what is promised, and that is what Turkey explicitly cited as a figure, which is 8 billion euros for refugees is probably one obligation that should be respected and respected, so if you want from one of the narrowly viewed European interests in these relations. All the rest I think may be the subject of debate and Turkey is probably one topic on which to insist is more visa liberalisation, and everything else is, in my opinion, less, in the focus of Turkish authorities now, but the money of this should probably be given, if we understand, what happened between 2012 and 2015 and, of course, insisting on an agreement with Iran and reflecting an agreement with Iran, because I think it would be an absolute disaster to give up. It was nice to see who you were having bilateral conversations with. In fact, Europe at this time, no matter what we think, is divided and what we would like to think, which would be diplomatically expressed, is divided into 2 Europe, one is Merkel Macron Europe, and the other is Kaczynski, Orban Europe. Kaczynian Orban Europe is also a liberal democracy, and that's why I mentioned it at the beginning. So, what would... He called terror the majority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, we have mastered populist politics, to go to elections and deepen the majority. But we don't recognise minority rights, we don't recognise civil human rights as untouchable spheres, so none of what the liberal values of the 18th century, or, or, that starts with, the 18th century. And on the other hand, Merkel Macron, a policy that sees Europe, as some Europe of the future and in a Europe where freedom is still with everything else a key fact, a key category. And since I see that you have also met with the President of the Council of Tulska but also with Mrs Merkel and Macron, etc. And finally only one sentence related to a joint meeting of leaders on this initiative of the future. It speaks of plans by mid- 2019. Croatia begins presidency in January 2020 Are we preparing and could the Parliament somehow participate in these preparations? [[We've already exceeded our time.]] My opinion is that you should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56491	Thank you very much, please hold on to the time. And we have replicas, and I thank you for your first word, which caused the replica of the distinguished representative, Ivan Pernar, so he'll be the first to speak his own line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56492	Thank you, Your Honor. I remember Vesna Pusic's words when she said, I don't want to be too cruel, but if we don't join the EU, you won't get pensions. Those words can be called legally... means the first lie, i.e. the first lie. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the first lie, yours was, in fact, the intimidation of the citizens, and ultimately, if I'm not mistaken, just Vladimir Seks changed the Constitution in a way that does not require half the majority of voters, that Croatia loses its sovereignty. And now, in cooperation with you, as the famous person who worked on... Croatian statehood and gentlemen of HDZ who are also working together with you, what is the credibility of your words, as much as you can be trusted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, I'm curious whether you'll ever apologize to the Croatian people for false thesis that if they don't enter the EU, that there will be no pension or perhaps today you are convinced of the truth of your claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56493	Thank you. Answer, dear MP Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56494	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Pernar, for giving me the chance, so then that was an assumption, today it's obvious it's a fact. So, without economic growth, without a successful economy, there's no way that the generation of my say, which is the greatest age cohort gets pensions. Therefore, with more than 60% of the export area for Croatian products entering the EU, with the economic growth that has finally started and started through that entry into the EU, so today it is clear that this is so, without economic growth, we will not be able to meet our obligations. The question of how much and how much will we be able to do this because we need more economic growth to be able to do it. As for the breakup of the Croatian state, I believe I am absolutely my whole life in politics that began briefly in '89, 90, but then actually '98. For example, building a Croatian state. Smart, human, humanitarian, human rights, and I'm going to continue anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56495	Thank you. It's clear to me that you had a need to say that, but my colleague Pernar left the hall that moment when you started talking, I guess that's what you wanted to say to the public. But the next replica is the esteemed representative Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pusic, in fact this final comment was in a very similar spirit to my question today, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. In fact, I really agree with you that there is a very legitimate concern, the concern that we will be prepared adequately for the EU presidency. I asked the minister today a question she unfortunately did not answer specifically enough, but it's not just a matter of preparation in human resources, it's not just a matter of preparing to buy limos in which we can drive the most officials without someone to forgive, shoot or otherwise harm them. That's the question above all I'd say a political agenda that I think is a consensus. In fact, on the trail of what you said finally, we see that Estonia has put a digital agenda for priorities. I think there is so much that Croatia can choose to be our agenda but it really takes some consensus and some very broad debate. The Parliament can certainly, agree with you in this work, help and participate but also much wider, much wider the same. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56497	The honourable representative Pusic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56498	Thank you very much. So thank you for having the opportunity to say a little more in detail now, namely on this list of topics that the countries have reserved for their chairmanships, it is clear that Bulgaria, which presides a year before us, has taken on its topic of the Western Balkans. This is usually one of our few comparative advantages, with this in the area we have some influence and some influence we can have in the future from that point of view we are relevant to the EU. Do we have any idea which topic, that's a political issue, a political issue, because that's what we need to agree on and determine what our policy is. So, do we think that Western Balkan countries should become EU members, whether this is the topic with which we will perform as the presidency country or which we will put on the agenda or another. The question of people is also a key question. Our Parliament is I do not know how the Government and the Ministry, our Parliament is completely unprepared for the presidency, no one has any idea what will be the subject, what will be on the agenda, have some people working on these agendas, have we agreed on anything. So, I think that's important, it takes a last minute. We've only got two years left.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56499	Thank you very much. Now we will move on to the next Club of Representatives and that is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56500	... Honorable Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. [[Speaker not enabled]] Well, from today's prime minister's report, all the topics matter, but few of them are actually foreign-political and I have to say that here's... How much I do European affairs, so much more intensively than I've ever followed European topics before, it might be good and useful for Croatian media to recognize it so that all these topics somehow begin to get closer to these home pages because they are important to all of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let's start with the report and do it in order. Migration first. We heard about the Prime Minister, the situation is better than it was a few months ago, it's clear that it is currently reducing migration pressure. It is also evident that a large amount of EU activity not only in Libya but also in neighbouring countries yields results, the refugee is becoming less and less. But I think we'll agree, one is refugees and the other is migrants. First of all, I mean economic migrants. It is great that there is a European Union trust fund for Africa to help directly with the financial resources of many African countries, but I think that when it comes to Africa it should be remembered that sentence "If you really want someone to help, then teach them to fish and don't give them fish." From the perspective of the demographic movements of Africa, and this projection says that in the next few decades Africa will come from 1.2 billion people. Only Nigeria, which today has, if I am not mistaken, 250 million inhabitants, may have more inhabitants than the entire EU. I think it's clear where the good part is going, not to say hundreds of millions of people in Africa are going. They only have to head north. Those figures that I'm not the only one who, I mean, are doing what we've been experiencing in recent years in terms of migration from the Middle East is actually just like a breeze. And this time, I would stress the issue of internal migration, and in the often mentioned context of the principle of solidarity, the distribution of refugees, i.e. migrants that we all understand and accept well, but we expect and understand highly developed Western European states that accepting refugees from the Middle East or Africa in our countries that are left without thousands of people, young and educated, is not equal to accepting and integrating our Western partners and friends regardless of the figures that are concerned, thousands or tens of thousands. The second point is digital Europe, multiplely confirmed the direct impact of digitisation on innovation, growth, employment, competitiveness. So I think, colleague Dodig, I don't see him here anymore, he's not here, but he's read it, so I won't, seven great points from the Digital Agenda and the conclusions of the European Council. But I'll say a few sentences on behalf of the HDZ Club. So above all, support for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission in the completion of the Digital Single Market Legislative Framework. And full digitisation of public administration for the benefit of citizens and entrepreneurs. I believe that regardless of the left, right, or in the middle, we will agree on this. The process will certainly create extra public sector employees. However, especially in Croatia, given the lack of workers who are increasingly worrying about us with the necessary requalifications, I am sure these people will find a job in the private sector. I would also like to reiterate that it would be good to find positive solutions at EU level for platforms such as Uber, not just Uber. So companies, there are now dozens of them similar to Uber, not all of them are engaged exclusively in the transport of passengers but they come to meet us and fall to me a few years ago, listening to the som of that pickle debate, maybe it would be good and useful to have these issues picked up instead of... are being resolved at EU level. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, as far as digital Europe is concerned, there's a lot of debate on freedoms on the Internet. I personally think that the open question is why in an ever-developed and increasingly important virtual world, complete anonymity would be guaranteed on public portals, public ballots, and why allow trolls total freedom and influence every day on our lives and our future. The third point is security and defense. Given all security and defence challenges, it is clear and logical to support the establishment of a European Development and Defence Industry Programme as well as a coordinated annual defence review. However, I think that we also need to take parallel account of this Great Britain as Europe's greatest military force, I think the Western European that is on its way out not to bring into question the unity and strength of the NATO alliance and its fundamentals as well as the transatlantic alliance in any way. Support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia once again in all efforts to speed up entry into Schengen space. I think that this should be the interest of all our neighbours, given these migration and security challenges that we are discussing and being debated at the European Council. The common goal is to strengthen the control of the EU's external borders, so I hope that it would be useful for our neighbours, Slovenians, too, to support this external border from their border to our border and they are dealing with tourism a little bit, but also, regardless of tourism, every economic sector, every economic branch, security is the cornerstone of development and progress. And the fourth point is external relations, as the Prime Minister said, the focus of the debate was in Turkey, Iran and North Korea. As far as Turkey is concerned, it is clear that developments in the internal political plan are not heading towards further approximation of the EU and Turkey. But we also need to recognise the importance of this cooperation when it comes to migration, when it comes to refugee routes, when, of course, Turkey's position is not only in the Middle East but also in Southeast Europe, therefore it is necessary to co-operate with the Turks. A significant issue is the visa-free regime, in this whole process as far as we hear about Turkey, to that degree of visa-free travel leads through their modernisation of customs services. As for Iran, unity has been confirmed in the Union, implementing a common comprehensive action plan. It is crucial that both relations as well as North Korea, coordination and joint performance be with the United States. I believe that there is no need to expect any leaps within the EU when it comes to this joint performance. I'll mention here and the reverse question of Brexit. Before, now more than a month ago, I personally attended the Manchester annual conference of British conservatives, and I was very interested in actually hearing the arguments of those in the British conservative party who were about to leave the EU. I have to admit that two days,... I had to return because of these obligations here in the Assembly, I didn't hear any serious argument even from the position of the island's great state of the former empire that would convince me of their benefit that Brexit would actually be a positive shift for the United Kingdom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am absolutely sure that there will be a great loss for them, I think it is also a great loss for the EU, only the question for whom this loss will be greater. As there are many Eurosceptics in the Croatian Parliament in the final line, talking to some and parliament over the past months, outside the Parliament, I must admit that not once, but not at any of the challenges facing us and the EU, because to discuss technological, ecological, economic, social, any challenges, I have not heard too much of an argument that would contribute to any of the richest EU Member States being able to deal with these challenges more easily and better. Let us return to the report, support for the prime minister and government in ensuring the equality of Croatian citizens in the exercise of rights, we are talking again about Great Britain as well as other European citizens. And let me have another comment. I think it might not be good and wise to punish and press Great Britain during the process of unbundling, but it would be better to find a mutually acceptable model of further trade and other close cooperation. I believe that every force is always giving birth to an anti-violence, and showing muscle in the process of uniting, or separating Brexit from the Union, I do not believe that it would reduce support for Eurosceptic attitudes or parties in individual EU member states. I'm afraid exactly the opposite. And finally, allow me to express satisfaction with the principles that he read or mentioned by the Prime Minister, and said by the President of the European Council Tusk in this creation of Leaders Agenda and I will read them because I think we all care about them, not just us in Croatia. The first principle is, "The leaders need to focus on practical solutions to the real problems of citizens." Secondly, "A step-by-step should be taken to resolve open issues". Third, "It is essential to maintain the unity of the Member States". Given all the challenges that stand before Croatia not only but in front of all EU members and the debates on the future of the EU, I firmly believe that we will stick to all these principles. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this report and I call on all colleagues from both the left and right to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56501	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused quite a number of replicas, so let's start from the beginning. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, for the presentation of the esteemed fellow Milosevic. My comment to you is actually on what you said about trolls and about the anonymity on the Internet. So that's somewhat on the trail of what the Prime Minister said earlier in this brief exchange of how there are opportunities for digitisation to be in some way harmful to democracy, to carry many positive things but that it can also bring something that is bad. So the Internet has brought a simple fragmentation of the public sphere and the sphere of public communication, so there is potentially already impossible to control identities. Two steps further with quantum computers, the question is whether it will really become an impossible mission and I think you're right when you and the Prime Minister are both talking in the end that it is a potential danger that we must be very careful about. However, as in many other matters, this burden of responsibility puts first and foremost on those who are the main communicators in the sphere of public communication. That's what politics is about between us, but everybody else, and if we are here, we are still able to regulate some things, then that means a strong and firm attitude towards those who we already see in some way are breaking the standards of ethical communication and abuse there on the one hand the fragmentation of the sphere of public communication, and in fact there should be democratisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56503	Thank you. The response of the distinguished Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56504	Thank you, fellow Glavasevic. I agree with you completely. Yeah, democracy certainly isn't chaos and anarchy, but one thing's for sure, and that's for the past seven, eight years of technological progress, what we've seen, and that's an incredible rate of flow of information. Every increase in speed necessarily carries a surface or more surface, and that's what we're witnessing. As for the introduction of order, I am told by people who are very, very professional when it comes to the Internet if we exclude the question of dip web that it is possible to have in the news order. I think that this issue will be increasingly public, increasingly in the West because in this flow of information and chaos on the Internet, it seems to me that in conflict between liberal democracy and dictatorial regimes, if we look internationally, I do not speak within a political system or state. In terms of international terms, and everything has become international and global, more or less all trolls speak the same language, somehow it seems to me that the dictatorial regime is a bit of an advantage. So in that sense I think it's important that order is on the Internet, I think it's important to absolutely avoid any way to influence someone's election. It's not easy, but at least a little order can be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56505	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56506	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milosevic. Although I have raised the Institute of Replications with much of your exposure I agree. However, what should be mentioned here, you have well noticed, it seems to me that from the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, somehow more and more intertwined foreign and internal policies, actually internal policies are increasingly taking place in relation to foreign policy, and we are a full member of the EU. I am one of those, and I understand that from your exposure as well as you who believe that EU membership Croatia has received far more opportunities than it has received threats, and that the threats we are actually making ourselves and creating difficulties when that should not be done, is particularly dangerous when institutions are doing it. I'll tell you on one example. In fact, the three governments have tried to show the European Commission that we have problems with internet access. So our fixed Internet is slow, relatively small number of users has and almost half a million connections is on... only 6% of the connections we have a optical connection. Governments have managed all the forces to prove to the European Commission that they have approved this June 101.4m euros. But what HACOM does, our agency, just a week before that she writes in her report that everything is okay with the Internet. You know how they explain it? He says we have 2.8 people per household, not as an average of EU 2.3, and there is always one connection in the household, which explains that we have a sufficient number of connections and data traffic is growing. Well, of course it grows when more and more movies are being downloaded and so on. So HACOM works to say this against the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That's quite a harsh statement, but I can reasonably suspect that there are some interests that make HACOM write and put this kind of project in danger that makes it possible to build so-called project. Information highways in the Republic of Croatia. These are problems and we are responsible for these problems ourselves, and we often blame the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56507	Thank you. The response of the distinguished Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56508	Thank you, Comrade Sagar. I didn't realize until the end what the replica was, but then I'll answer you the same way. What I think we will agree on again, which is that our EU membership is a great potential and tool. How to use the tool depends exclusively on your brain and your hands. I think it is now clear that the process that lasted seems to me to have been used for a lot of things for seven years, but not for fundamental economic reforms. And that kind of led us where we are today, so the competition in economic terms isn't going well. Unfortunately, our private sector is not yet at the level of some Eastern European countries, regardless of export growth. And in that sense, there is no dilemma that it is precisely a great responsibility for this government to make up for the past six, seven years of tax cuts, hand-to-hand sharing and hating of the private sector and citizens under really difficult circumstances. So somehow I have the impression that the last seven, eight years, or maybe even more, we haven't exactly done our homework, and even in this House, it's now been unloaded to this government, so that under these conditions, we still need to do all these efforts that we all expect to do. Because we'd all like it by that logic right now and right now. So it's not just going so easy. But here we are together all together I believe on this same task regardless of the left or right or here in the center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56509	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Darko Paric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Milosevic, I will read you one of the conclusions of the Tallinn European Council. "Digitalisation offers immense opportunities for innovation, growth and job creation. It will contribute to our global competitiveness and improve creative and cultural diversity." I don't think anyone here should explain that this is an economy, economy and the development of the country. This conclusion is in fact what several Croatian governments have been dealing with since 2008 with more or less success. Several governments have been trying to get this country out of it since 2008, taking the right path to say so. And what I find quite fascinating tonight in this House that we all agree here and for years we have a recipe that we can do, how we can solve this country's key problem with it not coming from us, came from Europe, from the world, however, from the most developed countries in the world. And we do not use or use that recipe in a rudimental way throughout all those years so that we cannot do enough to move forward. I'll talk about it a little bit more now on behalf of the club in a few minutes, but I needed to comment on this because this is really a recipe. Digitalisation is now the way to a successful society, and if we as Croatia and as any government from today, we are not going in that direction in the future we will not enter that society and that is it, very simply. As was once electrification, the introduction of electricity, it's today digitization. Tom, we can't get away. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56511	Thank you. The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56512	Thank you. Yeah, well, look, there are two levels of getting along or not agreeing on the goals which is logical we'll agree on. It is also okay in democracy, but we probably won't agree on how we achieve these goals any time or often, and therefore there is thanks to God democracy multi-party and this Assembly. Is there a recipe? Well, I'd like to believe there's a recipe. I firmly believe in the market economy, not only in business but also in politics. But I have to tell you, as far as you're concerned, you've mentioned the economy multiple times, there are rules of play, no. Often in this House, we do not even want to accept them and admit that there are rules of play. Croatia is not China, it will never become and will be difficult to determine the global rules of the game if we want to be successful. But now I won't repeat it again again, there are several Croatian companies that were created after '91, not the issue of conversion and privatisation that are global competitors of products in Croatia. So that means we can be successful. In order for everyone to be as successful as possible is in the private sector and in each government left or right that will provide genuine support to the private sector. But in the end, just let me have one sentence. I got into politics a little bit seven years ago with a firm belief that the economy is bringing answers to all the questions, but in time I have to tell you that I've changed that attitude and I don't think the economy is the cause but the consequences. So, the economy in one country is actually, in particular, transitional, post-transitional if you want, not the cause, but the result of political and social developments, i.e. progress or not progress. Like where. So in this context this Parliament has a really great responsibility that some of the discussions that are beyond all limits of the rules of the game, and these rules exist. If we want to be successful, then the minimum is that we do not sell fog to the citizens of this country. It is also very important that we do not sell them the stories that will lead us to Venezuela and Cuba, while at the same time our citizens are going to Ireland and Germany where the market economy rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56513	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56514	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I honestly didn't know my fellow Milosevic would actually talk about the same or the same thing before me, but today, in his presentation, the Prime Minister spoke about digital Europe and, in fact, the conclusions of the European Council. Several of them related to digital Europe on the importance of both the government and the public sector being digitised and on the labour market and education adapted to the new digital age. And you've touched a common approach to cybersecurity. You mentioned that this impact of digitisation is what the colleague said about innovation, growth, employment, and competitiveness. This year was the annual OSCE Assembly in Andorra and they were actually talking about one cyber warfare and those negativity related to the Internet even though it was an exception before, today is the rule. As for the Internet itself and the question of how and how Europe will resist such things, or respond to the coming trends. It is, in fact, a particular danger today not only in the EU but throughout the world. Here we have today a newsletter, I think from Brock, which is actually talking about tectonic naivety in cyber warfare. Did we and how did we protect ourselves by that question? I think that such things will have to be very much discussed in the coming time, and if you know that in the time that has been ahead of us these few months, we've actually talked in a virtual world of certain blogs in which science and profession and academic community appeared, and we've actually turned this virtual world into the real world that actually surrounds us and is talking about some things that we have to think about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56515	The response of the distinguished Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56516	I can only return one sentence to my colleague, Babic. There's no such thing as total freedom. There may have been such freedoms there many tens of thousands of years ago but in modern society there are limits, laws and thank God that there are and organized societies there is no total freedom. And there's no reason there's total freedom on the Internet. Here's my personal attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56517	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my replica. It's more about your argument. But I'd like to highlight two things. First, you mentioned an interesting idea about Uber, meaning regulation of the Uber issue at European level. What I would stress is what is rarely mentioned in the debate and that the EU is based on four fundamental freedoms of movement. So freedom of movement of goods, capital, people and services or business... The primary powers of the EU to regulate a particular area are precisely in that area to remove obstacles to that freedom of movement and this is regulated, among other things, in Article 114. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Now, given that different states have very different regulatory issues of Uber and this type of service, or do not recognise it at all, it is obvious that this different regulation is an obstacle to the movement of services on the possibility of business in another EU Member State, so I think there is definitely an argument that an initiative can be launched at European level to regulate and harmonise at European level that the rules on this type of service are uniform. Now, second thing, you mentioned Brexit. I have to admit that I've followed the whole argument a lot higher than Brexit and I've been surprised about one thing, now comfortable or uncomfortable as it is taken. I thought of Britain before, or the United Kingdom, that very one high-level democracy, a high level of public debate, etc., but unfortunately their level of public debate in Brexit reminded me a lot of about the public debate when there was a referendum on Croatia's entry into the EU. So the arguments of those who were for Brexit were unfortunately justified and we have often seen this in this Parliament in demagogy, on completely missed information such as that the EU is ruled by bureaucrats that no one has chosen, although the Commission is responding to the European Parliament chosen by all citizens, etc. And that's something to fight against. In this House, I think we should encourage reasoned arguments based on arguments and facts rather than on demagogy and those pan-members that some use for demagogue purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56519	Thank you. The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56520	As for Brexit, I think the thing is a lot more complex than what you said. So I wasn't talking to UKIP at all, about some populists, extremists, I was talking about what was the foundation of British statehood, party conservatives. So there are serious people out there who have seriously talked and advocated further Brexit. I have not been persuaded by any argument, but one thing should be taken into account when talking about the UK, which is that they are an island and it's a pretty big island that has managed half the globe for centuries. So a few dozen million inhabitants managed with half the globe and given all the circumstances in the 21st century, given their past, especially in that one part of the conservative party seems to exist, at least with them and I respect that, arguments that they could in the future, it's a minimum Commonwealth. On the other hand, fear of uncontrollable migration and terrorism may win for something better. Here's what's kind of my vision and some kind of experience. And as for Uber, I can think of a nice European slogan, for example for the EU, which is "Get Uber not... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56521	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56522	Dear fellow Milosevic, you said you had no arguments, i.e. That you didn't even get your arguments on the big island, means to the UK and that you don't have arguments here either. It is at least correct, much more correct conversation with those who have something to say that is wrong in the EU or that is not good. You're much more correct than the Prime Minister, Vladimir Shakespeare. At least you left the thesis so much that we could talk about arguments. So here I'm going to ask you, before joining the EU, had a sum of 64 thousand economies, meaning rural milk producers. Now we have 10 times less. Why are we making less milk now than before? Why are we importing more expensive garbage, it is now proven from the EU by the food we are sick of and our fields are lying? Are you saying that in the EU at councils, conferences, meetings, good relations with Juncker, with everyone, there aren't any stakeholders who don't cite mills on their own water? Now that's the question where we find it. Is the economic belt declared, do we have the courage? How's it going? Well, here it is, literally, here's the digitization we're talking about all the time, 10% just of the rural area, it's going to be less and less because it won't be necessary to build because people are going to move out, you know. This in beautiful words, Brussels, pro-European, communication, that's OK, but that doesn't work on Slavonia, or Lika, or the Dalmatian Zagora, remains empty villages. That's the argument. Which is why these stories, that everything will bloom when we join the EU, are now up in the country, without rich peasants there is no rich country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56523	The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56524	Well, yeah, look, things don't work out overnight, buddy Bull, nothing happens overnight. So we're not a big economy, but anyway, a year, two, four years, actually relatively little, and competition is big. Somehow it seems to me that many times you actually, perhaps not on purpose, but you like to intimidate Croatian citizens with the EU. I don't think it's right or necessary, pal Bull. So I think we need to learn who adults, responsible, now we have and here, 26 years of the state, worry about our problems, solve our own problems. And as I have already said, the EU and our full membership are an excellent tool. And I'll repeat, there are rules of the game, we need to stick to the rules of the game. There are countries in the Union that are less than we are, which are very competitive. So, often now I've been listening to some stories lately like, so here we are all there. Well, it doesn't matter, so Slovaks have a little more than Croats. They're super-successful and they have a serious industry. So we can do this, we have a lot of potential, and I firmly believe that this and every other government will work in that direction. And without anyone being afraid of the EU, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I am also absolutely sure that Croatia has so much potential, that all these tens and hundreds of thousands of young people have a place to go and will return sooner or later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56525	Thank you very much. We will now move to the next club of representatives, which is the SDP on behalf of which time will be shared by the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic and Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about the section on migration, security and defence and external relations, and then my colleague Paric, along with, of course, some other remarks, if he wants to talk about digital Europe. First of all, perhaps we should say here at the outset, that European policy, i.e. policy towards the EU, has always been one of those areas where we have managed hard to achieve, the one so sought and so often mentioned and the desired consensus. Since the '90s. in here, this kind of drive towards being a part of Europe has marked the politics of all governments so far. And I have to admit, sometimes it's hard to see the rise of the European... which I would say, however, is more a feature of what is happening in the EU itself, in some other countries, and here, with the expected replica, my colleagues Pernar in some ways in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that sense, I think that of these introductory notes that we could read in the report, Croatia can already find those arguments, which is why it is good to be part of the team, to be a part of the European family, when it comes to civil protection in the EU, I think that if Croatia is not one of the countries that we have, more and more, this summer has been particularly observing the fires of Dalmatia and climate change, which, however some try to deny, are nevertheless fact, Croatia can benefit from this initiative. Also, what the Prime Minister did not mention, but in the very text of the report, the EU, is an area of high standards in democracy, democracy and also human rights. There, when something like killing a journalist in Malta happens, it's quite an echo, it resonates, and it's being discussed at the highest levels. In that sense as one small parentheses, I think it's something that we should consider even here when we're discussing and when we look at how some new ones fall down or how journalists are threatened with murder by journalists. So very often, reactions, I'm not just talking about politics right now, but generally in society, they're just lagging out. But on the subject of migration, as regards the report itself and what the Prime Minister said, a reduction in the number of migrants was recognised. That's what I'd like to say, that it's very certain, that we can cross over, that it's happening right now, that there's been a reduction at the moment. This is partly because the EU has indeed responded to the way it reacted I will say something later. But we can and must be aware that global inequality, poverty in Africa, guarantees that the migrations we have seen before, especially combined with what fellow Milosevic said, are things that we will see more and more. The more people who live in inequality, who live in poverty, the more they will turn to those places in the world where life is better. The EU, each one of these places. And it is more important again, that the EU acts in the way it works in terms of development assistance and cooperation. And I would like to recognize, in fact, and echo what counterpart Pusic said about the fact that the Croatian commissioner was one of those people who had the largest wallet in the European Commission, 72 billion euros our commissioner had at his disposal, precisely for development aid. So the money that should have served to remove what caused these migrations. And in this report, where Croatia's stance on migration and on the treatment of the cause of migration is discussed, a single syntagm has been used, that an ideal ratio, between accountability and solidarity, will be sought. And so those two concepts are opposing each other. I wonder why responsibility would be against solidarity? The EU is the basis for, among other things, ideals, faith, therefore, not fear. In that sense, I think responsibility and solidarity are not the opposite of concepts. Solidarity and solidarity management are responsible. So I'd say it like that. In that sense, that's what I must say as a socialist. In the part about security and defence we see here and it is announced that there will be deeper integration, we can welcome it, and in that sense I think we also have no particular grudges. Of course, in the perspective, we think it would be good to talk more about it here and in other formats. As for the EU's external relations, the Brexit debate was quite exhaustive in earlier debates on behalf of clubs, so I would not be sticking around here right now, but I would briefly talk about Turkey. I am pleased that the government's view is that there is one concern about Turkey's situation. I think it's important to talk about what we see. So, because of Turkey's size and because of Turkey's importance as a partner, we must not put ourselves in a position to betray those values, so let's be realistic and recognize that the human rights situation in Turkey, with freedom of the media, with freedom of speech, are not what we, as Europeans, advocate and what we strive for in our society. In that sense, another chapter may have been missing in the presentation of the Prime Minister, a small parentheses. In fact, the Western Balkans has been mentioned and is also talking about EU enlargement in the perspective. We also talked about Serbia at the Committee on European Affairs and elsewhere but I would say there is a certain amount of parallelism between the human rights situation and the freedom of the media in Turkey and Serbia. So Turkey, as the prime minister stressed, has a slightly different relationship with these EU negotiations than is expected from countries that have ambition to become EU member states, but Serbia and some other countries in our neighbourhood have that ambition. And in that sense, I would like us to really stick to the fact that we insist at the level of human rights and that through accession negotiations with those countries we bring them to that level that not only was expected of Croatia when we negotiated, but ultimately because of some spite, but because it simply means being part of the EU. And finally, as a final remark, the question I would ask, which is coming to me, which I was forced to read by reading this report. So we recently discussed in the Croatian Parliament on the White Paper, so 5 scenarios for EU development. When I read this, it seems to me that exactly what some Commissioners are doing in their presentations on the Committee on European Affairs and saying that it would be great to spontaneously emerge from the sixth scenario. When I read this report, and especially considering what the Prime Minister was saying... , so it seems to me that deeper integration is certainly happening, so this is where you can see which scenarios have fallen off. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when the Prime Minister said that he stressed that it was important for the debate on the future of Europe to be in the form of all the members, yes, the question that I would then ask here is, in fact, the harmonisation of Croatia's foreign and European policy, whether or not the Three Seas initiative fits what the Prime Minister said, because it seems not to me. And then we'd better get these things in line. In fact, it certainly seems to me that it would be better for the future of Europe to really be in the format of all member states rather than a group of such or such because, in my opinion, Croatia has always been a place in the heart of Europe. Thank you, he'll take over from his colleague, Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56527	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, there is not much time unfortunately, so I will only briefly read parts of the conclusions of the European Council. A strong message has been sent about the need for a stronger and more coherent digital Europe. Digitalisation offers immense opportunities for innovation, growth and job creation. It will contribute to our global competitiveness and improve creative and cultural diversity. That's what we do... In order for digital Europe to be successfully built,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the need for public administrations, public sectors which have completely crossed over to the digital era and which lead to their own example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Prime Minister, unfortunately the Republic of Croatia today and in the short term is not ready to implement everything in a digital sense in order to enter a society like this, I say in the short term, but what I do know is that with a little effort and good organisations, in a short time with digitization, I can do wonders. In 2012, it was recently, cars traveled and drawn documents, if you were lucky to be born in Split, live in Zagreb, you should have started the car, go for your birth certificate. In very little, 2, 3 years we have changed until today all our documents are online, you can take them wherever you want, the state recognizes them and all the bodies of the state and home even in Nicaragua if you are in any case. You absolutely just need the Internet. It is a project made by the Croatian Government, which was created by people working in the public administration of the Republic of Croatia, even as much as we have won the Best Public Administration Award for the project in 2015 from the Open Government Partnership in Mexico City. We have shown that Croatia will and will agree, it can. And that it's not a problem, but the problem is that we get along very well, and it's very difficult to go right. What's very important is that everyone understands. Digitalization is neither politics, digitization is not ideology, digitization is now a path to a successful society. Digitalisation is the way to a successful Europe. And if we don't go that way very soon, it won't be good for all of us because it won't be good the way we think it should be. I've had the honor of running e-Croatia for a while, and I can tell you Mr. Prime Minister, with the best people in that e-Croatian. This small e-Croatia does not have enough power to run this Croatia to get where we are obliged to come and where we want to come. Also in this country in the last 27 years, there is only one consensus, where everyone in the Parliament and the entire public agreed. It was the EU's entry. And that's one and the last. And we managed to do it together. However, I guarantee you that our entry into the EU will not mean much to us in the long term. And if we stay on the seal of the EU and if we are not in all these things technologically and any other equal with the EU. And what's very important, I think it's this particular topic, the topic of digitization, perhaps the topic, that could be the second national consensus in this country. Because this topic has nothing to do with politics. This topic and digitization is exclusively something that brings good to this country. It's just something that needs to be the same to everyone and it has nothing to do with any ideology. I would even dare say that digitisation can be our new dell in Croatia. And if we put it the right way to set it up. But in order for us to make it a new dell we need a consensus, we need a consensus in this House, all over the place. On the other hand, we need to ask a completely different question of information and digitisation in the country itself. Digitalization cannot be conducted from a small ministry, nor can it be conducted from one office in this way. If you want radical digitisation, as Europe asks us to, then we must put it in the structures of the government as a ministry, it must have a Deputy Prime Minister for Digital Society or whatever you want. But in any case, the foundation and the essence of everything is true, in order for this to work, we need a consensus, because neither party, left nor right, nor HDZ or SDP have introduced Croatia into the EU. All governments in the country have been introduced into the EU. And that was the only question we all agreed on. And if, in the end, we really want to be the right part of this EU, if we want to be in step with the EU, if we really want to be a digital EU and modern society, we really need a consensus on digitisation, we must, in fact, agree urgently on the main topics and main steps in this matter and start to realize it together, no matter who is ruling in this country, who will rule tomorrow and how it will rule. I think that should be a priority to everyone. Because as you have read, as you have heard, as Europe says, truly digitization is the path of successful society. If we want to go that way, let's make a deal and go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56528	Thank you very much. Now we move on to replicas, there's more of them. The first is the replicas of the esteemed representative Glavasevic. The first replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56529	Dear Representative Glavasevic, you said you were sorry about the rise in Euroscepticism. But you have to wonder why citizens are becoming increasingly Eurosceptic. Namely, when we entered the EU, we were giving an increase, about how the number of jobs in Croatia will increase. Today, we all know he's less employed than when we joined the EU. Promises have been made about how a whole single market will open up to us and how we will, for God's sake, export our products there. The reality is the opposite, the reality is that we are no longer on our own market, after the elimination of customs duties, unable to compete and that the production of almost all agricultural cultures is in decline. Milk is falling apart, corn production, I don't know, only this year, 20% less than last year. We've never imported eggs before, and now we're importing, etc. You could be counting forever. Although I am personally against meat nutrition and meat production, everything is simply falling apart. What I can conclude is that instead of promises of a better life, jobs, etc. I remember right after I joined the EU, almost the first decision was to collect, collect, power, water, gas, heating, etc. The EU says, we are looking for a real estate tax, we are asking for the introduction of the euro, etc. I think that citizens would be fools if they weren't growing Eurosceptics because actually, what's more Euroscepticism is evidence of actually being out of a winter dream where they were introduced by lies, lies of promotional messages, which were broadcast on the eve of entry. The living wall is therefore a growing political force and consequently those who are prominent figures of the Living Wall will be increasingly political figures on this scene, unfortunately for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56530	Thank you. Here will be answered by distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Pernar, I mean, we're not gonna lie to each other. You're absolutely right. However, all these things you've listed have really happened, but you've made a logical mistake, which is in Latin called... I mean, you think what happened, because it happened after something happened, that's why. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the things that have happened are not the consequences of the EU, the consequences of our inability to get the best out of the EU for Croatia. So, all the governments that have so far, with more or less success, which are actually 3 after Croatia's entry into the EU, have done something for Croatia. So, among other things, it is the cause of the SDP's current reserve according to announcements of the introduction of the euro. So all the things you've listed have happened, you're right. However, if someone is sick, you will not kill that person, but you will try to cure it. In that sense, the EU and that is what Croatia must understand, we are the EU, not the EU, something more out there beyond our borders, but we are the EU and the EU will be what we make of it. So I'd say vice versa. To me, these things you're saying, okay, that's the ideological difference for you, they're the justification for your Euroscepticism for me is to make Croatia much better than what's happened so far, and to use the EU mechanisms that are much better than the alternative to making Croatia a better place for life and that the things that have happened to Croatia, which are unique to our country, bring Europe closer to the EU as a community of states, make it a better and wiser political union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56532	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56533	Thank you very much. Some facts are facts, and as much as it has tried to invent and lie, it will remain facts, and that is why I am pleased with my colleague Glavasevic that in your debate you have launched a topic that is real. So the fact is that in 2011, we had an economic downturn of 2.5% and today we have a 3% economic growth and the fact that we went to the EU market why, for example, small producers from Zagorje, from Međimurje, from Istria, cheered daily by calling it when it would happen so that they could come out and go out to the EU market is that it helped and made it possible for us to grow. But what is not our fault is the EU, and what you have opened and what I think is very important, which is our topic, which is the issue of distribution. So the issue of the distribution of this economic growth or the results of this economic growth and how many people in Croatia benefit from it and how much the difference between a small number of very rich, practically middle-class disappearances and the poverty of other people, which is not the question of the EU, but is the issue of the distribution that you were talking about, which is why I wanted to underline it in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56534	Thank you very much. The response of the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pusic, thank you for your comment. In fact, somehow again on the trail of what counterpart Pernar said, that gap between the richest and the poor, that gap in wealth is one of those things that destroys Croatia and that prevents us from developing. And in the end, we saw the last tax reform, so it's a couple of excellent examples of how we plant our own feet. So when we talked about this tax reform when we talked about how it wasn't redistributive tax reform, how the rich became even richer, and how the poorer ones had nothing to do with it then they told us that we just want to take the rich, so that's just one ordinary tacerism. And actually, if you look at ordinary people in this country, they don't have much of it. But there are many mechanisms that we can work on just as part of the EU, so that's one of those things that rang me when I talked about how responsibility and solidarity are not the opposite concepts. So that, in politics towards refugees or migrants, although in a termological difference, I must admit that I see traces of some difference in attitude, so also in how we behave at home as Europeans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56536	Thank you. The next replica is Davor's esteemed representative, Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Glavasevic. You have opened an important topic about the future of the EU, you have insisted that it be in the format of all the members, I think we agree here. This is at the very least what European Commission President Juncker said in his speech on the state of the Union in Strasbourg. However, they opposed the Three Seas initiative, or in general that part of the EU, makes it seem to me that you have gone the wrong way. Why? In his speech, Commission President Juncker explicitly opposed other ideas that did not come from that part of the EU but from just one other part, which is a special parliament for the Eurozone, a special budget for the Eurozone and he explicitly opposed it and I think it is extremely good that he did so and that is why we need to support just such an approach where we will have one EU in the format of all members, not such new artificial divisions that would be the beginning of the end of the EU. You will not hear such messages from this platform "Three Seas". There are not only as only Poland or Hungary is said, although it can be debated, and of course you have the Baltic republics, there you have Estonia, which we have repeatedly praised today. There are new members who also have certain common interests, but not in creating new divisions, but in just one concept which is the original concept of the EU that concept of Adenauer and... The Schumans of United Europe, not Europe with new divisions. I just think that you were going the wrong way what Junker pointed out was very clearly referred to some other suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56538	Thank you. The response of the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56539	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Stier, thank you for your comment. Otherwise, we are expected at the Committee on European Affairs very soon to discuss this very context of the Three Seas and the EU initiative. A fellow Milosevic has indeed given himself the effort to prepare this session and I look forward to it and look forward to this discussion because it will be very extensive. What I would like to tell you is in short, that I use metaphor and Tom had to feel Jesus ’ wounds to believe. So what I would say is micro-regional initiatives within the Union usually end up in some interesting divisions. The "Three Seas" initiative seems somehow to me, and I doubt that those most influential members who push that initiative are mostly gathered around some values that I am not entirely sure how consistent they are with the values they declare, let me use the word EU's main stream, and finally also Juncker talked about in his speech. So the message of unity of the Union is something that we will all resonate or echo, which we will agree on. But the question of how individual member states see it in the implementation of this. And that's the part, the harder one, that's really the harder part of being part of a community like this. For Croatia it is a new experience anyway. We all know that our experiences with the Unions that haven't been particularly good so far. Thank you. I mean, we'll be better in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56540	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Mira Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56541	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So two remarks. First remark... in the Croatian Parliament how this initiative even took place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She directly called strategy north south and there was made one... and was inspired by the European Commission's documents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Read it a little bit, and you'll find there's a so-called. projects of common interest. The European Commission has classified the LNG terminal as a project of common interest of the European Union, the last structure called... And we got a guarantee of 102 million euros for the LN terminal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is how the North-South project was created and then later transformed into an initiative of three seas. So this is one project that is compatible with the European Commission's Energy Strategy. It is important, we heard that with Mr Milosevic, I am now with Mrs Mogerina to include, at the next meeting in Bucharest, colleagues from the European Commission to be present, to be present. I repeat, in symbiosis with the European Commission and Croatia, it can benefit both financially and politically if it acts wisely, which I do not doubt. Secondly, you spoke of human rights, fundamental freedoms in Serbia. This is where we agree and last year we had this terrible fight more in Croatia, less abroad, to install very important criteria in terms of 23, which is called the judiciary and fundamental freedoms. And of course, we as an EU member state will monitor and respect the criteria that are embedded in this famous chapter called the judiciary and fundamental freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56542	Thank you. The response of the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56543	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Kovac, about this first topic, you've actually been overlapping a little with your colleague Stier, but I repeat. We will indeed have a good format for discussing this on the Committee on European Affairs. I repeat the fact that something has happened, so in American... about how we could edit the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll say it again... However, there is something else I can say in this second part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So our neighborhood thinks it suffers from quite a number of pains when it comes to human rights. These pains sometimes affect Croatia, but that is not what I want to talk about right now. The fact that sometimes we too suffer from a small part of such a problem, a smaller or larger one, does not mean that I should not insist and be correct for the neighborhood. On the contrary, I think that our experiences that we have now and that we have and before can only serve as an example. After all, it is I will repeat it and in my debate it is not in the desire that some rematch against the injustices that Serbia has done to us in the past. This is because one day in the European Union we want to have partners who are equal to us, partners that we agree on values, partners that we end up with... which we have common ground. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it. And that's why we have to insist on it, I'm going to repeat it is something that we've discussed several times and on committees we've discussed and I think we've had a very good consensus about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56544	Thank you. Now we'll go to the replicas of the esteemed representative of Parisic. The first one was Commissioner Pusic, please. ... I'm sorry, I didn't see. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You got it. It's standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56545	So, fellow Glavasevic, the two of us often agree, but about three seas seems we will not agree and I will try not to repeat my colleagues Stier and Kovac. So, first of all, it depends whether the initiative is three must be seen as a danger to someone or an opportunity to someone. I see the three seas initiative as a great opportunity for the entire European Union, and above all for the space of 12 members or 11 plus Austria as regards the three seas initiative. Why do I say that? First of all, because I firmly believe that it cannot, the European project cannot be stable, long-term sustainable if the East of Europe remains much, much poorer than Western Europe, and statistics say that we are here in Eastern Europe, the European Union is sorry for 45% of the European Union's GDP average, the average of which we contribute to the reduction. So, Europe is unsustainable where a million citizens from the east will go west to the ones you need to build the state and the economy. So, I think the three-marine initiative answers exactly those questions. I think it corresponds to the infrastructure that needs to be built, which is incredibly abandoned and lagged in relation to Western Europe, with the digitisation mentioned by my colleague, Paric, I will return to digitisation and energy diversification and security. So it is not normal for gas, the same product Russian natural gas to pay 20% more in the east of the European Union than in the west. The transport cost is slightly lower than your source. That's one thing. Second, I'll go back to that infrastructure. A fellow Parić, digitization and digitization are engaged in the whole world. Digitalisation with all due respect and tools cannot be a Croatian new deal. I think that Croatia's new deal, and it has to do with three seas, can be within the Three Seas initiative, that is to impose Croatia as a new entry point in the EU for the East, the Far East of goods, exports and imports. So that's what we need here. I'm thinking about six, seven years in politics. I'm talking about the river-Zagreb and the new Lucy Rijeka. LNG terminal, I think my colleague Kovac mentioned, so these are projects that I think about Croatia new diet that Croatia is not so big, put on a map around the world, certainly the whole of Europe which in the case of LNG means that Croatia is ready to take its responsibility for energy... even less for Croatia alone than for Central Eastern Europe and energy security. And about the potential for us to become a logistics point for goods from the Far East because we're the only Mediterranean and Danube country I don't think I need to explain to anyone here, just take a map and look at Europe's map.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56546	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56547	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, fellow Milosevic it is one of the things we even said I would debate, but more like this privately. In fact, what we're going to have on the board soon, I think it's just another quality and larger debate on the Three Seas initiative. There was one in HGK recently. What is possible is that there is one amount of misunderstanding in the public. The initiative was mainly discussed by the president, a smaller club of HDZ representatives. I have heard nothing affirmative about the Three Seas initiative, neither from the Prime Minister nor from the foreign minister. So I have to admit it's a possible cause of partial retention. What's our position that in any case consensus is a good thing and a desirable thing. If we can get him great, but if there's some real thing that colleague Dragovan would say historical reasons that we don't have him on these issues, unfortunately that's how it has to be. I would like to really and look forward to repeating this debate, I am not sure that it is not possible to implement all these projects without sort of putting ourselves next to countries that do not have what counterpart Pusic says liberal democracy. I don't think it's necessary for us to tie each other up. So here I would, in some ways, stop my debate or answer to your replica here, and we can certainly and need it on the board, but I think there's one difference in the perception of it between part of the representatives in your club and the way the Prime Minister and the Minister have talked about it so far or not. I think the Three Seas initiative mostly appeared from that other hill, not the one we're on right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56548	Thank you. Let's move on with the replicas, distinguished colleague Vesna Pusic for counterpart Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56549	Thank you very much. So I volunteered for the replica of my colleague Paric so I can say that I don't remember hearing in the Assembly that someone with such passion and sincere conviction is talking about a subject of how you spoke about the digital agenda and the possibility of consensus about it. I'm not someone who is particularly involved in this, but I must say that with your conviction, you have convinced me that this is a good thing. In fact, I've come to express a truly positive climate, a commendation that you've entered with your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56550	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56551	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, thank you very much. I hope you find yourself on the right of someone I've managed to convince of the need for something like this. I mean, I've been dealing with this issue for many years now, and I really believe what I'm saying about digitization. Digitalization, I repeat, it's not technology, it's not politics, it's not ideology, it's really a path to a successful society. Today's the time to be with the best, it's up to us to choose whether we want to be or not. This is really an opportunity because I have managed to convince myself of my professional experience in the state all that really with very little money and little people with information you can do wonders. To commend my colleague Shuker with this system you have introduced, you have created the foundations and the assumption that digitalisation happens in Croatia. If it wasn't for a lot of what we have today, there wouldn't be. But what we have today is absolutely not enough that we can meet the goals that the EU has set for itself in the very near future. And what's the problem with us being digitized from time to time is there's some Schukers, these, they're almost anomalies in the system and they're doing something good, and then it's all back in the dark until somebody else comes along and the whole thing pushes. What I really want to say is that if we want good for this country and our children this is a chance for a new deal, this is a chance to do something. You can get the LNG terminal and I don't know which miracles, you can put in Fitz a motor of whatever you want, but it's still around Fico around that engine. And if we want it to be right, then this is really a fundamental issue that we have to start working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56552	Thank you. And we're going to the last line, dear colleague Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56553	Dear colleague Paric. I'm joining exactly what Mrs. Pusic said. So digitization, in any case, is what you've said with a lot of zeal, and I think there really should be a consensus. You mentioned entering the EU, unfortunately there are still those who question whether it is necessary or not and think that everything is going to happen in itself, not that it needs an additional engagement from all of us to achieve something. So what you're saying really with digitization can be achieved much more because unfortunately there are still systems of ours that aren't networked together. So it takes time, it spends a lot of paper, it certainly slows down the work of all the services and ultimately slows down the decision making of some important ones that would then be much more quality and much faster with this connection of the system. Well, just as on the list of the World Bank Doing Business, Croatia has progressed, for example. in the booklet in the land-book system, and it still goes back in the system of issuing building permits, although we seem to have done a lot of things, but we are really much behind, and then we have to wonder why the business world and investors don't come so warmly and open-heartedly and with lots of capital. That's exactly why. That's why I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56554	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56555	Dear colleagues, thank you very much. I'm not gonna ruin the average after this, and I'm not gonna talk anymore. But we have to say that digitization at this point is the solution to everything. E-Croatia has received from an open power partnership that I know is established by American President Barak Obama in a year in Mexico City in competition with God ask how many countries with 27 international judges that we have not in any way agreed and accepted, an award for e-Citizens for the best project in Europe in digitising public administration for 2015. It was made by a small e-Croatian, very, very small. The e-Croatian aspect of the state apparatus is absolutely negligible and is made by the people who are doing the project there. Not politics, I don't know, people who work there with everyone else. We have shown by this that we can do wonders if we agree to do them in a short time, and that's the best thing about digitizing what with little resources, but with the agreement of stories and the agreement of good people in a short time you can do wonders. And that's why I'm not talking nonsense about the new deal, we really as a government, as a state we can do wonders with this, but we need to agree, we need to not let e-Croatia push digitalization but government, the prime minister should stand at the head of this digitization and push everything into that digitization, absolutely all the departments, all the ministries, all the bodies. For if you bring an investor, you give him land and conditions when he is driven by local self-government, forms and God ask him what is together. In light of our agreement, I call you truly to power, today's ruling coalition, really let's try to make that step, let's take this new deal, I'm confident that both SDP and everyone else will give you their hands to move forward together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56556	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The next Independent Lists' Advocacy Club is Panenic's first colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56557	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. In this presentation, I would present practically one segment of the report but which may also be indicative of how our representatives of the authorities function at such meetings in Brussels. The report on the meeting of the European Council states, in fact, that the President... Antonio... states in his opening address, among other things, about the directive to the workers that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in its report on the directive in question gave him the green light for further procedure. What I must express is a primary regret that not a single word to this vital interest of our workers, our companies working abroad, the Prime Minister did not give a review of his meeting or in the report in question. Why is it important, why is this very issue of ignoring because by taking effect this directive is of crucial interest to nearly 40,000 Croatian citizens, and Minister Pavic voted abstentionly in the prime minister's cabinet under the same directive at the meeting. So we don't have a say in it. What is even more indicative is that this same ministry has expressed concern that this directive will make it more difficult for our workers to be legally referred to and have adverse consequences. So the vote is abstention, and it communicates that it's harmful. The same ministry warns that this reform will be the hardest to damage the construction sector, but not only are they services, finance, real estate market insurance and others, but all of this is essentially what message we sent to Brussels? Silence, silence, restraint. And then I wonder, who are our representatives of the government there? Citizens or themselves, so perhaps for the sake of good relations with certain officials of the European Commission do not want to step forward, they do not want to make their position clear. And what is even more controversial, which is based on the attitude, is that we have a view of a directive that applies to our economy. I would primarily wonder if our ministry has made an impact assessment of this directive on our economy. I'd like to see it, so we here to adopt a certain law we must and seek and I insist and on my Committee on Agriculture, to make an impact assessment and see that it's controversial. It was brought that it must be done, I see that the ministry is trying to banalise it, turn it into something, it seems until there is a real document that will have the name of impact assessment, we will not have it, then we are discussing politically the laws relating to the economy, and it is no wonder that then and in other employers and workers they call us to do bad laws and ultimately to negotiate politically and create conditions that are not objective. And that is why it is legitimate that MOST independent lists seek the criteria on which our position is based. And in addition, I would say a few facts if it were not for the problem of today, but for the views expressed, the ruling majority had already expressed that view. So already in 2016, the President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the current Vice-President, Mr Reiner, addressed the opinion to the European Parliament, the reasoned opinion of the Croatian Parliament for European Affairs, where the current President of the Parliament was chaired at the time and where they expressed the problem with the principle of subsidiarity and explained that the proposal for a directive opens up issues that restrict the freedom to provide services and stressed that the work is a legitimate, competitive form of actually creating a business. The committee then had two current ministers and the current president of the parliament, so if we had a abstention now, then it would mean that they were able to turn their minds. The second is the fact that employers' associations warn that this is challenging the competitiveness of entrepreneurs and is jeopardizing 30,000 jobs, of course we are referring to what we can say to our government, the prime minister is restrained. The third is that after the abstention of the vote, Minister Pavic said that such a directive brings further division into Europe two speeds, actually east and west. It just shows that he's aware of the weight of this directive but he's still restrained and the government is restrained. The fourth fact is that our representative in the European Parliament, Ivana Maletic, who is here, also points out as a top expert, warns that this is an artificial way for the state to apply conditions that are economically not applicable because Croatia is not at this level of development, our internal market does not provide enough jobs and it will all lead to the abolition of jobs. 1, 2, 3, 4, the fact one, the other, the third, the fourth, we're counting, but not now we've actually got a position that's restrained and perhaps enough to say uninterested. We saw during today and this debate about the current clock that sometimes the gravity of a situation can hit the prime minister through the debate and he finds himself offended. Just imagine when the weight of the situation hits our employees who are in these companies, they will find themselves offended or they will be loud. No, they will be loud and they will demand their rights if, somewhere with your restraint, you will lift the job, the job, the security, then offer something here in Croatia. offer not to be what fellow Fico has stated, but to be some bodywork in which our workers will be able to function. Following all of this, he would ask a question, which is who he represents, in which way, by which facts, and whether we are really protecting the interests of our workers and our entrepreneurs. Now he'd leave his word to his colleague Mira Bull. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56558	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56559	Dear Mr. President, dear Prime Minister Vladimira Seks, the Honorable Minister, the prime minister is not present, that he is not a balcony, I don't know, but there is still a report here to be told, but he'll probably hear it a little later. What to say, right away, let's start in the EU when it comes to Council of Europe reports, out of warm encounters with our prime minister's friends that only what is expected strategically means the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it cannot be said that there is no interest there, that this is how it goes. However, the fact is that each one points to its mill, that there are stakeholders in the EU, that today in Croatia, if we are going to repeat, if we are going to watch and produce food, I mentioned just before milk production, before we enter Europe we have produced ten times as much milk, 64 000 milk producers, today we have burned at 5.6,000, Slavonia is empty, that is, as far as agriculture and our fields, our plains. But perhaps the prime minister of his ability, by communication, may in his own words be telling Slavonia empty, Liku, Gorski Kotar, Straight Wheels, but these are empty areas. I'm talking security. It's security, it's security. What security we're talking about where 100,000 young people go. Is the diameter... Showing Junker and his friends to whom he is so good and devoted, people go to me, your food comes which is garbage, collects 10 times as much as in you, which is proven in your country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He didn't say, he didn't say, we're talking about... Needless to say, the Internet is everything, it does not need to be discussed, it is only 10% rural area, but it did not say who will build the infrastructure, whether T-COM will work or the Croatian state will work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So who's going to work, Prime Minister? Here, I'm sorry he's not Mr. Shakespeare, sorry, Plenkovic, his deputy, present here, I'd like to ask him to answer who's going to build the infrastructure. Once they took away our foreign teleopers, what our grandfathers were doing, our fathers who did what they did, they took our privatisation and went into someone else's hands. A set of infrastructures that people paid bloodyly. They gave thousands of marks to the village, they had no bread, and now these villages are empty. That should say Prime Minister Shakespeare, excuse me, his deputy, Mr. Plenkovic, but we don't hear it from him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56560	A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56562	It's been very nice twice, so now three times it's been boring, so please don't repeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56563	It's your personal matter, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56564	Okay, no, it's not, it's a question of culture. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56565	Well, you have a chance, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56566	But it would be better if you could switch to the Perun thermal power plant that you supported. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56567	I just want you to let me talk, I know, if you broke the Rules of Procedure, I know you're protecting the diameter of Vladimir Shakespeare, I know it all. However, the fact that the Prime Minister said I was the mayor did not react this way. ... So I apologize to Mr. Shakespeare, which is the key man, the precedent. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's not what I said. That's what the diameter said, that's what I said. Mr. Shakespeare, I speak his words. I'm still under the impression of that article, how he oversteps it, through which checkpoints, how he put it together. That's why I'm telling you the impression. I don't think it's right for you to interrupt, but never mind, let's move on. I'm sorry he's not talking about Croatian shipbuilding. What about Croatian smugglers, where our experts go to 3 countries to build. This is what I expect from the diameter to talk about the EU, which is what we need to talk about. As for safety, we'll be safe, when Slavonia is full of stickers, but unfortunately, it won't be a problem to fill the farms with cattle and it won't be a problem to fix it, but it'll be a problem to bring back those people who went all over the family. It's a key problem, Mr. Prime Minister. I hope you will courageously protect national interests, that you will open up the issue of the economic belt, which Mr Stier also advocated while he was foreign minister and here we see that there is silence. We see that silence is on all issues. I therefore expect that the premium, its friends in Brussels, will use for Croatian national interests, protect national interests, and not from this speaker, will attack anyone who mentions words against the EU. It's an absolute dictatorship. Whether, mention, there was someone from the Living Wall, something against the EU, so why would he now speak beautifully about the EU. Well, we in Croatia now have fewer inhabitants than when we joined the EU, so the fact that the Constitution has changed in the last year, that 50% of voters should not go out. And in the local committee, a referendum on a small problem should be held by 50% of voters. Because it was a fake painting, the fake painting was, of course, a dodgy picture. It was easier to arrest, locate, transfer, it was easier to do so. It was easier to allow Serbia chapter 23 to judge Croatian defenders. That is what I want to talk about, to protect Croatia's national interests, not the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56568	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague of the Grmoys.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56569	Your Honor. You have injured Article 231. means you, as chairman, are giving your word and you need to remind the MPs, if one of the speakers interrupts during the speech, and you have given yourself the right, comment, to give courts about the behaviour of your colleagues Bulj, about his vote, the effects of his vote on certain projects, it is absolutely unacceptable. If it offends you that my colleague Bulj mentions Vladimir Seks, you should discuss it with him, who in interviews claims to be the creator of this ruling majority. Just like he claims he played a key role. So, the man publicly admitted on television that 70 delegates he introduced, so that Ivo Sanader, the man we all know who did, would become the president of the HDZ. The fact that Vladimir Seks has problems with staying remembered as a great historical figure is not a problem for Mira Bulja, but for you in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56570	Thank you. I appreciate that there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. And I warned that the diameter was called different. I don't think it's polite, someone named one name, to call another name. ... Well, that's why I've played it twice, so I've played it three times, because obviously it wasn't just a lapus. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, whoever gets confused a lot, I think he's got other problems. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Nothing. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Did he apologize? Well done. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we're going to the replicas. Dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56571	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Panenic, you have raised a very important question, it is a directive for posting workers. The truth is that this report is mentioned in just one sentence and quite modestly. We have a situation that the government of the Republic of Croatia must have information, often times and the prime minister warns MPs not to perform populistly, not at all the government should not, the government must have information, the government must bring a certain position at a certain point. True, that attitude can sometimes be in terms of the number of voters in any future election, but it must take a stand. Every abstention is not good. Why? On the one hand, we have trade unions that welcome the introduction of this directive, and on the other hand we have employers who warn with the right that if this directive is applied, that the Croatian economy will not be able to be competitive to undermine EU countries' levels. Trade unions also warn that it is not good to build competitiveness only at the price of work. And it is now a closed circle that the Croatian government must cut. Therefore, Croatian workers cannot be competitive about the fact that companies they work in are not competitive, and they should actually be paid for their work as well as paid workers in the countries they are sent to. And yet the unions warn, if that's not the case, those workers that are already happening to us will go to foreign businesses. So, we're going to lose more people like we did in the shipbuilding, and we're going to lose high-quality welders, which, for example, you can hardly find on HZZ. The situation is not simple, but the Croatian government cannot run away from responsibility, it must take a position, the Croatian minister has been restrained and the question is now being raised when he will be restrained and when he will make a decision that will position Croatia in the direction in which he should, as well as the euro advocates Ivana Miletic was against the directive, while, let's say, I think that Picula's representative was in favour of the application of this directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56572	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56573	Dear colleague Zhagar, I will remain abstention in my view of what you said because there is no point in discussing if our prime minister is not interested at all, he is not present here among us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56574	Let's move on, second replica, dear colleague Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56575	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Panenić, I am pleased that you have noticed and praised our consistency that we have pointed to some things on those occasions and the current president of the Croatian Parliament and the committee of the then and so on. Because here, in fact, your entire debate went somewhere in that direction around here. But the thing that offered me the most in the debate, or the replica, is the fact that the abstention, that you are restrained, is uninterested. Abstention does not mean being uninterested because if that criterion were applied to you, you very often as MOST are restrained in many things, in many very important things for Croatian politics, for the Croatian people, so it turns out that you are uninterested. I don't believe you're uninterested because you vote with abstention. Therefore, abstention does not always mean uninterested.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56576	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56577	Thank you very much. Dear academic Rainer, of course the subject of abstention is always a question of what is being discussed and of importance. Of course, by looking at attitudes like this, you said yourself we can be abstentions, but it's always a problem when in one, quality, good bill that we generally support, you always incorporate a certain provision that's problematic or harmful and we try to warn about it but we don't find an echo of it all. And then you can't tell us we don't want to be about this law or how it communicates in public, of course we are for it, but we don't want it to be to the harm of someone who will later call you and us. But of course it's very difficult between these three options to choose... However, here we define through the Government in this way our future policy and I am glad, you had an attitude, I counted, the attitudes were to say both your and finally and the President of the Parliament and after that and Mrs Maletic, they are clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, that's what I was doing and it was clear. But then the question is whether those views of you were respected when you communicated with the Prime Minister or whether he felt that there was something harmful about it, so he remained restrained. I think it's crucial to actually consider abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56578	All right, let's move on. Next up, it's "The Living Wall's Club" and "SNAGA" and a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56579	Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, entering an interesting historical moment in which our society is failing, all economic indicators are negative, young people are fleeing the country, even the president who, until yesterday, paintedly said that Croatia would be one of the richest countries if not in the world at least in the EU, today says that the country is going the wrong way. You can see this on the streets of Zagreb, more and more beggars, more and more homeless people who are retreating on trams, buses, etc., by night lines and you can see by blocked citizens, by citizens who live by the minimum, who do not have a marenda, who do not have to be transported, are simply short of hunting to say. However, the European Commission does not care, the problems of Croatian citizens do not interest it and unfortunately our prime minister acts as Maria Antoinette. And why is that? Because we see from the experience of other countries that introduced the euro that there was a fall in purchasing power. I can give you the most banal example of what this collection means in practice. Until the entry into the EU, i.e. the introduction of the euro, Slovenia had tolar and had large shopping centres near the borders with Croatia. The moment she introduced the euro, it led to a gathering and automatically stopped our citizens from going to Slovenia. So for the Slovenian economy, the introduction of the euro meant a drop in competitiveness, the introduction of the euro meant an increase. And logically, the same thing happened in Germany. In Slovenia they even say that the collection is for certain things, means for the type of coffee in the coffee shop and most of our citizens drink coffee, many smoke, go for cafes, that means in practice the pick-up for them. And this government is essentially planning a gathering. So the introduction of the euro basically means for citizens to collect. So now, what's going on? 59.5% of citizens say we are against the introduction of the euro. And Plenkovic, Mr. Prime Minister, his Highness, his Excellency, a couple of excellence, he says it doesn't matter, we're still introducing the euro. Then we say Mr. Plenkovic, so you can't go against the will of the citizens to do something like that. And he says there's no referendum. And then I came back, or I remembered his statement "I can do what I want", "I can do what I want", means that you are against real estate taxes, ladies and gentlemen, I can do what I want. You're against the euro, ladies and gentlemen. I can do whatever I want. And his attitude towards the citizens, in fact, shows all his separation from reality, a reality in which 75% of the citizens do not support his government's policy and he sheretically says he does not see why he would resign. However, I would refer to one detail he returned me to in his replica, he said, so we committed to introducing the euro as we join the EU, the thesis no. 1. And the second thesis, I would also dare say pseudos, so the primal lie was that it was a democratic referendum. So here's Mr. Plenkovic, is it democratic when no person who had anything against the EU could find in the newspaper or get media space, is it in the spirit of democracy? I don't think so. And we know that 95% and more media space today were only for those who had been to join the EU. Also propaganda ads on television, so there were no propaganda ads against the EU, we could only watch how we will live in the country and honey and milk where let's tell us cow and bear promise honey and milk and where people are actually convinced that they themselves are not really aware of the benefits of the EU being proved to be a lie later on and as a lie and there was also a campaign of intimidation. We all remember Vesna Pusic and her stories about how pensioners will not have pensions unless they join the EU. And then what happens? The government was aware that most Croatian voters would not support joining the EU. And then, ladies and gentlemen, what are you doing, what is HDZ doing, what is Mr. Vladimir Seks doing, who is instructing the Prime Minister of the current and probably the former? Vladimir Seks changes the Republic of Croatia in a way that only three people of 4 million voters come out and two people are being joined by the EU. And so when Mr Plenkovic says it was a democratic referendum, so what kind of referendum is it when maybe 20% of voters say that entering the EU or, say, 25% and 100% eventually entering even though the other 75% in the referendum did not actually vote for entry? That thesis in the Constitution that 50% of voters must vote in favour of disunity or association with another state community, so who put that thesis in the Constitution? So your founder, the founder of HDZ, Dr. Francis Tudjman because he knew that he would appear in the impasses of a historical set of people who would want to reverse that process, that process he started, which was the process of independence and sovereignty of our country that would bring us back into the community of state with Serbia today or tomorrow. And that is what is happening, Serbia will become part of the EU and today Croatia will be in the EU if it does not come out with Serbia. And for that very reason, fearing such historic turns, that is, the vainness of the Homeland War and the victim Franjo Tudjman introduces that decision into the Constitution, but I say Mr. Seks and his chamber are changing that decision and he simply says, "No, we let Franjo Tudjman go, we let our founder speak, we now lead one other HDZ." And what other HDZ is that? Well, that's that thieving HDZ led by Ivo Sanader and that HDZ led by your recent President Tomislav Karamarko. And you said in your time that the party shouldn't be the hostage of one man. I agree with you. But I also think of Mr. Plenkovic, these are my historical words, and neither the state should be the hostage of one man's vanity and ambition, which would actually be to entangle those who hold his ass in Brussels are actually doing all the possible concessions they are looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56580	Comrade Pernar, colleague Pernar, I beg you now. So I'm letting you say whatever you want, but don't say it insultingly. We're gonna stop, we're gonna stop time. [[Intruder Pernar: Time must stop, time must stop, Mr. Jandrokovic, please.]] Don't say things first that aren't right and the other things that are offensive and ugly So, say what you want but keep the truth and the dignity of another person. [[Pernar: Good.]] That's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56581	Maybe telling the truth here is forbidden by the words that the truth is happening, so I'll rephrase it. So Junckers is Juncker came to you on the same thing, Juncker pinched our prime minister's ass. [[The President's intrusion: It's your water heater, and this one's Juncker.]] That's what we all saw.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56582	He's not a colleague, Pernar. Don't lie, please. He said and it was explained what happened. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56583	Well, of course he'll say he didn't. Well, he won't say I did. And what we expected, he'd say that of course I pinched him. No, he said I played something etc. But what I'm saying is that this government is trying to court these Brussels bureaucrats and is actually depriveing the state of one segment of its sovereignty and now it's not the agenda that comes monetary sovereignty and wants to abolish the national currency against the will of the citizens. And what I've been trying to tell you all along is that the EU is a non-democratic creation. It's not a creation where it's a crucial role for citizens. All citizens can be against real estate taxes, taxes are introduced, all citizens or most citizens may be against the introduction of the euro, the removal of kuna, but what does the government care about? The government will say no, it doesn't matter what you do anyway. So the question arises, is the EU in its essence agreeing to democracy? From what we can see, there is a war on democracy in the EU. And here's an example, all the directives that come from the EU have to be accepted by the Member States, so what we do here is people ask me if you can do something, I often say that in this House I only decide on the length of the debate, but in the same way, and when these directives come to Croatia for the vote, we also do not decide, but we can only influence the length of the debate. And what's going on? A prime minister who should be, show courage and manhood, who should show state qualities, who should fight for the better life of this people that he belongs to, what does he do? He makes moves that will damage him in the long term and in the short term. The only truth in me he said is the word European project. What our citizens are experiencing today is the economic policy that the EU imposes on us, it is indeed a European project, but the European dream is slowly but surely turning into a nightmare and unfortunately our citizens must leave our country, that is a fact, and you are responsible. And you said you'd stop young people from leaving, etc. And I'll tell you one last thing, Mr. Plenkovic, you tell me you're Pernar and you're from the Living Wall, you're populists and demagogues. Mr Plenkovic, did I promise people a better life when they join the EU, that they will have more salaries, that they will cheapen food, that they will grow living standards, that jobs will be opened? No, that's what you and your HDZ colleagues promised demagogue citizens, unlike us from the Living Wall who told the people the truth about what awaits them in the EU. Did I, Mr. Plenkovic, promise to open new jobs, and jobs have never been less? Did I promise people a VAT reduction like you and your predecessors, and then I don't know a thousand euros for a new child, so Sanader promised to repay the foreign debt and that I know everything? So we all know your promises were falsely pre-election. Now who is she, the demagogue and the populist? Did I give how Prime Minister Sanader had that guaranteed card and what did Karamarko promise you, including the president who promised to be one of the richest countries in the EU, and it turns out that Bulgaria and Romania both passed us? We are becoming the poorest country in the EU. All the things you promised to do the opposite, and to us who caught you in a lie, who we say gentlemen, everything you said you lied to, you did everything from what you said. You're demagogues, you're populists. What are we talking about here, gentlemen of the HDZ, who is the demagogue and the populist? Who's the demagogue and the populist in this whole swim story with you SDP gentlemen? You were saying I remember like yesterday, when it was a campaign to open 500 new jobs a week. And what happened? A week 500 young people left our country, and that resulted in fewer unemployed people on the market. And you knew not to open jobs but to get these people out of the country, but in the Goebbels manner throughout the campaign you repeated that 500 new jobs were being opened weekly. So go gentlemen to Slavonia, look at the villages, every other house is empty. Are those the jobs? Ladies and gentlemen, but there's one more thing I want to tell you. I've been walking for the last week or so for ten days in Croatia for three actions and I can tell you Mr. Plenkovic that she's talking about your executive law that will stop the raids was actually a lie. Just before, or if I'm not mistaken yesterday, I was in Jaska because of the loan of an illegal RBA cooperative from Austria, people were almost disembarked. I was on Krk last week too. So here's Mr. Plenkovic, so who's there, demagogue and populist if you don't? So did I tell people that this law will stop them from the only home? No, Mr. Plenkovic, it was you and you've been lying and lying to this people for the last 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56584	We have three replicas, the first of which is a respected colleague, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56585	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, first of all, let me say that Croatia did not join the EU so that only to be a member, it has entered to be a stronger and stronger country and to achieve some of its rights, opportunities and to take advantage of the advantages that the EU has. And the worst approach is just to get in somewhere to be a member. Or enter the euro zone to have the euro. It's a wrong approach, and we have to fight it. And that way, you can perform. There are very many EU countries that do not have the euro. There are some who are 30 years of EU members who do not have the euro. I don't see why Croatia would push into the euro zone, as they did, now at the presentation, people from the government together with the governor of the National Bank, because I also think it's not the time to rush into the euro area and open up stories at all, that we will enter in a certain period. When we are ready, when the economy is ready, when our people evaluate it, then Croatia will fulfil its commitment from the accession contract and into its body. I don't see the need to highlight the badge, I introduced Croatia into the euro zone and thus did something. We don't have to do anything for Europe, we have to work for ourselves, for Croatian and Croatian citizens. And therefore, I agree with you that at this time it is not the time for the euro, but I do not agree with you that everything is negative and that it is negative that Croatia is an EU member. But I believe that we must fight for our position, that we may be stronger, that we may benefit more from this Union for ourselves, not be aprior or negative against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56586	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56587	Mr. Maras, the core, that is, the essence of the whole story that the Living Wall tells me, is not whether the euro will be introduced today, tomorrow, in 5 or 10 years. But the bottom line is that this whole process in our country has gone in the wrong direction, and that we must not go, to the euro, but to resuscitate our monetary system. That the Croatian state must have its own central bank, which creates money, not only as a currency exchange. That's the point of our story. It is not our goal to introduce the euro later, in 5 years for 2 years, in 4 years or 10 years. Our goal is for the kuna to finally become a national currency and to abolish the currency clause on loans and that the kuna, i.e., the Croatian currency reflects the strength of our economy, not to be artificially strong and thus makes import products cheaper than they should be and consequently there is a breakdown of the production economy, growth of unemployment, etc. Unfortunately, Mr. Maras, you and HDZ have agreed to a humiliating accession contract. And here's why, because when the UK entered the EU, although it is now coming out, because it has seen that this is a failed story, it has asked that in an access contract that they do not have to introduce the euro, that they can remain their national currency pounds and they have never intended to move on to the euro. But you incompetents, you didn't fight for it, you didn't say when you joined the EU, Croatia will decide whether to introduce the euro or not. But you pushed us into this false European democracy, where you did not actually leave a choice for Croatia. Where it's only a matter of time before we have to take off our gigs and accept the euro. That's the policy you SDP and HDZ gentlemen have been running for the past 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56588	Okay. I would have you before I give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, only to beg, therefore, we are discussing the report from the European Council meeting. These weren't the subject of that meeting at all, these are some topics... The leaders of the Member States decide on that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In order for us to talk at all, we have to be there. But I'm asking you to try to narrow down the debate, because then we can talk about everything and then we'll waste time and we won't be able to talk about any other topics today. A colleague of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56589	My colleague Pernar was a little carried out, and probably in his debate he may have unwittingly accused someone, or you, unidentified representatives or people in certain articles, of pushing Croatia into the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56590	What article, just tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56591	He was injured in 238, so his colleague said the wrong information. So Croatia was pushed into the EU by Croatian citizens in a referendum largely voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56592	Comrade Maras, come on, no, no broken Rules of Procedure, you know very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56593	First please, colleague Maras, come on, so please don't treat the MPs. Say you're wrong, you're right, but colleague Maras, come on, please, I mean we're not what you'd say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56594	We didn't get into the combination.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56596	Yeah. You don't know what I mean, you'll find out. Let's move on, two replicas, comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56597	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pernar, we are listening here today to the diameter of Plenkovic accusing the Living Wall of pulsism, and you have correctly cited a detail that shows that HDZ is currently serving itself with the worst possible pulsism. They serve a school example of populism, which is to change the Constitution according to the needs of their own party. So in 2010, HDZ changed the constitution so that it could organise a referendum on going out, on Croatia's entry into the EU, and as you yourself said, 3 people could go out to this referendum and vote, and on the other hand it does not allow citizens to even ask the question of a referendum without 400,000 signatures. So why didn't you at least collect those 400,000 signatures, so you said, here we are playing a game like all the other Croatian citizens. To make things more, so it's populism, Mr. Plenkovic, a party constitution. And you are announcing it again, again, as your shadow is called, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare announces that he will change the Constitution because of... legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So watch out, they want to change the constitution, so HDZ gets more votes in the Parliament. So where are you going with the greater pulsism?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56598	Comrade Bunjac, you're replicating your colleagues to Pernar, not the crossing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56599	That's right, so I'm up to the presentation of Agent Pernar who said we were accused of populism and that's what the prime minister himself said during his presentation, so I stick to what was said during this debate. And that's why I'd like to simply warn myself that here the thesis is being replaced, or not to tell the truth, we're being accused of populism from the mouth of the greatest populist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56600	Let's move on, third replica of the esteemed colleague, have you heard from him? I'm sorry, I didn't see that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56601	A colleague of Bunjac, so I, if I am not mistaken, wrote Mrs Maletic from HZ that when HDZ comes to power, here is Mr Plenkovic, that there will be 200,000 jobs or 100,000, as many as possible. It was the cover at the lie factory... How much? [[You can't hear it.]] 180,000 jobs. Well, that was the cover of that lie factory called the Morning List in the Masonic Press, that said there, Mr. Bunjac. And those people who are irresponsible are the ones who approach voters as if they're stupid, promising to do something they know they won't do before they promise to do it, these are the people who accuse me and you and my colleague Sincic of demagogy, pulsism and I already know you. So lying to people in the eyes, so it's worse, even worse than demagogy and pulsism, it's black propaganda and with the help of this black propaganda, with the help of lies but not the lies of some subtle ones, it's not about the lies that are visible from the plane, about how Croatia grows and has economic growth. So, Mr. Plenkovic, do you really think Croatia is experiencing economic growth? They're telling us, Mr. Bunjac, that we're growing, the country's in front of bankruptcy, the same policy in Agrokor that's been conducted with borrowing, implemented in the country, identical politics. The number of bad loans, private and legal persons, i.e. in legal persons, is already 50% credit for bad loans. So do they see where they're taking us? And when we say people, so do you see which direction you're taking, we need to change something, and not only are we talking, then the whole people are demagogue and populist, 75% of them who say this policy should end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56602	Okay. Last line, dear colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56603	Dear colleague Pernar, you in the HDZ criticism very often guess but sometimes you are not precise enough. So in 2010, they couldn't have changed the Constitution without us. And when you give them credit for changing the Constitution in 2010, don't forget us. So we agreed with them to facilitate the implementation of a referendum on EU accession because the provisions of the Constitution at that time were not good. And that's why we changed them. Although we still conditioned them to reduce the number of representatives from the diaspora to three, they resented us a little, but we could have been even more, we could have been even more firm in that, so that part I would ask you not to forget in the future. Secondly, in the 2012 referendum, and I remember that because at the time of the 20 days he was minister of administration, a million and 945 thousand full-time citizens of the Republic of Croatia came out, which is more than 50% of the adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were currently listed in the Republic of Croatia by the census and only because we were not able to get a list of voters in time because it was only 20 days of office, it was formally below 50% but it was really over 50% of Croatian citizens. A million and 286 thousand citizens of free will said they wanted Croatia in the EU, and 647 thousand also said they do not want Croatia in the EU. I think that the Croatian people, or Croatian citizens, made a good decision on that referendum, and I am very glad that I contributed at least a little bit to that, so I ask you to put it down as well. And thirdly, it's actually symbolic. On the day before the second round of the first multilateral elections in the Republic of Zagreb, the song Eurovision was held where it was quite symbolicly defeated by the song, if you remember, and you were 5 years old then, you may not remember, Insieme unieme, enter Europe. Therefore, I am glad that we are in the EU, and Euroscepticism is your political platform, but don't at least forget us when you criticize us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56604	And do you remember the song "Let's Go Crazy"? But it left a longer trail than... Comrade Pernar, here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56605	Dear ladies and gentlemen, what can I say to you, what can I say to you, I'll say only the following. You say we have entered the EU with the will of citizens, and ladies and gentlemen, if memory serves me well, the accession treaty with the EU was concluded before the referendum was at all. This is one serious detail and the goal of your entire campaign was to discourage those who are opposed to the EU from attending the referendum. But here are the ladies and gentlemen, you who are the opponents of this European project presented today by Mr Plenkovic, who is returning to us, I would say the revolving door from Brussels because he keeps going to Brussels and going back to Brussels. I call on you to support the Living Wall in the elections because we are the only opponents of the European project, which according to our own recognition is both HDZ and SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56606	Next debate, individual, esteemed colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56607	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. First one small remark, means normally that the contract was signed earlier when the referendum voted on the contract. So it's a logical sequence, so the referendum didn't pass then it was worth the contract Croatia signed. But what I want to say here today and what is essentially the subject of this point and the meeting of the European Council, this is good to get as information, and it should welcome both the tenacity and the patience and diligence of our prime minister who has been listening to our debates here all day, it's all nice. But I would like Mr Plenkovic to see in these reports clear and firmer views of you as the one who represents us there and to see direct benefits for the Republic of Croatia than those meetings. It means supporting certain positions agreed by larger countries in terms of migration or digital economy or digitalisation of public administration. That is good, but where is Croatia, or what are our views which are clear and that is my question to you, which clearly directs the views of the European Council, i.e. EU countries or European leaders. It is absolutely clear that all these topics are very much affected by the particular migrations that I would say in the crisis over the past few years as a country have successfully survived without some major traumas such as those faced by other countries. But again I say we lack your clearer attitudes and what you have managed to fight within the European Council. Because Croatia has not requested entry into the European Union and wants to join the EU only to be a member, it does not mean anything in this way unless it has a clear benefit for our citizens, unless there is a clear Croatian policy that will direct the European Union and unless we are a strong EU member. What I am particularly interested in and what I am trying to highlight in every debate on security and defence I think that Croatia does not have good priorities within its borders, that the decision taken by the Croatian Government and which is beginning to take place next year, which is to spend enormous funds on buying fighter aircraft until, for example, our people in the education system, teachers do not have adequate pay increases. And those priorities that the HDZ government has chosen for me are completely missed. And on this side, if we are already participating in these discussions, is it even necessary to spend our budgets in this way? Is it necessary to spend billions and billions of kunas just to, for example, make our minister of defense or maybe you feel important because we have a squadron of 12 fighter planes? Is it more important for us that our school teachers have 1,000 or two kunas to pay or that we have 12 fighter planes to sell us some foreign military industry? And on the other hand, I would like to see when you are discussing, let's say, security in defence where we had a proposal, support from the European Council, a proposal from the European Commission to set up a European defence industry development programme. Where are our entrepreneurs? Where are our companies, successful companies that can participate in the common market and thus have certain benefits for the Croatian economy. As far as certain things that have been discussed are concerned, I find it particularly interesting that this part that is being discussed about the programme of leaders is, unfortunately, what we see from each of these programs and meetings is of principle nature. So in designing the programme of leaders, we are guided by solving problems, real problems that will go one step at a time, and that will be crucial to maintaining the unity of members. That's almost every time the practice, or every time it's written in the report. And what I want to say here is that our problems, or the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, are not identical to the problems of other countries, and I would particularly draw attention again to this debate that we had just before on the monetary union where I believe that Croatia and where you should, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council, express a clear view of our citizens who are not prone to rapid entry into the monetary union. So we don't need the euro right now. And someone will say you signed it, you made a commitment, but that doesn't mean that it has to be implemented during the period in which you imagined it, which is an extremely fast period, and almost no EU Member State has decided to join the monetary union so quickly. For example, Denmark, which has been a member for almost several decades, means 30 years, still today it has no euro as its currency. Which is why Croatia should have this when its economy is not ready, if this would directly reflect the standard of Croatian citizens and when we are losing one important tool that could help us recover our economy. In the absence of other solutions, in the absence of solving INA, Agrokora, leaving people from the Republic of Croatia offers us an essay by the Government a solution that seemingly can be applied very quickly. But de facto doesn't mean anything good to our fellow citizens. And for once again, I'm asking you to sit at the European Council meetings, but also in public communication, a little bit of banning, I apologize, this is very important, I'd like to see the diameter hear it, that the diameter hears it, so here I am a little paused. So I'd like to ask you in public space, Mr. Plenkovic, to take charge of Croatia's not-so-quick entry into the monetary union. Now it looks like it is the most important thing Croatia needs to do in the next period. I think that it is not for the benefit of our citizens at this time, I think we need to do a lot more before Croatia is ready for this step and please, and that on the next European councils you present Croatian politics in this way. Not because of me, which is personally my position, but you are aware that it is in the Republic of Croatia, the attitude of most of our citizens. That's what all the relevant polls show. I don't think you're going into the accuracy of these polls that have been published over the past few days or weeks, which say over 60% of our citizens don't want Croatia to enter the monetary union as quickly as your government does, that is, the governor of the CNB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56608	Believe it or not, there's no replica. Let's move on, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, also individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56609	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister. I know that you believe that everything is wonderful in Croatia, and I know that it becomes issues that do not ask you in the EU. However, I know these issues affect Croatian citizens. And since you haven't been asked these questions in Brussels, I'd like to ask you a few questions. He says, like this, ask Plenkija, he thinks of you, Mr. Plenkovic, if Manulić has resisted Greguric and the greatest crime, that he is guilty of what happened in Agrokor, which needs to be revealed more than that. He says this way, ask the gentlemen of power and opposition, what they did with the dairy industry and agriculture. It is a serious question, Mr Plenkovic, that you were asked in the European Commission, what are you doing with the dairy industry and agriculture. It goes on, if you can ask the diameter of 2 questions, do you want your children well. And then the second question, if you want your children well, why do someone else's harm. I don't suppose that's what the gentlemen of the European Commission asked you either. Here, he says like this, ask Pelnki equally super Hika if he's aware of how, come on, this is an ugly word, with all his haughtiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56610	Comrade Pernar, I beg you again, so we can't talk about it that way. So it comes out of the context of a proper debate. So you can work and argue, but don't put people in an awkward situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56611	All right, I'll ask you this. I want to ask Plenkovic, that's what Katarina Jakupec asks, when she'll resign? Didn't he yet realize that the people didn't want him in the place he took. By polling 75% of citizens, I am deeply interested in Mr Plenkovic, did the European Commission ask you that question? Here's a pie. Ask him where the money is. Here, so the money's gone, the money's gone, Mr. Todorovic's in London, ate the donkey wolf, nothing again. Here are some more questions, he says, how could the euro be good? I'm in Germany, it's more expensive than we are because it's in euro. And people live better again. What's this about? The point is that in Germany, the salary is 2000 euros, and we have 25000 kn. Well, that's our problem. That's what a man wants to show you. It's not a debate about whether it's the euro or the kuna, it's a debate about what the salary is. What you don't want to do, Mr. Plenkovic, is raise a minimum wage of 2600 kn. People live in severe misery, so they can't live at £2600, so you know it. And try to imagine what kind of work these people have to do for 2600 kn. And Croatian citizens, if you came before them and said I wanted to raise wages and pensions, they would clap on you, but you don't go to the citizens with that program. You're going in front of the citizens with the program, how you're going to introduce another currency that will in practice still collect things, and the wages won't grow. The essential question, sir, is this, will wages and pensions grow after the introduction of the euro? Yes or no? Are you ready to answer that question and have you in the EU asked it in the European Commission? You know the answer is no. And then the second question, which continues on this, is whether certain things will be collected or better said, whether they'll be cheaped. We know that by introducing the euro, it won't cost anything, but there's a lot to be collected in return, yes. And what good are citizens benefiting from that, Mr. Plenkovic, obviously nothing. And that's what your motives are all about. I'll say next, I'll say next, just for a second, why are electricity bills coming in more and more expensive? And tell him that when people stop paying their bills because they don't have any money, then he won't get paid, because no one's gonna charge his cash. Yes, Mr. Plenkovic, electricity bills are getting more expensive. The collection of electricity is also one of your government's programs. And I have to remind you that when the SDP was collecting electricity, then HDZ was condemning those power purchases, you're picking it up yourself. Keep your eyes open, Mr. Plenkovic's question. Was he born without shame? How does that man have no conscience? In this situation, when much of the citizens are clear that they robbed this country, you act so arrogantly and arrogantly. To talk about how things work, to deceive you still. What should the citizens do to get you out of power? Is this man got home television, he's got healthy eyes so he can turn around and see how people live in this country? Does she see poverty, sick children who can't get medication? Did he see old people with miserable pensions? 10,000 people in Croatia have a pension of 500 kuna or less. Have you been asked about the fate of these people from the European Commission? He says yes, people dig in containers, mutilations, do you see that, Mr. Plenkovic? Maybe you can't see. And if you don't see it, it's because you're probably just following the state television that doesn't show these things. He says shame can be him and you can tell him that regardless of all the money they steal, I would never want to be in their skin, my conscience just couldn't stand it. That's what a girl who has a baby texted me. Here's another question for Mr. Plenkovic, why the authorities don't investigate where Mr. Todorovic's 10,000 pounds of bail is supposed to be frozen. That's also an interesting question. You say you've frozen his accounts and he's pulling £10000 off his sleeve. Next, when will the construction of state-owned rental apartments begin? We eternal tenants who don't want to enter residential loans can't pay rent anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56612	Comrade Pernar, colleague Pernar, please, you are not really in the subject, here I let you go, I ask you to stick to the topic, the subject is the report on the meeting of the European Council. This has nothing to do with it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56613	Here, I'll ask you specifically Have you been asked from the European Commission what you intend to do with Slavonia which is misery, sadness and desolation? [[Intruder President: Yes.]] Thanks and a big hello. Mr. Plenkovic, I know that you live in a parallel reality, I know that what I'm talking about doesn't touch you, to your heart, I know that you believe that you can do what you want. So I ask you, if you can really wish for something good to our country and our people, that is, to do something that is in our favor. And finally, instead of listening to the Brussels directive, you start to listen to the wishes and prayers of our citizens. Citizens cry out, Mr. Plenkovic, citizens are hungry and thirsty for better life and justice and because you don't give it to them they're running away from this country. Why are you turning your head on what I'm telling you? You have no shame. Citizens expect you to have a better life and some solutions. Apart from demagogy and pulsism and loose promises that do not help those who dig through containers, who block accounts, which work, etc., who have no business, who have to move out, are full of buses Mr. Plenkovic's young people leaving the country. So what do you have to tell them? All the young people who come to the Parliament here talk to us all saying they're thinking about leaving this country. So how can you turn your head and say that problem to me I don't care. Please do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56614	We have a replica of a respected colleague, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56615	Representative Ivan Pernar, for weeks, months, days, from session to session, you call us, insult us, and you may have noticed that we do not appear to you for replication or answer to you. And you know why we don't? Because we can't be offended by someone who's been on someone else's back their whole life. Who hasn't done anything in his whole life but just calling, insulting, having sex with others and doing it now. Who is he insulting and calling? People who have a career behind them, people who have created something, people who care about this country and their fellow citizens and who are called Ivan Pernar. And we keep listening to you and you don't offer anything. What did you offer, what did you do in your life specifically except show up for some kind of action, follow yourself, follow the media, and then laugh? Destroy the institution of this Parliament. You're eating my pizza there in the hall of honor under the paintings and statues of the people who created this country. And who does that? Ivan Pernar. What did John Pernar create in life, who is behind him? And you keep calling us now and for the third time, and you're gonna answer your word again. We keep quiet, no one tells you anything, no one suits you, but don't insult me. Don't insult people by their names and names who have created something in life. Show what you created, which is behind you, and then speak as you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56616	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56617	And look, when you take 23 million kunas from state-owned companies and refuse to put them back in the budget or the companies from which you sucked them out. And then when people tell you look you're thieves it offends you. You say you created Croatia, I don't know, all of this. And that's true. This is everything that happens today in Croatia that you created, you are the creators of this economic system that leads the country to ruin. You're asking what our proposals are. Well, we've made specific suggestions, sir. I don't know if you're following up recently was a debate about whether banks should return overpaid interest. In fact, the banks illegally raised interest and the court claimed that it was illegal to raise interest and that the banks had no right to do so. And then when we proposed that the money be returned to the citizens that the banks had taken away from them and apparently had no right for each citizen to enter a court dispute separately, it means that on the basis of a collective court ruling that the directive should be given to the banks what they did not have the right to return to, you gentlemen of the HDZ voted against. So how dare you say we don't have a concrete proposal? There will now be a proposal for concrete legalisation of hemp. It was a subject of voluntary vaccination. There will be a motion, sir, on the divisions that it is no longer mandatory to introduce divisors, that people can be excluded from the heat system if they want to. Is that what you're interested in? When you raised VAT to the caterers, I gave the amendment not to rise to 25% from 13%, you all voted against. And now you call me here and you silence me that what I did specifically. So what exactly did you do besides ruin the whole country? Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56618	Don't be angry with your colleague Pernar. Don't be mad, slowly. Everyone makes their arguments in a civilised debate. Sometimes it's not easy to hear criticism on your own account. We listen to them all the time, and you have to listen to them on your own account. Comrade Bunjac, here you go. Individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56619	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I responded to this debate, prompted by the prime minister's statement that the Living Wall is used by pulsism, that it does not offer arguments in the debate and that the EU has essentially brought good to Croatia. I don't want to talk here now, let's say, about the programme "Reliable" which I hope the Prime Minister read, where it was discussed that VAT will be reduced this year to 24%, where it was discussed how to stop the acquisitions from the only real estate, that it would not be sold HEP. None of this has happened, and it shows in itself what credibility those who abuse that word have. What I want to talk about, I want to talk about the EU and about that statement that the referendum and EU accession process was democratic. So here is concrete, according to the index of democracy conducted by international institutions, Croatia is at the level of the African state of Ghana and bears the official name of lack of democracy. This is not what MP Ivan Pernar or representative Branimir Bunjac said but what the international community officially rated. So if the international community calls Croatia's democracy flawed and puts it in Central Africa, I do not understand the prime minister who here says that democracy is brighter and that the referendum was thus democratic. The referendum was undemocratic because there was no quality public debate, which only the EU lobbyists received in the media, and those who were for sovereign and independent Croatia were medialy eliminated or were able to make their views known to some Internet forums. Also as I said by ruling HDZ then with normal SDP co-operation, they are his biggest fans, here is Mr. Klisovic supporting everything that Andrej Plenkovic says, they have changed the Constitution, the constitution that brought the first president of the Republic of Croatia to force Croatian citizens to join the EU. It wasn't free will. And now look at one thing, then it voted out of that minority who went to the 66% referendum, and today the EU according to official statistics, not according to my will or my assessment supports 36% of citizens. And now you imagine a democracy in Croatia where 64% of citizens are against the EU, and in the Parliament you have 95% of the MPs who are in favour. What kind of democracy are we talking about? And how is that possible? Well, because of media manipulation and electoral engineering, and now we see that Mr. Shex's gray eminence medals want to further tighten electoral legislation to turn Croatia into HDZ's feudal lazy. It will be Croatia d.o.o. a limited liability company owned by the HDZ and under the European Commission's big cap. And so Croatia will be not to say anything rougher, auspuh EH in which we will be on a table where there is a feast, but not for us to get crumbs to feed on. And the question is, what do we decide in the EU if we have 11 MPs of 751 in the europarliament, if we are discussing regulations and directives here in the Parliament that cannot change the content, if the EU prescribes 70% of the legislation in the Republic of Croatia, and our fragile economy represents less than 1% of the European economy. And I would really like to, be careful 4.5 years have passed since EU entry, not 4.5 days, 4.5 years, we can see first results, first consequences. I would like to see and see that the Croatian village flourished since those four years, that peasants are rich, that youth unemployment is reduced, emigration, I would like to see jobs open, wages and pensions grow, to reduce the number of social cases. And if I saw the flock, Mr. Prime Minister, I'd congratulate you, I'd shake your hand, I'd say you have my vote, and I'd pull out of politics. Here's what you'd do, I'm telling you in public right now. But I see everything the opposite and not only me but 75% of Croatian citizens and these 64% who no longer support Croatia's EU accession. I'll get you the official information. The Croatian village has collapsed since its entry into the EU, not only dairy, but livestock, food production, people have moved out. People's health has deteriorated, according to official statistics, Croatia is only European bottom according to citizens' standards. Listen carefully, by quality, by competitiveness, by wages, by pensions, by using European funds, by the speed of the internet, by youth employment, by child poverty, by gender equality, by family trips to excursions, by health of teeth, by cancer mortality, by birth, by organic food production, by waste management, by the separation of education, science and culture I repeat Croatia at the very European bottom. And here you are talking the EU has done us well, I am a successful prime minister and we are growing. That's not true. You have done absolutely nothing, neither you nor your policy within the EU, to improve the situation of Croatian citizens, and at least you have offered solutions. We haven't seen any solutions. And your minister sitting next to you has not offered any solution and represents some social policy. What improved the life of these social cases in Croatia? Where did the homeless drop? Where do you reduce the number of dissections? Well, that's your "Reliable" program. Your program! And you dare say that you don't implement your own program to someone that's a populist. You have a face. And now you'll be talking about what a great minister you are and the prime minister will defend you with all his heart to disown you in two months, just like former Minister Barisic. These are your facts, Mr. Prime Minister or Prime Minister. These are your arguments of official statistics and then stick to the metrics and tell me how things are and say yes, we're at the bottom. But the man at the bottom, and then there's no other way but to go up. And it can go up by implementing reforms, it can go up so as not to transfer responsibility to others, not to point the finger at the opposition, not to point the finger at the Living Wall, but to seek their support, to listen to them, to achieve consensus and unity of the Croatian people. That way you can go forward. First you should admit the truth, and then you could only come up with something concrete to do. And that's where I want to stand up to you. And stop talking about how we insult you and how pathetic, small and good you are. You're in politics. There's something you can do. You have the ruling majority. Not quite legitimate, though, but you do have and start implementing reforms. And you will implement reforms in such a way that in the EU in which we are still formally fighting for what the Croatian citizens are struggling with. And Croatian citizens do not care how much gas there will be in the air conditioning that we have to discuss here in the Parliament, spend our lives and valuable time, but Croatian citizens are interested in solving key problems of Croatian politics, economy and society in general. And when you do it again, I don't know if you've heard me, I'll really congratulate you and I'll say here from today I vote for you. Let people have a salary of 1000 euros and pensioners have 700 euros and a solution. Here's a very simple one. We're not looking for much of you. Don't ask anyone to become Rockefeller to drive the Mercedes and I don't know what, just so we live normally, here's nothing else. Just that we normally live from pay to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56620	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56621	Thank you very much. I've been listening to you and my colleague Pernar for a long time, and I've been trying to get back and remember what you suggested here. And one thing I remembered you suggested as your program is six stems per capita hemp for personal recreation. It means something that people should be recreational. You said six. I don't know why you didn't say eight or a half squares. I don't know 100 squares or a hectare so we could all laugh in the Republic and make everything happy and nice. Here's the only thing you've managed to propose in the last year and we haven't been able to discuss it here in this House, you probably don't agree with that either. You have not yet referred this to the procedure, but here we are simply waiting to remember the Living Wall and that mandate that you have done or you will do with 6 hemp stems for all Croats individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56622	I thank my colleague, Boric, for the replica. Answer me, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56623	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric. It's interesting that you've memorized six stems. I don't know if you've seen that movie when the lambs shut up and one psychiatrist says "everyone scratches where it it itches" you know, and it's symptomatic that you've memorized it. That maybe I think it has something to do with maybe I don't know about any subconscious desires, which I do. However, I would like to warn you that since you sleep in the ears as you say yourself, that the Living Wall in the procedure referred to a dozen laws that some have already been to debate, some come these days, and some of these days surrender. Ten laws. It is in rank let me say something on my behalf in the rank of SDP almost, which has 10 times as many representatives as we and much stronger logistics. We've given countless amendments. Well, I'm here alone in Parliament at least 25 amendments defends personally. We've sent in parliamentary questions. How many parliamentary questions have we sent? How many times have I spoken here in the Parliament? How many times have you said, how many times have I? How many times have I lost my job? Look how many times in the debate, so there's a leak in your benches when there's no Prime Minister, there's no one there. There is a couple of MPs sitting in Miro Bulj, Pernar, me and Sabina Vosovac and Gordan Maras. And of course you don't hear anything. So what would you hear when you weren't here? You should come to the hearing first, and then you'll hear it. So I don't know, you're talking about some seriousness. You show your degree, I'll do yours, and we'll compare who did what in life. Was I being protected by the party while I was making progress in my life? Did I have support? I had a dad in HDZ? I didn't. Well, don't act so arrogant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56624	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you not to enter the word of your colleague Bunjc when he responds to the replica. We have another replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56625	Dear Comrade Bunjac, I opened it myself yesterday. He looked at the cover for 24 hours, said that hungry kids in schools were falling unconscious, that they were ashamed to say they were hungry. And just when I see such information, my heart tightens and I wonder what the government is doing about it. Unfortunately, nothing. And this government is the government that meddles in my troubles and crime, and they convince all of us that we're weird in the head, that we're stupid, stupid, that we just don't have the skills, etc., and that they all know that they're doing good, etc. Well, here's the ladies and gentlemen of the Agrokor case, so it's been covered up for 20 years, it's been muddying for 20 years, it's been stealing for 20 years. Well, it's not my opinion that the DORH is saying now, and you've been protecting Todorovic for 20 years, covering what he was doing, and you've been holding his ladder, and now that the entire pyramid scheme has collapsed, you're doing the circus now, and he's waving to you from London and you're trying to get all the blame off of him. So it's not possible that he's guilty of everything because what he did could never have been done without the help of all of you. And your colleague Bunjac points to what you need to do. You need to reduce the division of society and stop causing an aversion to the people. But you, with your policy that insists on going against the will of the people, show that you don't care about the disappearance of social divisions, but on the contrary, you would dare to say electrocute the atmosphere, and sometimes, as in the case of real estate taxes and heat, where you've just recently given up on that harrasus, an imposition that hasn't existed on our premises since the Turkish era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56626	I thank my colleague Pernar. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56627	Thank you very much. Representative Pernar, so you have very well stated that a system of priorities has been disrupted in Croatia. I understand that they are amazing and brilliant and halls in Brussels, these meetings, receptions, beautiful shoes, cell phones, cars with drivers, but our politicians would have to be the ones you're talking about. His priority should be people sleeping on the floor at Imported Centres and Parks today in the city of Zagreb, you do not have a bench that is free to sleep on. That should be the priorities, those kids you're talking about. 20% of Croatian citizens live below the poverty threshold and for so long until this issue is resolved, there is nothing to walk in some Brussels, Malta in Frankfurt or what I know where. 24 hours a day, those problems need to be dealt with, so when you solve the problem of 10 thousand homeless people then say, "Now I'm going to Brussels to hear what a Juncker gentleman tie is saying or I don't know which one." These should be priorities because we are members of our people, now only if we say, and it doesn't matter what I am, it doesn't matter what Croatia is then it's a different thing, but then it should be said openly. Let's go solve these problems. So why did the Living Wall come into existence in the first place? So what did the Living Wall come up with to enter the Parliament to make it our purpose of life. Well, we were created because Croatia fell into a deep and difficult crisis, and no one wanted to hear it, and now here we are, but our support has grown to 10.5% and it will grow to you. And why is that? Why, explain? Because you run a genius policy, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56628	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. Final word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56629	Dear ladies and gentlemen. Today I encountered an anemic approach to my presentations by the Prime Minister who did not enter the duels at all for some of his known reasons. He may say that the issue that hungry children crash through schools is not important, that the question that people sleep on benches and trams does not matter, that the question that people in thousands leave the country does not matter, that VAT is 25% that it does not matter, that we are the only country in the EU where the executions are carried out by public notebooks instead of courts, that it does not matter, that the introduction of GMO cultures for the diet of the population and it probably does not matter if the directive was true. It's just that whatever topic is being touched that is relevant to 330 thousand blocked citizens doesn't matter. Activities, it doesn't matter that it's not a problem, we've had three in the last week in Croatia. What question does it matter to you, Mr. Plenkovic? Does it matter how many official travels you have, what is your relationship with Juncker, whether your old friend or not? What's yours I don't know about commitment? So here's what my colleague Bulj was saying, then he was wondering in style as if he was trying to say that maybe there was something more to it than just some spontaneous touch, etc. between you and Juncker. But Mr. Plenkovic, the public is not interested in answering these questions about Juncker. The public is interested in answering questions as to why you want to introduce the euro even though citizens are against it, although it is obvious from the plane that it will not lead to the cost of anything, but in return it will lead to a lot of other things. And you don't want to talk about it. You say I don't care what the citizens think, I don't care, I can do what I want. Is that an approach? So imagine I'm the prime minister and you're telling me Mr. Pernar so the kids are starving at school, and I say what I care, I can do anything I want or I can do what I want. So what? Mr. Plenkovic, you should ask yourself why government support falls, why does 75% of citizens think the state is going in the wrong direction? But it doesn't matter to you. I'm funny to you here, I'm a clown here. I'm a regular here, and you're a serious man. Okay. Let it be for you. Stick the clown tag to me, tell me these problems that Pernar's talking about, that's bullshit, I'm a great prime minister. You've got a 60-pultron panel that'll give you a round of applause. But Mr. Plenkovic, the ones who clap to you here today, you know what kind of team that is? Well, that's your team from the Emperor's new piece of shit. They all see what I say, but they lick you up, they raise you up, they tell you what you want to hear. I'm being attacked by a remote control. And as soon as you leave here, they'll leave. Well, they don't care at all about the fate of the state or the party, and at least believe me about us. And as much as you think that your problem is us from the Living Wall, your bigger problem is the Croatian people who no longer support you, and these MPs who tomorrow, as they blamed Karamark for all the problems in the party and liquidated him from the political life, tomorrow these same MPs will liquidate you from the position of HDZ president because all your predecessors are equally finished. Don't be and live in an illusion. Well, you remember what I said to God Petrov when he was sitting behind my back. I told him the ones you're protecting right now will take your head off. He laughed at me, and later on, when you knocked him down, he showed me my speech, and then he said I can't believe that Pernar was warning me. Here's Mr. Plenkovic, I'm warning you today if you don't do something wrong, it's written politically. Cheers!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56630	I thank my colleague Pernar. We have one replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56631	Thank you very much, Reverend Pernar. So I don't mind one day discussing these topics as well. But it's just funny to me, I literally find it funny, at least it's sad that we're discussing this while outside the building people are digging up garbage to find a bottle of half a kuna. Watch out for the wealth of half a kuna. But you know how many are in one bucket? 20 of them. And you can't collect 10 kunas before 7.8 hours walk from bucket to bucket. Let's get all your buckets, then come on. But it needs to be quick! Now, you know, out here digging through the trash, I'm gonna come over and watch what I tell him. Do you know what you're digging up cans that the European Council welcomes the implementation of the European Investment Bank economy resistance initiative that mobilises investment in neighbouring countries? You know that? Then I'll ask him. Here, she looks forward to a debate on cooperation with African partners at the upcoming meeting at the summit of the African Union and the European Union. So you tell me who's interested? What are we discussing here? So go outside and help the man. Please, now that you're going out, don't jump in the car right now, but go for a walk and say five kunas for 10 bottles, so at least have so much time and humanity to face real life in the Republic. So when I go to the Parliament in the morning when I pass here from this tree over the Stone Gate and meet 20 beggars? Well, I'd have to wear that one little bucket of five kunas to give everyone something. Well, I wouldn't be able to get to work. Do you see that? And what are we talking about? We're talking about how in China I don't know her... Compared to the dollar, it grew or things like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's turn things around, please, for the sake of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56632	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. My colleague Pernar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56633	Comrade Bunjac, what you said is actually a measure of things. People are interested in why children are starving in schools, not how it was at the EU summit and the African Union who knows where. However, if we look at the Prime Minister's report from the meeting with the European Commission, simply all these topics that we are systematically talking about here, simply these topics are not on the agenda, in the sense that colleagues from the European Commission are proposing them on the agenda, and neither is Mr Plenkovic putting them on the agenda. I would like Mr Plenkovic to ask the European Commission we in Croatia have a problem, people are digging through the trash. How am I supposed to handle this? But Plenkovic doesn't care. He thinks it's funny. People who don't have the direction to get the electricity, the water, they're funny to him. The people Hanžekovic massacred on this mission are funny to him. And why is that? Because he can do what he wants. He's the one who says 60% of the citizens don't want the euro, we don't want the gatherings he says ladies and gentlemen that I care what you think. We'll get the euro in. Then we say, Mr. Plenkovic, give at least one piece of shit to make a referendum, let's see how most of those who come out think. There is no referendum that is a message for your Mr. Plenkovic to the Croatian people. I'm not interested in your will, there's only the will of me because I'm the one who can do what I want! It's your policy, Mr. Plenkovic, and you can be ashamed!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56634	I thank my colleague Pernar. Just to remind you, colleague Pernar, that there is a system of sound system in the Croatian Parliament and there is no need to raise your tone so that we hear you very well especially when your microphone is on, thank you very much. The final word of Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56635	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. There are a lot of sayings that I can think of to characterize this part of the debate especially for the last three hours, but I will not say that from the perspective of the Croatian Parliament, but I can't help thinking that this is the lowest level you can find in any Parliament, any Parliament there was a country. This is the bottom of the bottom. And there's nothing funny here, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, when we comment on some MPs. There is only one grave regret, one despair of abuse of the representative institution, the most institutions in Croatia that there are some MPs, and I see that there has been a fascinating coalition in the Croatian Parliament, an actor who will surely deserve to win you in this House of Commons. About such composition, not all of which are of course but part of the Croatian Parliament at this time we have the opportunity to listen, remember, record and conduct a single level of comment discussion which is that they have nothing to do with the subject but have nothing to do with common common sense. And I have to admit that this initiative of mine has been well-intentioned, it wanted to sensitize the Parliament and the Croatian public on European issues, but I've been watching it for a year now, and I'm not sure that we understand each other well. Here's colleague Maras says he doesn't know the views of the government of the Republic of Croatia, so you're not reading, Gordan. You get all the views that the government adopts from all the Council and European Council formations, you get them directly from the President of the Croatian Parliament, they get them from the board, but you don't read, watch out, you were Minister of the Croatian Government the moment we were a member. What you're saying, well it's incomprehensible, colleague Maras, is what you say not to be worthy of the second largest party in the Republic of Croatia but it is not worthy of you that you were a minister in one government that was a member of the EU. I'm telling you openly, with full responsibility because what you're saying now in the last intervention, that's terrible. And I'm looking here at my friend Mr. Mira Bull. He is a man from the Cetina region, certainly watching the anthological series "Man and a Half". There's a series that normally speaks of Vica Buljan, a great man from the people who was the chief of Sinja who then became minister. There's a sequence in an episode that's been etched into my memory where Boris Dvornik, who plays Vica Buljana, is attending a meeting when he's already the minister of fishing for an acquaintance who knows his dad. And this acquaintance was Spiro Guberina, one better than the other, you can imagine the scene he's talking about and says his name is Frano but to call him Panj, the Panj calls him. And he asks him what you need, so he can do some work, and he says if you know anything, he says I don't know anything. And if you're ready where you jump, turn around, say no, no, it's not that big of a fatigue. And if he's smart as a minister, and he says he's not what God's not with. He tells him Boris means you're not smart, you don't know anything and you wouldn't like to get tired, but you're able to caricate in the Croatian Parliament of a man of the Cetina region where I like everyone in a way that creates an aversion of Miro, according to the man of the Chetino area that I love and can be just as man of the people as you and more, but that doesn't mean I can't be the president of the Government of the Republic on the European Council, in Sinj, in Peru, in Vukovar, Umag, Savudrija, wherever you want. Equally engaged, equally serious and responsible. And the key thing to this debate today is for me to really start sharing in people's serious and people's praises. It is the key to what I see in today's debate of the Croatian Parliament which is a parody of serious topics, a topic on which Croatia's future depends. I understand that most of you have not been identified with the country's strategic goals for the past 25 years. If you had identified yourself, at least a little bit if you had participated, if you'd understood the processes, if you'd read something about it, you'd never have performed like this, you'd never have performed like that because you wouldn't have been responsible. We were talking about the impact of social networks. I'm looking at this circus that Mr. Pernar is doing, and that's what you're getting from a very positive, social network on democracy in Croatia. So let's go to the referendum, let's, let's go to the referendums, on any subject, if this was a glass here, we probably wouldn't get a referendum. You have brought a culture of dialogue, a level of debate in the Croatian Parliament, and there is nothing funny about it, believe me. There's nothing funny about it. You're wasting your time, you're wasting the time of people who work here, and worst of all, you're polluting public space with rhetoric that's incorrigible. If someone later says we don't respect institutions, why do you think? Think about it. Why don't they respect them? Just let them watch you. Live or YouTube, and they'll enjoy it. They will wish to be representatives of the Croatian Parliament. They'll want to be politicians. Comrade Maras, so please don't interrupt me now after I stay here for a few hours, listening to the most fascinating exposure of my life. ... No, well, no, you'll be doing the doctoring. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56636	Dear Mr. Maras, allow it to end with a final address, then you will have business opportunities, injuries to the Rules of Procedure and replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56637	You should have said this. But Mr. Maras was supposed to say this for you. You've evolved a lot. You've evolved. Listen to yourself if you don't think I'm right and then such a son of an ira eth judge to think about what you're like. In any case, I think the key topic that we discussed today is important for Croatia and the issue of migration and defence and the issue of digital society and wider European processes. I'm going to do everything in spite of this atmosphere of five hours really infertile and completely unrelated debate with the subject, to sensitize the public on this subject, to sensitize it. And I'm going to do it despite a series of MPs who abuse the subject in this House of Commons. And I will expect a second time from the parliamentary majority not to sit here as a tower for those who abuse the Parliament. Let's have a little debate about the substance, about topics, about key, important processes in Croatian society, not about listening to colleagues who know little or almost nothing about this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56638	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56639	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know if you're afraid of your party president's authority or not, but this is scandalous. We haven't heard this in the Croatian Parliament yet. First, the Croatian Parliament is offended at this level, that this is the lowest level anywhere Prime Minister Plenkovic has seen. So this is an insult to Parliament. Mr Plenkovic, you are in charge of defending democracy in Croatia. 238. To defend the MPs in the Croatian Parliament, not to give them away, to insult them. You should defend anyone who has been elected by the votes of Croatian citizens to debate here. Well, we're not here for you, Mr. Plenkovic. We're here for Croatian citizens. Please don't do this, because you won't shut us up like that, and you're putting yourself in a very awkward situation. This is not the way the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia discusses with representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And... as you finally did at the meeting of the HDZ Presidency, not here in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56640	Comrade Maras, thank you. I also remind you that there is a sound in the Croatian Parliament so that you can hear yourself very well. The second in the future when you call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to highlight the article of the Rules of Procedure which has been injured. You said to throw out a bench that was inappropriate by some colleagues. Third, as regards the insults of the Honorable House and parliamentary representatives, I did not notice that there was any insult, but was a story about the bottom of the discussion of certain individuals, or certain colleagues. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. If you are not satisfied with my explanation, I ask that you be able to object to the committee of directors. Thank you very much. We move on to debates, to replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56641	Thank you very much. I have to admit I'm still under the impression and shock of what happened here. This is not the way the Croatian prime minister should speak in the Croatian Parliament. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not deserve this, and the representatives are there to fight such an approach and to speak what they think is true. At least Mr. Plenkovic sometimes seemed bizarre and inconclusive to you, untrue as you wish. I also listened carefully to the debates in the European Parliament where you were, so there are MPs there who talk about topics that are unimaginable. They have attitudes that are unimaginable, but nobody shuts them up. It's a basic standard of democracy. We are free folk representatives. And if you don't like it, you may not listen, but you will have to come here and you will have to participate in the discussions that the Rules of Procedure provides. And that's your job. Try to figure it out. Everyone in their life doesn't like things at his job, so probably yours. But you have no right to insult the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian National Representatives. For example, I was chosen by 14,000 people. Then why do you insult me in that way? You just before, and indirectly, you said I wasn't reading. I'm a very good material reader. I objected to you. I know what the positions of the Republic of Croatia intervention are, I have objected to your views, that I want to see more of your views, that you intervene, that you say what Croatia wants at these meetings. I didn't think any officials at the Foreign Ministry would define our views that the government would then adopt. I want your more active participation on the topics that are being discussed here, that's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56642	I thank my colleague Maras. Prime Minister Plenkovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56643	You're pulling my tongue from my colleague Maras, but I'm not getting into it. How much do you think your prime minister has performed on the European Council? Remember? Did you hear that maybe? You didn't hear, did you? Okay. Ask around. In any case, colleagues of Maras have their own form, they have their own content, reports that go to the Croatian Parliament are not notes from meetings or notes from meetings or verbating who said what, and if you knew the character of the work of the European Council and the practice that is there then you would understand that this type of report is in detail who, what, when and how it speaks on the European Council, you will not see anywhere in any Parliament of any Member State. And we're here on my initiative with this practice of fellow Maras, and what you're using this for some other topics is another question. In the European Parliament you mention so, ask your colleagues because I see that you are not on the line of your colleague Klisovic, you are on another European road from your colleague Klisovic, I think it would be good to have a coffee because what he was saying today while you were gone is quite the opposite of what you are saying. There's no story about a subject that's not on the agenda. Here's the main thing and so for hours, including you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56644	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Next replica, respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. I have to admit, I'm quite disappointed with your closing words. I can understand why you have all your final word and shortened and limited your comments to the final debate. I can figure it out, it's perfectly human that even after several hours of debate here and it's too late to get you kicked out of the act, but not all the debate you've been listening to here today has been at the level you've been talking about. I think you've had a chance to hear the comments of people who have been dealing with this topic for a really long time, who are both you and your colleagues at this point in your career, so in the end line here are people who would very much like to hear some kind of feedback on their discussions from you. I'm really sorry that you used the closing word to refer to the negative part because Mr. Prime Minister, I mean the good part of the Valentine this isn't the last time that we talk about this, there will be more opportunities, but don't forget the next time that at the end of the day you choose your level of your partners, you choose what you're going to refer to, you've had half an hour to talk, you could have continued. I say it's human, I can understand you, but also here are people who would like to hear some garden feedback at constructive discussions that we've heard today from several clubs and from several colleagues and colleagues. Here's so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56646	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. Answer, President Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56647	Dear fellow Glavasevic, I referred to a part of the debate, and I made it quite clear. You don't have to find yourself neither you nor a number of MPs who have had very high-quality content shows, but at some point we have to say what's going on here. Maybe it's you who listens to it every day for a year and you think it's okay, that it's normal, sweet and fun. It's not. I'm talking about a system problem, and that's why I said it, and I'm firmly behind it, and I know that 95% of you agree with that. That's for sure. I see you approve of what I said. Therefore, the content debate we had in most of this debate was very useful to me, and I can see even more that the topic of digital society so far may have gained the greatest interest of MPs of all in the last year, but I have stayed out of respect for each of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament every minute. And tell me that I don't respect the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Maras that's not true, I have great respect for it. But I will also say as a politician who has responsibility for the functioning and government, and I want the Croatian Parliament to function at the level needed by Croatia of the 21st century to make my position clear as I can listen for hours to what those elected by Croatian voters say. And they're interested in how sensitive it is to you to something that's perfectly normal what I said, and in terms of what we should be sensitive about what we heard today during the debate or... Think about it, it's a two-way process.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56648	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56649	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister. This is the Croatian Parliament with its Rules of Procedure, the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian Parliament, you can adapt it you have a majority towards you, but the people have given opportunity. You can think of us as such and as such, you can call on a Chetish neighborhood where I live, where I'll die, if God doesn't want me to move anywhere, I respect your Hvar, but of course I'll ask you what's wrong with the economic belt, that's a legitimate question. Which is why the whole of Slavonia was evicted, which is why we have less milk production 10 times than when we entered the EU, did you ask that up when you were on a date with your friends, as you are calling on Mr Juncker. It's my legitimate right, as you say, to welcome the mayor, so I will answer you differently. Of course, I'm one of the ordinary people who's from the Cetina region, the people have given me support and it's mine to represent their interests in my own way. They rated me, they're gonna be somebody else next time, and I didn't get into this chair, and I'm not a diplomat careerist, I'm not. I've come with my activation in recent years... to find out how I knew and spoke and it's my right, but we won't make a pattern. You can say that at your party's meeting, you can tell your party, you will speak, replicate, and I will act as I think it should be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, of course, the Chairman only if we call this Parliament or the Rules of Procedure Plenkovic. But this is the Croatian Parliament, the people elected us, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure we have the right to express our views and ask why 2/3 of Croatia is empty while you boast about the successes of Croatia. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] 2/3 of Croatia That's the problem. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Please ask upstairs. I'm begging you. If you're going to give us a lecture and you're not going to tell me what I'm saying and think. You can do that in your own party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56650	Comrade Bulj, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you are long overdue for the replica. I ask you to abide by the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure in the future. Prime Minister Plenkovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56651	I thought Miro and I understood each other, but I see you're a little light-headed. A man and a half isn't sensitive. He can laugh at his own expense, he can make jokes at his own expense. It's fun for me to say what you're saying, like you should be fun when I tell you that you almost became mayor and that's okay. It even gives flier, gives sympathy to that new debate. For me you're a man and a half, enjoy, spend your style. People obviously like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56652	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56653	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister. In your closing statement, instead of looking a little more specifically at what Croatia might offer to move a little faster ahead, not to stand in place, and in some segments it also comes back, you've given us some insight into what our job is and estimated that you haven't attended such a low level of debate in one Parliament for a long time. I am now asking you if you have spoken to your minister, because since 2007 when I have been sitting in Parliament, I have not attended the lower drop of a minister whom I wanted to help and told him that the state owes him 4.2 billion kuna every year, that it only pays him 2.5 and he actually took the opportunity to in an unprecedented attack of insults by a parliamentary representative. So did you tell him such a lesson as you did to us here, if you didn't do it and tell him that it was his duty to attend a session of the Croatian Parliament committee that discussed the issue of 44,000 nurses and asked for a way to ensure that they had better working conditions, that they do not leave Croatia. And Mr. Minister was not worthy to come or to send a replacement, nor to apologize, and he even banned members of the HDZ Health Committee from attending the session. So what kind of behavior is it, Mr. Prime Minister, who probably made the worst speech in this House at the current afternoon in the history of the Croatian Parliament? Will you warn him? Or will you ask the secretary to write him that familiar letter and relieve him of his duties?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56654	I thank Mr. Jovanovic for the replica. Answer? Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56655	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. You have initiated such content in the Croatian Parliament and it is nice that you sit here for four, five hours trying to introduce us to all that is happening in European institutions. The fact is, what Glavasevic said was that there were very constructive, quality debates here for people who know exactly what they're talking about. However, you did not, at the same time, feel the same way about them, but actually it was you who gave the importance of the last debates, and at the same time you called these same debates that they were bottoms, that they were below each level, that MPs who spoke about some topics knew nothing about them, that they were abused by the Parliament, etc. etc. that they don't stick to the subject. First of all, it is known which is the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and who is chairing the Croatian Assembly. I did not see that the chairman of the Croatian Parliament and at one point warned to go to one representative not to stick to the topic. It is the work of the chairman of the Croatian Parliament, so your thesis that MPs did not stick to the subject simply does not stand. You're not saying that your chairmans can't tell what the subject is, and that's not the topic of the debate. Second. To call on the majority not to participate in the debate because they are nebulous I think it is indeed the degradation of the Croatian Parliament. Here come all kinds of laws in front of the Croatian Parliament, so we refrain, so we choose the words. Some MPs have a little more freestyle, but that's the prime minister. It's just what you have to deal with. It's not you who should judge who, how and when they speak, and don't, I see you have a voice problem. Don't really lose a bad voice on such unnecessary things. You don't need that. I don't think that's your level.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56656	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voice of this replica. Answer? He's guarding the messengers of the Prime Minister. We're moving on to our next line, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56657	Thank you. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I am not dissatisfied with your last step, but I would be much happier if you use the same tone to those who want to prohibit women's right to choose, to be determined to use the same tone to those who want to ban MPs from speaking in their native language in the Croatian Parliament, which we all understand. To be much more determined towards those who encourage the Fascision of Croatian society towards those who continue to lead Croatia where you shouldn't, and then you will have a completely moral and democratic right to object to MPs who may not hold a level of debate in the Croatian Parliament which is also a little below my level but well. Then you'd be absolutely right. Or to be, that when you've already quoted the series in which Boris Dvornik is, you can't take these things I've been telling you about human rights, about Fascising, about minority rights, you can act like Boris Dvornik in "The Great Mist" and say "I'm not going to politics in my butig," but I'm going to quote you from 10 minutes ago, at one point you have to say what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56658	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bauku, for the replica. And the answer of the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56659	Since Mr. Bauk is my Braccanin, we could quote these quotes for a very long time with coffee to mention and evaluate the anthological scenes of Croatian cinematography that was then in my court at perhaps the best level since 70th, this was 74th in terms of peace, and this was 80th. But it doesn't matter. I think you're on the trail of fellow Miletic today, re-imputing something that doesn't stand, and I think in answer to his question on the current clock, I was very firm and resolute. As far as abortion is concerned, the position of the Croatian Democratic Community is very clear, therefore, there has never been a talk of a general ban, but it was about the legal framework being such if it is possible to avoid it to be best for both mother and society in general. As for minority rights, minority representatives are part of the coalition. They are part of the parliamentary majority we meet regularly, act in office in the Croatian government, discuss important topics, consult, adopt an operational programme for national minorities working on it. We made sure that the budget also had the appropriate means to implement these projects and at all three points, I think colleague Bauk, that the Government, myself personally, the Croatian Democratic Community is very clearly taking views and is very clearly leading politics. Maybe it's not how you would do it or how your colleague Maras would like him to tell me what I'm going to say on the European Council. So he wants to give me instructions and guidance. It's a little unusual that the opposition gives instructions to the ruling majority, it really isn't anywhere yet. Here to discuss together what is important and then to work in the interest of Croatia, and the respect for the Croatian Parliament is up to the sky.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56660	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. This concludes the debate on this report. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56661	We now move to the Report on the meeting of the European Council held on 19 and 20 October 2017 in Brussels. The applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of HNS Representatives, Liberal Democrats, the Club of HDS Representatives, the HSLS and the HDSSB, the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities, the Party of Labour and Solidarity, the Party of Intergenerational Solidarity of Croatia, the Reformist and Independent Representatives and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the European Council held on 19 and 20 October 2017 in Brussels is hereby adopted." Please, let's vote. I find that with 114 votes for and 1 abstention and 15 against the Prime Minister's report on the European Council meeting of 19 and 20 October 2017 in Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56662	We're moving on to the next point. Suggestion to launch... I'm setting a break for 10 minutes until 21.10. It's 8:00.59.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56663	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:10 A.M.]] It is next: - Proposal to launch the trust issue Nadi Murganić, Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy – Proposers: 33 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The proposed representatives shall be 33 MPs and representatives based on Article 125(1). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate will be held in accordance with Article 125 of paragraphs 7 and 8. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government was very clear about this proposal. I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. On behalf of the promoter, Honorable representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56664	Thank you very much. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the late evening, and as I said when I asked the question to the distinguished prime minister, so I said, "If you know each other in the morning, it's going to be a very quiet day like that," but I can see that they showed themselves on a few occasions, and we showed emotion and we showed passion and what's good. Each and every one of us when he talks, he speaks the way he normally uses it with the rhetoric he normally uses. I'm not the one who in any way will use any harsh and difficult words. However, we decided to launch on behalf of the first vote was the vote and HSU then joined us, of course, a number of other opposition MPs. We have decided to launch confidence in Minister Nadi Murganic, Minister of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy because of a draft proposal for a new Family Law that let me use a more difficult one, however, was scandalous. He's caused a lot of public trouble. But of course there's another thing going on here. If the Croatian public and all of us have been occupied since April of the month by Agrokor, then beneath that large cloak of Agrokor and, or beneath the radar, some other things are passing through and that everyone is actually dealing with the most famous Croatian blogger, so I think today was the topic where he lives or doesn't live and what he said or didn't say. But we feel that it is necessary to discuss in this House both in terms of democracy and I want this debate to be such about the confidence of a minister from a resolution that is extremely important and that we have concluded that there are also a series of problems that we absolutely need to say, point out and get appropriate answers. You know, when it comes to, say, the finance minister, then we all know what it's all about because he's making his decisions, his set of laws and the problems that are actually in some way getting into our wallets, and we all understand the increase in VAT. Of course you'd understand a reduction there isn't. However, when it comes to such a single ministry headed by Minister Murganic, it is then a ministry that enters our four walls in a certain way, not to mention our bedroom. That doesn't matter when it comes to even partially justified when it comes to preventing domestic violence or when it comes to child protection. But what was defined by the Family Law, we absolutely concluded that this intervention in this law was absolutely not appropriate. There is also a convention that always causes recommendations in this Assembly, which is the Istanbul Convention that has not yet been ratified. And there's a portal called the Factographer who announced that October 31st was on the web. The parties, or the Government, were published the results in a public debate which was held from July 3rd to August 3rd in which, on the proposal of the Law which ratified the Istanbul Convention, there were 370 objections and these comments were indeed given by a very, very correct answer, where there was also a very serious definition of the problem that arose. However, after an hour and a half, it was also withdrawn to ask why it was withdrawn and today it is on the current hour when he told me that it was withdrawn because it was necessary for some work to be done. The question is, what kind of work is this? Is it something that the public is talking about, and I wouldn't go into it, but I have a chance to say this time, is it one conservative wing that I don't say one right wing of HDZ or are it associations on behalf of the family or Vigilara who said it's inadmissible and that it can't be? And this information you believe is under the auspices of Agrokor indeed was and passed under the radar. Likewise, let us remember a little fact or something that we had in this congregation. In this House, we had a real debate when it came to the Ombudsman for the right of children, we passed a law that was the same debate in an inappropriate period in which we did not want to discuss it and we did not want to understand at all what the Ombudsman's report meant for children or any lawyer. Report says what's going on in the vault. The report doesn't have to agree, but we need to learn from that report and make sure that next year's report shows that there's something else in the vault. We were not satisfied with the fact that the Ombudsman’s report on children’s rights decided to go into the amendments to the law and decided to lay down the law in a way that when the report in the Assembly was not accepted that it was the reason for the Ombudsman, or the Ombudsman to leave his post. And now we have an unusual situation, and I have to admit I don't understand until the end of whether or not we have a child rights attorney because, in accordance with the new law, we've made an invitation for candidates for that place. I must admit that I'm really surprised that there were only five requests for reasons that indeed after three months someone can ask to be obtained, to restart the report in the Assembly not to pass and that someone says thank you very much you haven't satisfied us. Equally, we can all agree who we were there that the candidates who came, that it was very, very difficult for those who chose to choose quality candidates. In the end, two candidates were elected. I expected him to be in the Assembly this week for a parliamentary debate, but there is nothing of it that actually says that even the rulings are not very happy with the candidates who were. What we really want with all of this together, what we're saying, and what was in our documentation, or in our initiative. We just want the state to actually react in time. We want to see what were the reasons why the family law was even released in the process, so that we would really have all the opportunity to see how the prime minister addressed the minister and said that the situation was not good and that the law should be withdrawn as it was done. But there are a number of questions, and we often ask that I come back, and I can't take that story with Agrokora, we have a lot of questions and we ask who wrote Lex Agrokor? I'm using this place to ask the minister, which is who writes the laws at the Ministry, which is headed by the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy? I'm afraid we won't find out either, but I'm just as afraid they're writing down certain associations. Indeed, let us return to the proposal and say a few words about it. I know it's already too late, by the way, when you see this, we're going to enter November 9, but we really should all have a chance to say what we want to say and the way we want to say it. So, when you get to one of the resistors, you do a review of the resources you've come to and you find out, say, Family Law and then you do an analysis and you figure out what the elements are that you've found and why this law needs to be changed. From what we have had the opportunity to see this law in the public debate, we have not had the opportunity to see why it is changing, or why the new law is being written. But we absolutely had the opportunity to read that the law itself is very dogmatic, that it prescribes values that are not generally accepted values of all segments of society, that it is unmade, that it is contradictory, that in a certain way it violates human rights. The same way I have to admit, indeed, the public reacted greatly to the concept of family. It's personal to me that something that really impressed me was a young man who said we lost a child, my wife and I, does that mean we're not family anymore? This really takes some time to see what it is in the European Union and how the directives say it and how other countries really define it, so if we do not take some step forward at least to stay where we have been so far. In this draft, the law was a problematic area of divorce, even a worker at the Social Care Centres pointed to the fact that this is incomparably better a solution that is in the current law than a new solution in the bill. Furthermore, it was also the right to adopt children where it is related to extramarital communities, where it is said that, exceptionally if there are particularly justified reasons on the part of the child, it is possible. The way in which the relationship between parents and children, namely how they will decide on child rearing, was one special chapter and you really know none of us have any of us, whether it is in the executive power, whether it is in the legislative, whether it is at local level or at the state level, the magic wand, and that one magic wand has some determined solution and that it solves it at the same time. But if you don't have it then it's better until you have some kind of decent solution and you don't have a step forward to what's existing and what's right don't change. Also, there is little to be seen when we decided on the subject at all and to initiate the recall then, of course, that we looked at what the Government programme said a little more than a year ago in this same Assembly, and then, in relation to the Family Law, no changes were announced or indicated, but there were some other things that were related to demographics, from inciting demographics, with the possibility that really young people on these trains or buses or planes that we mention were not leaving Croatia but are leaving there. But we didn't actually have a chance to see it, but we really had a chance to see this bill. There this summer was passed, indeed on several occasions more cases of sexual abuse of children aged 10 to 14 years and very low sentences received by perpetrators of these crimes, not to say that in certain situations they were also given work for the common good. It was to be expected that the government had said something about it, i.e. it was expected that the ministry headed by Minister Murganic had something to say about it, but I'm afraid we didn't have a chance to hear anything about it, and it would be really good if that wasn't the case. When you get a little bit into the portfolio of demographics, families, young and social policies, and you compare it with the ways in which they were used or managed to use EU funds, then you see that there are very small activities, and it was really possible to strengthen them and they could certainly be bigger. So 30m euros were intended for construction work, vehicle and equipment procurement, as well as for improving the quality of professional work of homes for children and young people and the Centre for Social Care. Equally, an additional 56 million was available for the transformation of the system or institution for people with disabilities, and something we had the opportunity to actually hear and see on several occasions was 74 million European money that the ministry of resistance could use for the most needed to provide food and material assistance for individual households. To know when it comes to Agrokor, which we really often mention, when it comes to the Ministry of Finance that we understand well, then of course the debates, no matter how late they are, cause a certain real interest. When it comes to demographics, it causes interest in how difficult it is to talk about how difficult it is and how young people are leaving, but we did not notice that something was done in this regard. When it came to family, then we had the opportunity to see the real proposal of the Family Law, which was happily withdrawn. However, there is a concern about what a new proposal will be, for this Family Law has indeed entered our four walls with the desire to really impose on us how to live here and what to do. And when it comes to young people and social policy, when it comes to young people, there were really alarming situations this summer. But in this case, I would like to point out once again that the defence attorneys have not been named for 8 years, they are not necessarily their reports should be looked at in terms of incentives, not in the sense that the reports are criteria whether we like them or not. But this one, we run and we started for reasons to point out the importance of social policy, that the importance of social policy in Croatia and the desire to really get answers in front of this House to those questions that we asked with a desire for Croatia and that we are all moving forward together, not a step back. I was kind of looking out for you for the Prime Minister who had the final word, so at one point one of his colleagues replicated and your prime minister said. I am, I live in this country, this is my country. And at a time when someone becomes Prime Minister as well as you, Mr. Plenkovic, or when someone becomes a minister, and so are you, Mrs. Murganic, and you are my prime minister, you are also my minister. I don't share in yours and ours, but at the time when you became one, you were both my Prime Minister and my minister. And our desire is to point out the problem that is in the corridor that you are headed by the desire to make that resort better, but not with the desire to go back, not with the desire to have some things and some human rights reached, the rights of the children we have achieved will be re-examined and put back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56665	Yeah, it's over. Okay, we don't have a lot of replicas just 19. 19 replicas. So we're starting with the first. It's a distinguished colleague of Zekanovic's, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56666	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, you spoke 15 minutes and we didn't actually get any information which is why you are asking for Minister Murganić's recall. You mentioned Agrokor, you mentioned the Istanbul Convention, you mentioned the Ombudsman for the children, but we didn't get any concrete information, which is questionable to you. You were mostly talking about family law in a way, about his proposal that is no longer in the process in a way that you mentioned will not be mentioned by anyone in our bedroom, he's scandalous, and the values don't work, people's rights are violated, and we haven't heard anything in particular. I'll be here at the beginning because later on, if I have the strength to report another line, I'll still read what was controversial for the debate, so that few people will hear what was disputed after all. He says it's defined by this law to define a family. Family members are mother, father, and their children. Mrs. Dark, open any article of this law that has 300 and several articles. Each article mentions children. This law was made for children, this law was designed to protect children. Marriage as an institution is protected throughout a number of other laws, and this law means primarily protecting children, or family as a place, the starting point of children. You mentioned some associations here and you mentioned that whoever wrote these laws at all. Among other things, the proposal for this law was written by 7 of the 10 university professors of Family Law, 7 of the 10 university professors from the Republic of Croatia's Family Law. Well, if that's not professional enough, I don't know what it is. Perhaps some association of yours would be more professional.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56667	Thank you. Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56668	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, I'm a nerd in your life. So I can have different characteristics. But it is something I admit and read very closely. But obviously you and I read in different ways. So the question is, you've asked a few questions here. I answer to your replica would be very simple. If that law is so well written, why is it withdrawn? Why didn't he go through the procedure? He could have been, come to the Parliament, we could've been in the first reading. We should have had this discussion at first reading, so we could differ there. And why didn't we withdraw the procedure that we started with Minister Murganic's trust? Well, because we're afraid, because you still have that law in your hands, we're still waving. And we just want to point out that we want to have the law in Croatia is about family, it's about family law, a law that will actually fit all citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56669	Replica number two. Dear fellow Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56670	Thank you. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, the debate on the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy is not a debate on any ministry or any other ordinary ministry that we view as some kind of cold bureaucratic political body. The Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy is a ministry that takes care of public values, which takes care of public morality and the biology of a nation and especially of a small people who are missing. When it comes to these policies that this Ministry is implementing that didn't start, I have to admit it right away, but it continued to implement such policies, it's something that's called demonic ethos in literature. As ugly as that sounds when we don't worry about public morality, public values and the country's biological existence, we don't worry about values, we just implement demonic policies. These demonic policies contained in this paradigm of demonic ethos, they manifest themselves with different nooses that have been thrown right above all these categories. Because how else do you understand it than being a painful noose over, say, children who don't deserve an adequate response to the violence they're exposed to, especially sexual violence? What do you call rather than a painful nosy sadism of an institution that is unable to respond adequately to the needs of children who have lost proper parental care, but we organize a cool center and thus play some false humanity? It is your responsibility not that you started with the policies of destroying public values, but because you continued and made an effort to keep those nooses still.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56671	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56672	Thank you very much. In fact, on the trail of what I said in the opening statement about the importance of the ministry, about you knowing that we also share the ministries in some state and others. But really important to this ministry, the importance of all the things that happen with young people and children. We love to talk about children’s rights, but very often we also try to solve other things through children. I have to admit that I was expecting it and I was very pleased when we founded a ministry that had demographics. However, I expected that the first laws we get would really be related to demographics, and I expected that when it comes to the Family Law to make a really good analysis of the existing that in the part where it is seen that it is correct and that it can be used further to use it, but in a part where it is not correct to change it equally there. Therefore, this ministry as soon as it received its demography in its name, indeed the first and the main topics should be demographics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56673	Third replica, dear colleague Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56674	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, in your debate you touched one very important thing. At one point you said that because of this story with Agrokora, all the other things that need to be said are problematic and you're absolutely right when you say that this is one of them. The menstruation of radicalism is something we need to talk about. Of course, in a situation where we have a crisis of this magnitude, of course, that many won't be the first question that happens in a ministry called the Ministry of Family, Demography and colleague Bauk has that... for home ready, but I don't know I can't remember right now. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Anyway, there's a lot of problems, and we need to talk about them. Here, in that sense, I'm giving you the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56675	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56676	Thank you very much, fellow Glavasevic. Indeed in situations where you and I are probably in a position to try to take this discussion really in the direction in which it should be in this Croatian Parliament, two weeks ago, a television called me to come and talk, I asked what the topics were and they gave me half the cards of different topics. I came there, and I didn't say a word about any of this. I've been talking about Agrokor the whole time. And indeed beneath that great umbrella of Agrokor, which I can't get away with every time, there are a number of topics to talk about. It is equally the most normal thing and it is nothing unusual if a sufficient number of MPs conclude that there are problems in a particular portfolio or that they think that there are problems in that portfolio to demand the confidence of the minister or minister and to discuss the resolution with the desire for the situation which is better in that portfolio and with the desire for the laws that we receive to be laws. I prefer it when I can come to the pay phone and praise the law. But you really can't do it every time, and it's good to point out things that aren't good and it's good to discuss. Equally so you can't all get... term. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to admit, at one point, I struggled terribly to have the regional development strategy given another term because I concluded that it was extremely important to get another term but it was simple for you, we saw everyone on schedule for this week. But it's a good thing we're not going to discuss one law tomorrow during a game like the President of the Parliament promised us before the game.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56677	There's still a little doubt. Fourth replica, dear colleague Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56678	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, you said the bill was scandalous. I wonder was there a scandalous proposal of the family law that was passed in 2014 by most of whom you were part, which was proposed by your colleague, Minister Opačić, for which a procedure of assessment of constitutionality was launched and a temporary measure was adopted for the sake of the legal certainty of the family law, because each of our fellow citizens were in conflict with the many provisions of the Conventions and the Constitution itself and the mutual provisions of the law itself? The law is suspended. I must say, it was a precedent that the law was suspended for the first time, not just by certain provisions. And then it wasn't scandalous for anyone. I didn't see you raise the question of whether the minister was responsible. This time, you raised the question of trust with Minister Murganic because the proposal was carried out by the section led by the head of the Family Law Department, Ms. Hrabar, with a number of other experts. The proposal put forward in a public debate, which is also used to make comments through public debate, proposals. You are because the minister made the proposal to which certain reactions were made to the public, listening to the public with an understanding of the public and hearing pulled out of the procedure for the completion. And that's why you're asking for her recall. The only thing that bothers me is the hypocrisy and duality of the criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56679	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56680	Dear colleagues, if you have listened carefully, then I have finished my debate with the following, there is no country ahead as long as your and our prime ministers exist, while your and our experts exist, while your and our ministers exist. The moment someone becomes prime minister, then that prime minister is yours and mine, no matter what we think. Likewise, Minister Murganic is the minister of both yours and mine. Therefore, as long as there is no gap ahead and we do not have a chance for this Croatia at all to move on. I was Prime Minister in the government of Prime Minister Milanovic, and I am proud to be a minister, and I am proud of what I had the opportunity to do in that government. Equally, the family law my colleague Opačić was working on is still in effect after some work has been done. And he wasn't anti-constitutional in his elements but he was anti-constitutional in the procedure and it was done. And I don't mind, and I think it's only right that when the new minister came in that he did an analysis, that he saw what was wrong with the law and went to work in that law. But there are no more of yours and ours. This country has one future, neither yours nor mine. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56681	Replica number five, esteemed colleague Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56682	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Dark Taritash, if I'm not mistaken, you mentioned in your statement that this proposal of family law advocates some values that have not been accepted at all. Now I do not know what the values are, so I have served your written proposal where you have a problematic provision in Article 104 that parents have first and foremost the right and freedom to decide independently on raising and educating children in accordance with their own beliefs, taking into account the rights and well-being of the child. Now, that's what you've been having trouble with. Now I will read you another regulation that says – parents or where there is such a case, legal guardians, are first of all responsible for raising and developing a child. You know what regulation it's about? So it's on the trail of what's written in the law. So it's about the Convention on the Rights of the Child brought by the United Nations General Assembly, and it was ratified by the former state and which was passed down by succession into Croatian law. Secondly, the second provision I would quote is from the Protocol with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. He says, in performing his responsibilities related to education and teaching, the state will respect the right of parents to ensure education and teaching according to their religious and philosophical beliefs. So it is also about the First Protocol at the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which the Republic of Croatia has also ratified. As we know in the Republic of Croatia, international contracts are above the law and these laws must be in line with international agreements, and in this sense, this provision of the Family Law that you are having a problem with is only the implementation of the provisions of international contracts that Croatia has adopted in national legislation. So, I don't see what's problematic about it, I don't see what the values are then the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on Human Rights are collapsing. So I'd like you to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56683	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56684	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sokol, there is no convention that speaks of parents raising a child according to their beliefs and that is what we are talking about. Today you had an article in the paper in which parents decided not to treat their child in accordance with their beliefs, and unfortunately that child is no longer with us, and now it is one topic where parents have decided in accordance with their beliefs not to treat the child, I am not sure that they would be absolutely willing to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56685	Replic number six. Dear fellow Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56686	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Dark Taritash, I have always appreciated your performances you have stuck to the measure of things and that area you know. You've been talking here for almost 18 minutes and maybe you've been talking about the law for a minute. What was so simple is for those replicas that you later said you found yourself in a vacuum. What are we discussing? About a law that never came, about a proposal or a bill that didn't even come to the Parliament. To stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure, this could not even happen on the agenda because we are talking about something that is not there, which is not in front of the Parliament. If we want to be consistent with this, this is simply harassment of the entire assembly and parliament because we're discussing something that isn't in the process at all. By such a form, you can then object or anyone else can make any law that does not agree to seek the impeachment of the Minister or Government because it does not agree. And then we'll say it's democracy. It is simply a destruction of the Parliament and the institutions of the Croatian Parliament. And it would be fairest and most consistent if you would withdraw this debate, or this proposal of yours, and not to discuss it, because what we will discuss when this law comes, is brought before the Croatian Parliament and is agreed after all the debates, the public debates and all the others. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56687	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56688	Dear Mr. Tudjman, I don't mind if you have your attitude and your opinion and you should have it. However, there is a position in this assembly and this country and there is opposition and everyone is doing their part of the job. And we're not here to think the same thing or think the same thing then we shouldn't even sit. Likewise, I have to admit that there are some parliamentary deputies who, no matter what, I will never give a replica, nor will I respond to their replica of my exposure. So I'm surprised you're in these late hours, if that's what you're thinking you're staying here and you're actually wasting your time because it's been decided by your replica. If I were you, I wouldn't really, I'd be home, I wouldn't waste my time. But let us have a real need and somehow we think it's an extremely important topic and we as an opposition have submitted a request and we want to talk about it and we want to finally get some answers. For now, the only thing we're talking about right now is us Parliamentarians. We still haven't got a chance to get the government out, and it's obvious that we're saying what we're thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56689	The next replica of a respected colleague, Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56690	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak Taritash, part of the MPs reacted quite sharply to your assessment of that bill of law as you called scandalous. I don't know why they're surprised when the prime minister said he was scandalous and ordered to withdraw from the procedure within 15 minutes. So that's the best proof of how scandalous he was. What, we had this little internal bookie here that's going to be your first replica. You know the one that scratches where it it itches. Of course, it was a colleague of Zekanovic, a representative of a marginal group who was actually a blind passenger on the list of the HDZ Assembly and who cooked up this whole story and which is the main reason why the Istanbul Convention is not being adopted. The hand is expensive and because of this hand obviously before this vote of confidence is passed, the Istanbul Convention will not be adopted, although it has nothing to do with all those who want to prevent domestic violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56691	Before we respond to the replica, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56692	The speaker subsequently turned on./...insulting colleagues, Article 238 was injured. It's a marginal group. And what group do you belong to, Mr. Jovanovic? What group are you in? Just make a declaration. I belong to a marginal, conservative group. Which group do you belong to? That's what I want to know. Just declare yourself. The Yugoslavs? Who? Now let's hear who you belong to. [[Break president: colleague Zekanovic!]] Tell me finally I'm Yugoslav and here's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56693	My colleague Zekanovic, therefore you have abused the violation of the Rules of Procedure and have entered the controversy with your colleague Jovanovic. I'm asking you not to. Now we also have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56694	This Regulation shall enter So today this assembly is a mockery that has not been seen for so long. Parliamentarians are offended on every possible basis, and now at national level. Please warn him with the strictest warning there is! Well, he can't insult on a national basis. Parliamentarians. [[Breaking president: colleague Jovanovic!]] So what's too much is too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56695	A colleague of Jovanovic, like this. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Please! Wait a minute! Wait a minute. [[/Invadica Jovanovic: What is Djakic? · Global Voices What?]] Come on, enough. [[/Invadica Jovanovic: What is it? What?]] All right, just a little bit. Comrade Jovanovic, please. [[Invadica Jovanovic: You can all be ashamed.]] So you used words that weren't appropriate. A colleague of Zekanovic is our fellow parliamentary representative. ... Yeah, that's a metaphor. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Let's not, let's not have, there's a culture here where I'm going to easily insult someone else, and when I get the same way, then I'm going to get up on my back and wonder if I'm offended. So you call him after his light. [[Invadica Jovanovic: Wait a little on what basis he calls me by nationality?]] My people, don't be offended, and don't be offended. Don't insult others, and I beg you. ... The debate is well completed. [[Invader Jovanovic, not understood.]] Let's move on. Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56696	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Assembly, esteemed...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56697	Excuse me, we have a reply to the replica. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56698	I understand, you're still younger than me. I don't even remember what I was supposed to say to my colleague Jovanovic anymore, but surely something good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56699	But we're breaking up before the game is safe!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56700	I'm gonna ask that one more time just in case. I'm one of those football players, so if that's how we share people. However, counterpart Jovanovic did speak in favour of the fact that when I said scandalously, the prime minister himself rated it scandalous because after a day and a half he concluded and said move it. But you know, in life, you can't like everyone, so what your colleague Jovanovic said when you want to like everyone and when you're titrating like that, you don't end up liking anyone. Well, I'm afraid this so-called parliamentary bill is going to end up most of the issue. Maybe nobody's gonna like it in the end?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56701	Let's move on. The eighth replica is now a colleague of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56702	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, so I, like my colleague Tudjman, am following your debates and I know that you are very well prepared for them and I am happy to listen to you. However, according to this proposal that you sent for the launch of the trust, Minister Nadi Murganic has seen that there are many surfaces, so I will warn you only of some, although I will discuss some in detail in my report on behalf of the Club. So, the scandalousness of the Family Law draft is that you don't know who was in the task force. You had it on the web. The sides of the ministry itself, not only for the draft bill, but also for the draft proposal for an assessment of legal effects as well as for the topics related to the draft proposal of the Family Law. So it's not right that you were a minister and you know how any law is passed. This working group was first established on 24.05.2016. So much for some incorrect allegations. But when you talk about some things and what you were actually saying in your presentation, I can't take the impression and by what some colleagues have told you that you are still being held by what the former Prime Minister said to us or them. This is what we or they are actually reaching out to you in this proposal for you to start trusting Mrs Nadi Murganic where you are actually talking about some new values that this government advocates, which are not what they were when you were and that this is not in line with the members of the European Union. I don't think that's correct and it's not good to talk like that. If you're saying that, then you should know that this ministry that you're saying won't enter our homes, that ministry is actually a total of 241 homes, it's looking out for about 30,000 protégés with 8,000 employees, 14 grand and 850 children with developmental difficulties and more than 85 thousand people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56703	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56704	I think that when I responded to my colleague Jovanovic then I said that not everyone can like me, nor can my discussions be liked every time, nor is it my idea to like you every time. I love it when someone tells me they're happy, but it doesn't really have to be every time. But I will refer to one fact. You mentioned one working group, so I would like to really introduce you to the fact that the working group appointed in 2016 is not a full working group that has been working on this bill, but here's how the fellow from the bench is Sufling, not at all, but the new working group was appointed on 23 February 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56705	Let's move on. Dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56706	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues what actually amazes me is the spirit of exclusion in this proposal of yours. So, you're looking for a Minister's shift because you want to get a guarantee that the proposal that will come to Parliament is in line with what you want to see in that law. So let's let the law come. If he needs any work done, he'll have to do it. They will come, and then we will discuss whether we should have children as a constituent part of the family or throw them out of such a concept of family, whether marriage and family are the same or not, whether the right of parents is above the right of politicians and states when it comes to education of children in accordance with the Protocol with the Convention on Human Rights, or as the left hand side wants politicians to actually have an advantage over parents we will discuss but in a spirit of tolerance, not immediately go on shift of ministers as a prevention because you want to ensure that that law is how you like it. And then only when there's a draft like that can we go further and we can discuss it. It's about something on the trail like here's a colleague named Bauk who's now talking to the Prime Minister, so he told him first that he wanted to silence the MPs, but then later he said to him, "But if you think like me, if you think about abortion as we do, if you become left-handed, then you have the right to shut up." Now, that's not a spirit of tolerance. It's a spirit of exclusion from a former time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56707	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56708	Thank you very much. My colleague Stier, I'm very fond of the next fact. The whole afternoon out there, about three or four hours ago, this side of the assembly was taking a little nap. It was neither heard nor seen I think that only colleague Klaric at one point gave some kind of replica and absolutely slept, so I am very glad that we have now achieved that here is 10 hours that actually here we are all having quite a heated debate and it is worth the debate and we need to debate. But there should be no exclusion on either side. And I don't regret it, I certainly don't want my family to have my family decided by the state and even less about my children's family.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56709	Here... Don't touch the lion while he's asleep. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. He's a friend of Sagar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56710	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Mrak-Taritash, therefore every government, including this government, has the right to implement policies, to propose laws that are in accordance with their system of values to the majority system of values that make up that government and I do not see any problem if this law was in accordance with their proposal, represent such a system of values that the Government wants to implement through its policies. You're also right when you say that certain media attention attracts certain events and so does Agrokor. And so today media attention has been drawn to the negotiating process of Minister Žalac, who has assigned, intent to allocate 10 million kunas to one of the acquaintances. But what has certainly happened is that this law has caused very great media attention. And now we're going back to that beginning of the story. The government may propose to comply with its system of values, but it must not happen that the public is so upset, that it is plowing the fundamental values of human values and the freedoms that the citizens of this country have. And you've noticed this well on the example of the attorney general's choice for the children. I'm the same board member as you. We had five candidates. And you know why only five? Because she's not independent, she's not independent anymore. And that's exactly what the majority of them took care of. Those aren't good messages. In order to preserve the fundamental values of this society, we must make sure that we leave democratic principles, that we leave the right for everyone in this country to feel free and that everyone can protect their rights at all times. And let me get this straight. I see the problem here exactly what the bill has withdrawn. How could he even come? How could he come to the public, who was doing it, and why would he do it like that? And in the end, the minister apologized, and here, I didn't hear it, but I heard from some colleagues that even the prime minister called it scandalous. That shouldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56711	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56712	Well, that's exactly what my colleague, Sagar. It just shouldn't have happened. It's equally interesting now that colleagues are saying why the word scandalous was used? Well, that's true, so the prime minister is the first person, he needs to know what's going on in certain corridors? I guess it's the same thing to do in some colleges, you know, to figure out how to deal with it. After the public reacted, and the public who responded is neither left nor right, they are Croatian citizens, after a day and a half of the bill has withdrawn. So something was wrong, something was wrong with either the minister and the prime minister, or that he was actually just reacting when the public was alarmed. So let's let our citizens live normally, so we don't get involved, and we don't impose on them how they have to live.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56713	Let's move on. The 12th replica, dear colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56714	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Dark, you mentioned something about the procedure how this law could have happened. First, it's amazing to simply avoid consulting the interested public. From what I understand about this law, it wasn't the same thing that happened, if I understood correctly. The prime minister said a public debate would be held after the cabinet meeting. I'm just, uh, we're gonna have a chance to shed some light on all the circumstances tonight. Secondly, the prime minister has removed the law from the government's session. But, what, look, please, Madam Minister, you'll have your chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56715	Comrade Pernar, what are you doing here, please? Please don't throw away. Comrade Voter, please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56716	As far as I know the law to come as a proposal for a cabinet meeting, certain instances must pass. After the ministry on expert working groups through co-ordination through a narrow cabinet at the very meeting of the government. It's just that if these procedures have changed in the meantime I... as they say, I take back what I said and I apologize. It is simply amazing to me that such an important law comes before the prime minister at a cabinet meeting as if no one had seen him before and that he had not been discussed and that he was not co-ordinated. Something about these procedures may not have been right for me, perhaps I didn't get it right in the whole period between the prime minister and the minister, which was actually happening, where he was stopped, but the way he stopped here gives me really trust just like some colleagues, that there was something wrong with the coordination, the way and the procedure as they are being passed, that is, the laws that are being referred to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56717	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56718	My colleague, the situation was next, the law was sent to the public consultation procedure and after a day was withdrawn because the public actually pointed out the problems in that law. Now there are two things. One thing or the minister didn't read the law, and she wasn't aware of what was in the law, so it went into the procedure, and she was surprised or she read it, and she couldn't justify what was in the law, so then she gave up the law and said we're pulling back and we're going to cover up the whole thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56719	The thirteenth replica. Dear colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56720	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, I will make my contribution to the fact that you have touched a set of family-related legislation, so you mentioned the Istanbul Convention and mentioned the sexual abuse of children and certain non-actions concerning the relevant ministry. First, from this pay phone, we had a meeting with two civil associations dealing with this problem last week, and you know very well that this issue and the set concerning the amendment of the Penal Code in the procedure will be in the process very quickly because we have this draft amendment of the law and we are actively working with civil associations. Secondly, the majority of the law regarding domestic violence already has incorporated provisions of the Istanbul Convention within it, and that law has passed two readings and we adopted it in this House. And objectively speaking, no government has ever made such a leap in that set of problems. And I can't list the provisions of the Istanbul Convention individually now, I don't have time, because there are a few dozen articles. It is important to say that this law, among other things, has solved those two things that no government has solved so far. And this is urgent safeguards and preventing further trauma of the victim in the process itself because it has proved precisely from all the cases so far and the lawsuits, claims by the Republic of Croatia before the Court of Human Rights that the institutions of Croatia did not take all they could to protect against domestic violence, particularly women and minors. We also had amendments to the Law on Gender Equality and the harmonisation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56721	I thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic, for the replica. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56722	Thank you very much. My colleagues, it's clear to me that you have a need to defend and it's logical to defend. However, you and I both had the opportunity to talk and talk about the facts that were this summer during the summer period when it was indeed a media show and we had the opportunity to hear about child abuse between 10 and 14 years of age. Equally so we had the opportunity to see that one of them was his punishment was actually work for the common good. And when interviewing candidates was a better word of conversation with candidates for a new lawyer, i.e. the Ombudsman for children and you and I have on several occasions asked about their views. And it's really an extremely important topic, and it's good to discuss it again in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56723	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash, for your reply. Next replica, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, you spoke in your presentation about insufficient activities related to the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds and the delay in calling certain tenders. I'll only tell you one example. Within one operational programme until the start of the term of office, Minister Murganic has not issued a single call for the delivery of project proposals. The first call for the development of personal assistance services for disabled persons was published on 22 November 2016. You will remember last year, at the beginning of the term of office of Minister Murganic, when it came out here in this House of Commons, I would say a great deal of concern about personal assistants for disabled persons when your colleagues even asked for a break and said that persons with disabilities were left without personal assistance, etc., the first working day of Minister Murganic. That Minister Murganic bridged the problem, and it is precisely this call that has been announced and an increased number of personal assistance users. So I'm not gonna talk, it's not a lot of time to tell you how many calls are scheduled today. Before that, none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56725	I thank my colleague Lukacic. My colleague Taritash's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56726	Thank you very much. My colleague, really in this documentation we've been preparing, we've been talking about a series of things and a series of facts that we don't seem to have done properly in this ministry. Well, when it comes to that very invitation you're talking about and it's about November 23, 2016, obviously someone else prepared the paperwork, because the minister took office on October 16, 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56727	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash, for your reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, colleagues Mrak-Taritash, in your explanation of the reasons and reasons for the initiation of the procedure for the resolution of Minister Murganic, you did not state any concrete reason or explain what it was. But you cited a scandalous bill that had not yet entered the parliamentary procedure, forgetting that the 2014 Law on which the Constitutional Court gave its assessment and suspended its application, was that not scandalous? So, application, the Constitutional Court has suspended the application of this law. It was corrected in 2015 and then used even though the Constitutional Court continued to make certain comments. All these facts have been ignored and I believe that no real argument that you have made here at the pay phone in these late hours when we are discussing a matter that should be resolved or trusted by the minister is actually not actually spoken of by you today, especially in a scandalous manner. The task force concluded a series of irregularities that were in previous laws, rated them with all kinds of names not to read now what was described and you ignored it all. There really isn't a single particular element in your submission for today's debate. This is pure demagogue politics that leads nothing but a waste of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56729	Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56730	My colleague Djakic, I have to admit, I didn't expect you to say that you agree, that there are arguments, that it's very good for you. I don't have a problem either, and if you think we're wasting your time or our time, you can sort it out somewhere else. And when it comes to the former law or law still in force, the Constitutional Court spoke of procedure. He wasn't talking about content. He talked about the way that it is and that law as far as I know is still in force. But you know as well as I do we're a little bit of listening to who's talking, so we have a little chance of looking, so it's not surprising for me, you should have a lot of, a lot of serious arguments that would be acceptable for you to have someone removed or not to be a minister anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56731	Thank you. Dear colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56732	Mr Vice-President, because of repeated repetition and incorrect interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision of 2014 allow incorrect interpretations of the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014 as well. Let me just say, instead of asking for a break, that the Constitutional Court has neither abolished nor annuled a single article of the Family Law, it has not stated which article of the law is incompatible with the Constitution and the only scandalous thing in that Decision is the Constitutional Court's decision to do so. Here we are not looking for a break, enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56733	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56734	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Mrs. Taritash. I answered for the reason why normal and surprise is actually why this side is so numerous and why is it coming? Well, that is so normal that you, as a proponent, i.e. the initiator, probably recalls our Minister Murganić, my disagreement with such an initiative and with such characteristics as you stated. And they're not really very convincing. So, the law itself, as my previous colleague Tudjman said, didn't even actually come to the table. But independently of that, this ministry has made very many and very good proposals for laws and strategies. And what should be mentioned specifically is what is the basis of this ministry is demographics, so no one remembered that during this period the aid for unemployed births was increased by 1,663 kuna, and it was only 665 kuna. That for employed parents during the other 6 months increased the amount to 3.991 kuna. So, for 1,311 kuna. So all this is saying is that he's taking care of demographics and that's why we need to support this minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56735	I thank my colleague, Peric. The answer of my colleague, Mr. Tarritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56736	Dear colleague Peric, we think of demographics differently. It's not demographics and demographics that care about what you're talking about. Demography is a whole set of measures and the whole system of measures that starts from that, from the possibility of going to kindergarten, to education, to the employment of young people, to a series of sets of measures that need to be made. I have to admit, and I repeat it once again, I was very pleased to see that we have a ministry called demographics, but we get in the name of demographics, and we don't have a whole project or strategy, we didn't actually do anything. And I expected that in the first debate to come from new laws, there would really be laws that would talk about the demographic recovery of Croatia, not that our mouths are full of it, and in reality we have nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56737	Thank you for your response to my colleague, Mr. Tarritash. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56738	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak Taritash, I've been here to listen to a lot of your debates, it's always broad, careful, professional, there's a little politics, but there's never been any politics. And I don't really know what drew you as the President of the Voice to enter that space and demagogy and pulsism, we've also heard destruction, because you don't need it. You don't need that if you look back in this assembly we have it above acceptable volume. And what did you find the reason for your interpretation? I really think this is for the first time in the history of Croatian politics to seek the replacement of the minister on family law working material in this case. I don't know what to say because the fact is that the law didn't go through with the government, it wasn't passed, it didn't go through the first reading, or the second, or the famous third reading. Nothing. But we've got an impelation on what? Nothing. How could we call such an interpretation? We could call it a dark interpretation. Indeed, a man wonders about your abilities and the knowledge you have. I will now return to the opposition, and you were the Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction, if I recall correctly. And now you tell us here what you would have done if we, as an opposition, had started the interpretation of, say, the law of indignation because we didn't like the draft some of your three or four articles of the law? Would you say yes on shift, would you defend yourself, or would you say that's funny? Now tell me, okay, tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56739	I thank my colleague, Boric. The answer of my colleague, Mr. Tarritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56740	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end at the beginning. So, as Minister, I came to this House with a series of laws, and if you remember correctly, and you remember there was no law where I didn't sit all day and a few days and defend them. There is one law on which there have been 13 requests before the Constitutional Court and all 13 requests have been rejected, which may have been in favour of somehow doing my job correctly. But to return to the first part of your replica that you started to wonder at me. There is no wonder, so you know very well how the Voice came into being, and why it came into being, and what was the cause of the Voice Party. So it's no wonder we're sitting here, because if there was something else then we'd be sitting somewhere else, and we clearly said what we didn't want and showed it with our own attitude. And show what consistency means in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56741	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56742	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representatives Mrak-Taritash, in your opening debate, in fact, defending your proposal to recall Minister Murganic said that you are launching this to warn a series of problems in this portfolio and that otherwise your political path, as other colleagues have said, has been marked by the constructiveness and work on the professional things you have shown during your ministerial term, and then I, as a matter of fact, have become somewhat less experienced than you in politics, what is the interpretation? Because you know that any interpretation of any whole government, any ministers individually aim to destabilise the government which we do not need in Croatia at this time. In addition, you said that you did not understand whether we have a lawyer in Croatia today or not, and what procedures were conducted about the change or resolution of the Ombudsman for children. I am saddened then by the fact that you did not react in public space and obviously did not understand its suggestion or even worse invitation for young people to leave Croatia at that time, which was also scandalous. In that sense, I would say here is that I really wanted to hear from you the withdrawal of this proposal, but also the constructive debate in this House what you want to see in this law and around it, in fact, to reach a consensus in some sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56743	I thank my colleague Sanji Putici. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56744	Thank you very much. Comrade Putica, I've heard on several occasions that I was expected to do this or that. I guess nobody wants to adopt me, so there wasn't much of a theme there. But let's go back to being the role of the opposition. Well, the role of the opposition is to question. The role of the opposition is to warn. The role of the opposition is to keep it actually all the time ruling to be as good as possible and then on the one hand you have the opposition not to work, that it's like this. The role of the opposition is to ask. The opposition's role is to ask the prime minister to answer those questions that we also ask the minister the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56745	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. And the last replica after this debate, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56746	Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, this is the last thing you said that you hoped no one would adopt you. No, your people really don't want to adopt. But just before you said that you were surprised by such a heated debate on this side, unlike the previous point. I'll tell you why there's such a heated debate on this side. Because this side greatly appreciated you. You and I have debated many times while you were a minister and now that you are in opposition and in many ways we have agreed. We have greatly appreciated your energy, your will to work, even your expertise. And now that I've been listening to you explain your request for a shift, I was wondering if it was the same lady, that Minister Anka Mrak-Taritash I appreciated. I'm convinced you're not sure what you're saying or thinking about it yourself. You have made no argument which is why the minister should be replaced. We're actually discussing something that's not there. You've made a scandalous announcement that the government and the minister and the public have estimated that there is still a need to improve and that there is still a need to discuss it so that the more high-quality proposal comes here. I'm really surprised, it comes down to your argument that the Minister's replacement request is similar to that of a recent shift from Minister Maric when the president of the opposition party who asked for it explained that Dad starved him over the head. Hey, are we serious? Are we serious? Are we seriously considering politics? Are we serious? And when we talk about something that's scandalous, and you mentioned it in your introduction, you mentioned the report and the lawyer for children's rights. The statement, and I haven't heard from anyone and there's talk again about the world surveillance issue, she said she advised children publicly in the media to learn foreign languages and run away with your head no matter what. That's what I was talking about here. Where do they run to? Is that a world-class question? Are these people on the payroll of the state budget? You didn't say anything about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56747	I thank my colleague, Klaric, for the replica. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56748	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that in fact all these replicas mainly refer to who my discussion likes or doesn't like and in which part it likes, in which part it doesn't like, in which part someone is satisfied, in which part someone isn't satisfied. So, we have launched a motion for Minister Murganic's recall. In that request, you mean without arguments, we mean with arguments. In that request, we made it clear which six elements are for which we are looking for a debate and are seeking the recall of Minister Murganic. You can be satisfied or not. But this isn't a debate about whether my exposure, my way in the Assembly likes it or not, but it's a debate on this subject that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56749	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash, for this answer. I call on the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, to explain the indication of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56750	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, allow me a few introductory words regarding the motion to launch the issue of mistrust, Minister Murganic. So, Nada Murganić is primarily a quality minister, a quality person I've known for many years and who enjoys my great trust both in professional and human terms and I stand behind her entirely. As for this initiative, which just over 30 opposition deputies have launched, I have to make it very clear, and here are some MPs and MPs that I am personally taking responsibility for this failure. In fact, it was one really early, early stage of technical preparation of the draft proposal that goes into electronic counselling, so we are far from the coordination process. It wasn't a document at all in coordination, most of you were in executive power, and he knows what I'm talking about. In principle, the government works by having a programme of activities, you have a programme relating to legal texts, to strategic priorities, to the laws that we adopt in accordance with the adoption of the acquis, the national reform programme. This is an important law, a politically sensitive law, which was also done in the previous government, was also done in this government, but was done in the phase of a working group of experts. So the text that we have based on the procedure that we have come to the Internet portal of electronic consultation as procedure is currently envisaged within the government has not reached any other portfolio or Office of the Prime Minister. And given that failure we have changed the procedure, we now have another system where the key aspects of all the laws come not to repeated two times the procedure of coordination but to signal to the Government, the President's Office of Law, the Secretariat which is important and what is relevant in each legal text that goes into electronic consulting. So we're doing a light, reasonable, human, natural filter so that situations don't happen that cause a lot of public attention, and in their essence they're benign, so we're talking about a draft, a draft. And that's why it seems to me that the esteemed advocate of Mrak-Taritash that you can, of course, initiate this procedure, express dissatisfaction, but it seems to me that the principle of proportionality of what you didn't like about the instrument you wanted to use has not been applied. It's just so friendly saying it seems to me it's a little bit more than it should be. Here's a colleague of the Voice far away from the cabinet session, far from any co-ordination, and that's why I want to say that the new procedure for such situations will no longer be. The working group is working on the text, ministry experts are working on the text, he is mature for re-advising the public consultation, he will go to the procedure, he will come to the Government for coordination in the Croatian Parliament and there will be a series of occasions for the text to be discussed and discussed and amended and finally adopt a text that will not be contradictory or sufficiently elaborated, unspeakable or unspeakable, as was the law on which the Constitutional Court and which has led to a political decision to make a new whole law. So I'm not going into the metrics, and especially not on these other elements that you've been talking about, and many of them are about, for example, commenting on the inadequacy of judgments. We can't comment on the inadmissible verdicts, we have instruments that are part of the ministry's social policy. The competent authorities who do their job and who will continue to do so, and we will not engage in what would be outside the scope of the concept of certain processes as we see them according to some of our ovaries. I would also like to say that Minister Murganic is committed to perhaps the most important topic in political terms for Croatian society, for the Croatian future, on the issue of demographic revitalisation. It is a special portfolio that was added to its activities in the term of office of the Government, along with the Secretary of State, along with other colleagues. The measures that we have brought so far have been the effects of the tax reform, whether parental compensation, or a whole series of measures that we will need to help in the coming year, and Minister Murganic will be the leader in the process, addressing the consequences and departure and ageing of the population and of negative natural growth. So to recapitulate and ask Minister Murganic to say a few words herself because it is a matter of pure technology and procedures at the government level, the text was withdrawn as soon as we saw what it was about. Nothing dramatic, the new text will go into procedure, Parliament will discuss it, I believe that we will achieve a high degree of consent, and I would like Minister Murganić and with the support of the parliamentary majority, but also with your understanding because I think you see what she is doing in her activities has support in her further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56751	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Ms. Minister Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56752	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. You know for a fact that if you followed some of my statements, I always knew that I was very conscious of taking responsibility for this ministry and that I wasn't one of those who would go back into the past with the goal of saying what I found in the ministry. Namely, as in any job and any ministry, what was good and what had to be fixed was also by the assessment of the future minister or by the fact of the fact. However, I have to look back at some points in this proposal for a reason because here I am quite called for by a lot of things that are unfounded and for a lot of things that apply to the past. The Family Law of 2014 and 2015 were also discussed, regardless of how they formally formulated it, however, was the fact that the Constitutional Court intervened on one and another law and that there were certainly enquiries, numerous enquiries, numerous citizens who were also found or injured or in some way felt suspended. And that's why it went into the making of a new family law, not a new worldview. And you all know it together. What is really out of these discussions and I want to stress that it is strange that the law that went to e-consultation took a month, and I think that we should be as a society ready for a democratic debate, in this way you as an official also know that no official will be able to give such a perfect law in the first draft that will not be required to be observed in all those stages as the law is passed. What I and I need to say, I said and in public was the only problem that was in the definition were the ones left out by our citizens who couldn't have children and wanted or those who lost them. My apology only went that way. All these other allegations in the law can and should be changed I repeat in a democratic debate. This is now not supposed to be a debate of the draft law, at this stage it is not discussed in this House. What's the problem is that both this law and some of my portfolio have what you said yourself, we are aware of it, a world-famous character and will always be a dispute over it because unfortunately we should have a quality, professional and democratic debate on many things but unfortunately we are very often in those situations when we are or they are. What you've been honoring me, it's about taking care of the children. You have no good information, I must honestly tell you and I will only tell you the fact that in this ministry when I came up with the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy for the Rights of Children, which was an ex-ante condition for withdrawing funds from EU funds and talking about EU funds, it was two years late. Secondly, mention also concerns about whether we will pass the Household Act in that plan of normative activities in 2018. We will. We have passed in this period of 5 laws, 5 legislative proposals and three more are in the high stage of completion, and this Family was a huge job and we are ready for the Household Act and will be passed. I would, however, like to point out that the government that adopted the National Plan for Deinstitutionalisation and Transformation of Homes and the Social Strategy has put the law to bear in 2014. So much for worrying about being late. As far as European funds are concerned, my first working day was dedicated to the fact that not only had the competition been called but it had not begun to write. And you don't have accurate information, that tender has been prepared since the day I arrived, and it was the first competition in this ministry to withdraw funds and European funds, and we have continued to do so. I know that you have information because the ministry official at the time was in charge of the job and she gave you information that was not correct. You say in one newspaper, in the press, if I understand correctly that there are no European funds for our ministry. No, the corrections, they didn't exist. As I learned that day about the delay in the competition, the competition was first out of the European Social Fund and spoke of by Mrs Ljubica. Also from this fund is published 5 calls totalling 426 million kuna and there is this tender where the funds for 116 million and 465 kuna for personal assistants are withdrawn and agreed for two deinstitutionalisation projects in the transformation of homes of social care, competitiveness and cohesion as well. Calls were opened at 251 million and 846 thousand, three calls were made, of which four projects were agreed and two projects were high in completion and the contract of 3 million and 174 thousand is expected to be signed. Also out there are already published in the contract of two major FEAD competitions, FEAD for 25 million and 49 million aid from humanitarian aid. So much for those accusations. So in this year's work, I'd like more talk about the ministry's work, not so much about ideological issues, but they're about Family Law, they're about other laws that are in our jurisdiction, and it's definitely gonna be the topic of debate, but we expect one thing and respect and one argument. What I might say in the end, as far as demographics are concerned. Today, under the current clock, the question was exactly what we are planning, so the prime minister said what we have done so far in terms of demographic renewal and revitalisation, and I was saying on the current hour exactly what you are saying right now is that we need to strengthen the institutional capacity of kindergartens, that we need to strengthen and coordinate the working time of kindergartens, that we will raise the censorship for children's allowance, that in this way we will get one greater coverage of our young families, even assume for 100 thousand that they will receive then and, children, their clear allowances, but we will get the opportunity to get them in the third, fourth child's ultimate supplement. And I'm running out of time, and I'm gonna answer everything else in replicas or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56753	I thank Minister Nadi Murganic for this explanation of the obvious. We've got a few replicas, first of all, a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56754	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to ask you. Tell Mr Plenkovic, he said here that Minister Murganic enjoys your trust and that you are behind it entirely. Those are your words. You know what I remembered? The same words when you spoke of Minister Barisic and the unfortunate man ended up as he ended up, as the expendable goods are no longer there. And I'd like to tell you, you've been talking about demographics here, what this government of yours is doing, so I'm going to read you a letter from Ersta Bank for Single Mother Jakšić Jadranka from Maleshnica 50 in Zagreb. Mr. Prime Minister, there's a single mother waiting for a raid. She can't return it. There's no home loan. Says the call to pay the judge's loan, quit the loan. Dearly respected, since you failed to fulfil your obligations within the contractual deadlines, on the basis of housing loan number 5101931231 of 11.11.2004. etc., we cancel with you on 22.5.2017. credit and that it is currently due to the collection of some numbers in wild amounts. And why am I telling you this? So I'm talking to you to realize that you and your government and your minister won't protect such families and all these families are unfortunately waiting at the end of the raids, and all of your story about how you don't know, helping her lie, is a lie, like when you said that a mother who has three children will have the status of a foster mother, you never gave them that status, so you told them that the newborn child will get 1,000 euros, now you're talking about some most creative supplement, but that's all the story, and that's the reality of family involvement with small children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56755	I thank my colleague Pernar for his replica. Next replica, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56756	Here's the Honorable Prime Minister, first of all, I appreciate you taking responsibility for yourself. I also greatly appreciate you standing behind your minister. In your brief address, you said a failure had been made and you said a mistake had been made in the procedure, and respecting the procedures we all know is the foundation of democracy, the basic foundation of democracy. Therefore, here is no question of your responsibility, here we are not talking about a natural person, Mrs Nadia Murganic, we are talking about a minister, a minister who has failed to react and released an unacceptable proposal of the Family Law in public procedure. In the previous point, you said that in this Parliament, in this House, I fully agree with you, that we need a much higher political standard, on the grounds that we have a high degree of political standard, the minister herself would not even bring you into this situation but would resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56757	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi, for this replica. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, as you yourself said in your address, this law did not come to the benches of the government, it was actually stopped after a day and a half in a public debate. However, if it had been done in accordance with the rules, if the procedure for assessing the effects of the rules had been followed, this would not have occurred. What does the assessment of the effects of the regulations mean? Answer one key question: Why are we passing a new law, or why are we changing the existing law? I haven't heard from either of you or the minister yet why you decided to amend the Family Law except that the continuing claim that the existing or existing law is not good because the Constitutional Court annulled it at some point. The Constitutional Court, the 2014 law did not cancel, suspended it for a few months until it made a decision it had never made, in the meantime it was almost passed and an identical law in 2015 that is in force today. Secondly, the Constitutional Court has never questioned the content and what amazes me, the HDZ is a serious party as well as the SDP and many parties here, which goes to elections with certain programmes. If your program is the center of demographics and your family, then I guess for four years as you prepare for power, in your program you consult with experts and do a draft and framework of what you should be among other things one of the key pillars of your program, which is the Family Law. And it can't be a failure or a procedural mistake, that you're so without the knowledge of politics and without a political decision changes the definition of family. Don't plant that thesis because then you're making us do it or it's your political decision to claim it wasn't or else that someone took advantage of the opportunity and planted it and we'll talk about it later. But then who runs politics in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56759	I thank my colleague Sabina the Voice on this replica. Next replica, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56760	Replica prime minister. You've taken responsibility for yourself, but as well as your HDZ colleagues, you've actually tried to cloud the situation. You only talk about the law all the time. Yes, the law at the stage he was proposed was scandalous. It was a primitive attempt to imprison the right to human rights and civilization values so far acquired. He didn't make it, because the whole public got on their feet. You wouldn't have pulled that off if it were a mild camel, as you say. Second of all, that law is not in the government's work programme at all. How is it possible that the ministers behind your back are preparing draft laws that aren't in your program? The second, or third, there are 5 more decided reasons for the departure of Minister Murganic in the absence of any reaction to a series of cases of sexual abuse. Unacceptable and irresponsible delay in the adoption of laws in foster care. Inadmissible delay in the transformation of institutions for children without adequate parental care and with problems in the behaviour of the centre of support for families and children, an irresponsible relationship with 86m euros available for improved working conditions of institutions, deinstitutionalisation, transformation of homes for persons with disabilities. A great delay in calling for tendering from the European Fund for the most needed. 6 key reasons, I will explain it later and 7, and he lies in the government's explanation, i.e. in the position of the government with which you defend the minister. It sets out 8 incorrect claims. Maybe the minister wrote it to you, so there's another reason for the shift, because these eight claims you've made here are also scandalous, because you're saying false things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56761	Here's just a brief review, since my colleagues said a lot in the debates, individually before the minister and I had the opportunity to say a few words that we reject the arguments of this non-confidential initiative. So, uh... The procedure was respected, there was no error in the procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I've been trying to say, I don't think you understand me very well. The procedure is such that at this early stage, therefore, we are talking about the level of the public group, the thesis in the public debate, the re-work of the task force, the ministry, only then to go out for e-consultation. That's how it was in previous governments. At that stage, any early draft of any text, these documents do not come either to the government or to other resorts. That's what I'm telling you. When we saw this situation, we decided to change the procedure. Exactly, to have one previous political filter. Not in every act, because it would slow down the work of the executive, but those important relevant documents. This is the law that we were working on, as I said back in 2016 when a task force was established during the past government. By the Minister's decision, the E Working Group's composition was completed, in February, I guess, right? 2017, so the work continued. The act itself is foreseen in the programme of legislative activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me, indeed, that when you consider all this, when you make sure that a new proposal will be drawn up that will be agreed among coalition partners, that the law will come into practice. That this initiative, with all its business obligations towards it, is nevertheless disproportionate to the stage in which the act was. As for the decision, to withdraw the document, retreated after the minister and I discussed the substance, at the moment we made that decision, regardless of anyone's reaction. Just for information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56762	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Andre Plenkovic. We move on to the next line, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56763	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister Murganic. I have a few questions, first question, why even impeachment? The main reason is the opposition has nothing to do, so it simply tries to be destructive, so here it manifests itself in a way that tries to destabilise the Croatian government, i.e. Croatian ministers. And then, if we go for concrete reasons, here, just before colleagues Richembergh finally read the reasons. But the key is actually this, the value and system of the bill, which has been withdrawn in the meantime, is extremely dogmatic, and the draft itself prescribes values that are not generally accepted, value and system. That's right, buddy. And this way I call on both the Resort Ministry and, behold, all ministers in the Croatian government, that as much as possible this value system, which they are growing, in which they are actually brought up to try to implement all Croatian laws, because they have also received the mandate. As you have done, so will this government, i.e. ministers who have received a mandate from the Croatian Parliament. Now why is the law withdrawn? The prime minister said it was an early, early phase, but he wouldn't want to be withdrawn again because of what you've done, what a well-organized attack, means opposition first of all, in collaboration with the media, with that famous civil society that's still richly funded by state money. So we got an orchestrated attack in a short time, so we created an air conditioning, that in law something was wrong. And on this occasion here, I call again on the Resort Ministry, not to give up, possibly, if at all, on the definition of the family that is provided for here, because later on, I will try to say that it is far too much and that the profession is very much behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56764	I thank my esteemed colleague Zekanovic for his replica. Next replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My replica goes to Minister Murganic. Madam Minister, in fact, one part and the Prime Minister, therefore, first of all, it is necessary to say that it was a fair admission that it was a mistake, that in the draft law, in this format and there is a consensus in the assessment, at least partially, here, if anything, in the assessment of what the quality of this proposal is. However, after assessing us as the opposition that this draft is not good. We also suggested, we were actually looking at that moment to change the task force. Namely, this task force has drawn up such a bill and I don't see it, so the same way as someone who ran the task force through a legitimate process in the executive government. So, I don't know how such a working group can implement any other bill except for the one that has been drawn up in the composition of the one in which it was. So, I think that and how much I managed to figure out at the end of the media post after the draft was withdrawn you actually gave people from the ministry to work on an alternative. So, you're if that information is correct, you tell me, if that's true then you realize that this task force can't actually do anything better or different than that. As much as my colleague Zekanovic may be angry, so he may have been a little ambiguous or unspeakable in that. But in this task force, it was above average that those who, in a political sense, really represent the margin. counterpart Zekanovic won 1.96% of the vote in his election unit. So in this sense, if greater influences in lawmaking were given to those who, in a political sense, have less legitimacy. So that's the proportion. That's what we're talking about. So that's not mean stream.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56766	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56767	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, thank you and fellow Glavasevic who just said what my goal was. So 1.96% is indeed a marginal part of the Croatian population. My replica goes to Ms. Murganic. Since one of the major remarks regarding your work related to the Istanbul Convention, and you didn't say anything in this presentation, so maybe we should cut back on what you're about to say later. So, the deadline was according to your forecasts and promises on October 2nd, 2 months since the start of the e-consultation that you will submit a report on the debate and that we will then go to the Parliament for the adoption of that declaration. This declaration also has symbolic but essential content. It is symbolic because it will show that in Croatia there is indeed absolute desire and will to suppress all forms of domestic violence, and content that we will bring a whole series of solutions, legal regulations, to ensure that domestic violence is contained. Why is it late, why is it waiting and when will we finally have a report on the debate and debate in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56768	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. I would really ask you respected colleagues and colleagues not to count the number of votes and percentages in your discussions and replicas, correct, competent, inclusive, tolerant, responsible, dignified, not to count the number of votes and percentages regardless of the number of percentages. That doesn't mean they're less valuable than those who had more. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56769	238. Disdaining. My colleague, I'm not angry. I'm glad no matter who we are, we're marginal. A large SDP that is in the tension of its strength is paying attention to a small, small HRAST. That's what I find interesting. So who are we? So marginally I say a huge so stable SDP with one great party president paying attention to us. Just keep going, give us media attention. I'm personally very pleased. Otherwise, over 2,000 people have circled my name among 200 candidates in my constituency. Well, it could've been more, and it could've been less. ... Two got less, I think. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56770	Comrade Zekanovic, I thank you for your injury to the Rules of Procedure. Before your injury to the Rules of Procedure, I said something and asked all my colleagues and colleagues. I really don't know what the still counting continues to be, but well, you have a business opportunity. I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied with the answer, you have the right to object to the committee responsible. Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56771	Thank you. Well, Mr. Chairman, whenever Mr. Zekanovic answers and violates the Rules of Procedure, I will also report to him and I will tell him I have nothing against HRAST. The oak is great for all Croatian schools, but only for the parquet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56772	Mr. Jovanovic, first you did not call on the article of the Rules of Procedure, he is, you did not listen well. But I don't think there's any point in explaining the breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Once again, I appeal to everyone to stop such an incorrect establishment of some of our colleagues and to be correct towards each other. I also don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I urge you to object to the committee responsible. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56773	Thank you. So, although this is formally called a recall debate, this is a previous debate under the Family Law Draft. So what comes before the first reading and I am glad that the prime minister is here, because it is still some guarantee that next time that proposal will be such that it will not have to withdraw after a day and a half. That's not bad. Secondly, the day it came out at the same time as the Prime Minister criticised the minister for apologizing. Part of the HDZ Club defended the bill in Parliament. Now he's also defending part of the club. Therefore, there is obviously a political dispute in the HDZ itself over the Family Law. Now, let's say that my colleague Babic defended him. Now I'm just curious about what he's gonna say on behalf of the club. Now, the prime minister said it was a disproportionate reaction. Perhaps even in the case of prime minister to minister, it was a disproportionate reaction, perhaps he should have reacted more strongly. So we can discuss who's proportionate, who's disproportionate. But the appointment of such a working group, informing such a draft is a joint design venture. A different proposal could not be expected from such a working group, and this is the political responsibility of the minister for such a thing. I didn't say that word they see... I just said "designed." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as I'm concerned, I don't know if there's any hope for the Family Law with a little "n" but I hope that the hope with a big "N" will give little "n" to those who expect a quality Family Law and what kind of law can the government in which the HRAST and the HNS are in the coalition, family, world view? He can't. So there's going to be a dispute about it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56774	I thank my colleague, Bauk. You continue in the same tone, I see you have listened to my recommendations and my appeals and requests. Replicated colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56775	Madam Minister, in the government's statement, writes here, on what you said, the Government of the Republic of Croatia claims that the European Fund's tender for the most needed mitigation of poverty, by providing assistance and the most needed persons in phase 2 will be announced by the end of October. Do you know when it was published? Yesterday. It's November 7th yesterday. But it wouldn't be a big delay if you hadn't said in your speech that the story was high-level. I'm asking you what kind of joke if a contest was announced yesterday. So you're saying wrong. You are late in all the funds, i.e. in all the possibilities of using the funds, and very, very much so. Well, you only spent almost a year on the formation of your ministry. So how many months have your officers been on he holding, not knowing what he's going to do? How many people have refused to participate in the revision of this Family Law? Why did you call the team over the weekend to write a new proposal if everything was wonderful and wonderful? So that's what you've been saying to yourself that since you arrived as Minister, this has never existed before. I will take the opportunity later, I have announced to say all the dates from which it is seen that in this clear government you have tried very hard to deceive the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56776	I thank my colleague, Beus Richmberg, for this replica. Reply from counterpart Nada Murganić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56777	Thank you. About family law. You would be surprised how a working group was composed in terms of people with different world view. However, we made sure that they were also lawyers from college, rights, we made sure that they were from the Social Labour Study, that they were social workers and operatives and certainly also associations. And the ones on the left and the right ideological spectrum, and I think that's something that should have been positive, and that's how we always created and proposed working groups when we were doing the drafts of some laws. My intention is indeed to pass a law that will satisfy most of our citizens. In that I was really and really self-critical and real. And why, you tell me, why we retreated and went to law school. Because we pulled the law and we wanted to do it. Don't worry about the employees at the Ministry. You don't have a reason for how ministry employees do that's the job of a manager and a manager and who's what he refuses to do on that bill, so you tell me so I can see who's refusing to do some jobs. The information about these funds, in the high degree of completion, I mentioned these contracts from the competitiveness and cohesion program. FEAD is in the part in which the diet, for the school kitchens, is indeed already under way, the competition is still open, the financial envelope has been increased to 25 million kuna and I don't know exactly what is not yet counted in this statement. And one more thing, how did you get such information? From where?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56778	I thank Minister Nadi Murganic for his reply to the replica. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56779	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Minister of Cooperation and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, maybe it's even good to discuss this opposition request for the Minister's recall on Family Law. Well, it's okay to discuss family law on a number of occasions, on a number of layers, and to be able to deliver opinions, and it's okay for the public to be as sensitive as possible with this problem and ultimately to pass as high-quality law as possible. The truth is that our club will, of course, not support the recall request because we support the minister and the government and in general in this request we see no reason or argument to support such a request. It's really very manipulative here. So after the law entered the public debate stage, there was a mistake. It's really very hard to define the concept of family, it's really very hard. The minister also reacted very well to me by the Prime Minister himself, they heard the voice of the public, and they accepted the voice of the public. I don't see what's wrong with that. If only our previous governments had listened to the voice of the public in all their years today, they would have probably had a lot more of better laws. And now that we have been listening to the voice of the public, we are now seeking the recall of the minister who has withdrawn the law to do so and is preparing a better version of the law. It's a really pointless move for me, and I'm going to say a little bit later on about this move, and I'm going to argue that it's not pointless at all, that it's something quite meaningful and planned. Something about the request itself. The system of values in the draft law, which has been withdrawn in the meantime, is extremely dogmatic, and the draft itself prescribes values that are not generally accepted value of all segments of society. What segments of society? On the right, on the left, we are all segments of society, all right to our own opinion, we can express our views and say which segment of society. Do those smaller groups or some larger groups, do they violence minorities over most? What are we talking about? I would really like to know what this is generally accepted value of all segments of society. It is also said that, for example, out - of - wedlock couples would not be able to adopt children under the same conditions as married couples, but only exceptionally if there are particularly valid reasons on the part of a child. And that's why, one of the reasons for the Minister's recall? I'm sorry, dear people, but I think a married couple of men and women have an absolute advantage in adopting children. Well, it's in the interest of children in the interests of society, if we want society based on those pillars that really are the foundation, which is marriage of men and women. I don't see in this definition or in this part anything controversial, even though I absolutely support it. Furthermore, parents first and foremost have the freedom to decide independently on child rearing and education in accordance with their own conviction, taking into account both the rights and the welfare of the child. And who's supposed to decide about kids? Who? The street? Associations of some? Who should decide about children rather than parents in the first place? Who takes responsibility for raising children? Who? My parents, I guess. What's the matter here? I'd really like to hear what's going on here. It's absolutely acceptable to me. Furthermore, we have this part that was particularly presented in public, where parents are said to have a duty and to have the right to raise a child as a free, moral, peaceful, patriotic, hardworking, sensitive and responsible person, respecting the principles of gender equality in order to be prepared for a coherent family and social life with a positive attitude towards people and nature. And watch the interesting thing now, and this is the reason for the Minister's recall for one word. One word was drawn from this entire text, a patriotic rearing. And how should I be raised? Inhospitable, anti-hospital, anti-Croatian. How are we supposed to raise? What's wrong with that word? I'm looking for an explanation, I don't understand what's wrong with teaching kids to love their country or to tell them school and go outside. Is that what we're gonna talk about? When you're looking for someone's recall, that's the problem, and when we talk about raising kids to love their country, then that's another problem, so do we love our country? I'm not sure, I'm not sure we all love our country. We have further to blame the minister that she is guilty of not knowing, the court or the ministry has not passed... the law or some verdict has been passed. Well, it's not up to the minister to decide which verdict will be reached. And all this together so I don't keep counting, I want to connect a little with not so long ago. The motion for the ministry's impeachment was signed by 30 and some MPs and MPs, of course it could have been more. And it's not this request to recall the minister at all related to some major errors in her work that she doesn't really have, especially this short year, because what she found in the ministry will certainly not be remedied for much longer, it will surely solve the accumulated problems for a long time. This is the plan, this is the plan that has been implemented since the first day the government was formed. It is implemented planically and carried out in accordance with what has been said here that the role of the opposition is to watch out for what the government is doing and to encourage the government to do better. No dear people, we have in the Croatian Parliament today an opposition which is a hyperdestructive and the only objective and task is the destabilising of the government and it is done continuously, so less than a year we have a third request for ministers' impeachment, we already have a request for the government's impeachment. Is that the role of opposition? Let's go back a year, this request was signed by six ministers from the Kukuriku government. I ask the question, was I in that 7th session how many times did the opposition then ask for a vote of confidence to which minister? Dear ministers of that time on this list, do you really think that you have never made a mistake in your four-year job or how many years you have been and that you have not earned to be called off in the same way as Minister Murganic? Well, they deserved some not to call them off, but to rush them out of the office, what you've been doing. The next request will now be signed by other ministers sitting in the Assembly today, and there will be such calls for impeachment again. And we need stability. We need a little peace, we need a constructive opposition, an opposition that will really keep track of what the government is doing, encourage the government to do better, with its proposals, criticisms, but in place and time when it should be. What's going on in the Croatian Parliament, these people can't watch anymore. Except for those who really want to watch some of these shows that are kind of not even funny anymore. What we do is one general destruction and what we do is cause discomfort in the stomach of every Croatian citizen towards MPs primarily, and then to all people who deal with politics. We create anarchy in society, create problems and do it here, on the biggest political stage in Croatia. We do it all the time here. I'm asking you to really think about what you're doing and start acting differently. It is clear to me that today the opposition in the Croatian Parliament is quite weak, that it is divided, that they have problems among themselves and that they have to create other problems to actually draw attention from their internal problems. I am not talking about all parties, some are compact and stable, of course we are talking primarily about the biggest party in the Croatian Parliament as an opposition party. And that's even legitimate right. But it's entertaining citizens at their expense. Let's think about whether this really is the place where we're going to entertain the citizens at their expense. Is this where we're gonna play, play, poke each other a little bit instead of moving forward? There's talk here of this in the demand that European projects are not launched, no money has been withdrawn. The truth is, we haven't done what we should've done in a year, we're not, we're thin, but you see, these things are holding us back. Because in this assembly we talk about things like this instead of doing business and pulling money, maybe making laws, we have more time for some laws to pull money out of European funds, but for God's sake, so it's not like you expect government representatives, the Kukuriku coalitions that were super champions in not withdrawing European money now to say that some ministry isn't pulling money. Did we forget that? I invite you all, especially the right-hand side to occasionally remind you of what the government was doing not so long ago here. So let's remind ourselves a little, people are forgetful. They quickly forget what happened. So, it's about the planning activity of hyper destruction that simply has no room left, and I think most of the Croatian Parliament definitely needs to react harder, become more involved and suppress these attempts that happen here all the time. They will continue to be, it will be one great burden to the government that will carry on its back, but I think it has enough power to carry it out and that, in addition to everything that's being thrown at her feet, which is really doing something that isn't exactly seen, that this government will still be much, much more successful and is already than that government whose representatives of the latter are now trying to do it all. So, distinguished ministers our club absolutely supports you and proceed with your activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56780	I thank my colleagues, Hrga. We have 12 replicas, hopefully constructive ones. The first one was answered by a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56781	Dear Mr. Hrg, you said: "our club will not support the request for impeachment because we do not see any arguments." For this very reason I feel the need to read you a letter from my colleague Petra Horvatic and it concerns you. Really, but I really don't understand how the HDZ gentlemen and all those who vote for them are not ashamed? I'm walking around town today, every 200 meters people drag plastic bottles into bags. I come in front of my building, a man digs in a container, hungry in torn clothes. My friends from grade and high school are coming to me from abroad because there's no work for them here. I'll see one of my best friends for Christmas. I haven't seen her since last year because she had to go to Germany to work. How, how can you not be ashamed? I collect bottles at home plastic and put them in a bag. When it's filled next to the can in front of the building. I can tell you that in five minutes when I go look at those bottles no more. Don't you have any sense of responsibility for everything that's going on in our country? Aren't you ashamed at all? Do you have any consciences at all? How can you not be ashamed to represent yourself as a Christian party? How can you be such inhumans and act like it's none of your business? We know how, because you from your luxury apartments and a fairy with a lunch that stands more my week's food I eat can't see everything I've listed or pretend you don't see. Just keep sitting in your comfortable chairs, and we ordinary citizens, who are not members of your party, will still eat pasta and potatoes every day because we don't have any more. You could honestly be happy that I have it in the first place, when I look around. I thank God for that potato and pasta, because I can conclude that I live above average, because the average will soon become a garbage dig and bottle collection. How can you not be ashamed? That's what Petra Horvatic writes to you and that's my question to all of you here who support this policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56782	I thank my colleague Pernar. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56783	Comrade Pernar, we're sitting in the same chairs, and you and me and all the people here. It's really interesting how you're trying to create the impression that you're sitting in another chair. We're sitting in the same chairs, just defending different policies. ... I'm sorry, I didn't interrupt. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, well, it's your old strategy, but it doesn't matter. You're welcome to go outside. You better get out of here than I'm carrying you. Why do people bother? But anyway, what my colleague Pernar was just saying, I was just saying. If we weren't dating these abnormal and illogical demands, then we could be dealing with other laws, other programs. Then the minister, with all her services today, could probably work on some new rules, work on some new programs, and solve such problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56784	I thank Mr. Horg for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Hrg, I'm glad you asked a very important question, which is who should educate children, if not parents? What I think, I'm afraid, is that those who are actually behind this proposal want to do it, not the state, but individual ideological groups, who currently have power in that country. Now, what kind of regime is that typical of? What regimes are typical of wanting to take over all segments of life and raise children instead of parents from small legs? It is unfortunately much more characteristic of totalitarian regimes than democratic regimes. And that is precisely why international human rights documents, explicitly acknowledge the right of parents, once again I will read, to ensure education and teaching according to their religious and philosophical beliefs. So that's exactly what it means. So one as a defender for the protection of human rights and ultimately the liberalism that some here love to call on. By the very beginning of liberal states, it is precisely that people and parents have the right to decide within their beliefs that they will raise their children. Well, here, I think that's something you should point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56786	I thank my colleague Sokol. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56787	Thank you, dear colleague. I said there, for me it's a clear definition and no one can change it or let anyone get into my head anything else. There's nothing warmer than a family home to raise a child. Here's where the dues on the left-hand side of the school are now. So we kicked out of school. Well, we're down to education. Raising is constantly neglecting, disappearing. Listen to those people who are engaged, who are enlightened, those older teachers, those teachers who are the foundation, who have once failed. Vapes and whines, people go back to school. And we want to get him out of the family. Where does it start? Absolutely and I'm saying, we have to hold that side tight, not allow, anarchy in that part, not allow the destruction of the foundations of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56788	I thank Mr. Horg for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56789	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Hrg, in your discussion, you asked us to go back a year and remember what things looked like then. That's what you said, referring to the Ministers of the Government as you said. But if we've been spinning for a year in the past, we're actually in the same government. If we go back a little bit more to the past, then we are in the time of that government led by that gentleman, who could not speak Croatian, as God commands. It was also the government that trampled uncompromisingly on the democratic values of this society. It's also the government that you supported. And for the Milanovics, i.e., for the Kukuriku Government, we still have to go back a little bit more to the past. Of course, the other problem with that kind of argument, which is always possible, like, here you see here you're resenting someone, and actually you were wrong, is the problem with that, in fact, it doesn't explain the point of your debate. In fact, it does not disprove the measure of what is being put on the burden of Minister Murganic or the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, she's just saying, look, here you are when you had the chance, it wasn't worth it. That doesn't mean we don't have the right to blame things right now. And besides, with all due respect, I mean, there's a limited deadline, a time limit, in which you can mention things that happened in the past, and that it has some weight. I think it's clear to everyone that the Kukuriku Government, as you said, is long gone. And even more when we go back, that is, in the recent past, we just have things that you just can't pin on these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56790	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56791	My colleague Glavasevic, you've been counting for months, and I've told the Kukuriku Vlada, the Ministers of Kukuriku Vlad. Yeah, yeah, well, a year ago, we're back a year ago. Okay, go back 15 months, go back four years. And I'm asking you now what I said in my debate, I'm asking you now, do you really think, that the ministers, the former ones who signed this request, as I said in the debate, didn't deserve many times some of their mistakes, perhaps not intentional and unconscious, that they were called in the same way and asked for their recall. Do you think that some ministers of that time, too, will I tell you an example of an interesting minister of the time, do you think that then Minister of Agriculture Mr. Jakovina did not deserve to be asked for his impeachment? Well, that's your minister, which you would ask for, you got most of it in the election, you agreed to the government, you had most of it in the Parliament, it was given you the opportunity to work and warn and criticize what you're doing. I could still list... the minister. And it's not that far away that we shouldn't go back, it's not that far away because the consequences of this government's work we're suffering today and we're taking it hard today. And you guys can laugh as much as you want, it's your right to laugh, but I'm telling you we should also laugh at your request to recall Minister Murganic because you really don't have any argument valid for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56792	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56793	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hrg, I'm extremely glad that you've made such a fine number of reasons in your presentation, I'd say the alleged reasons for the replacement of ministers who, of course, are not. One mistake about the Family Law did no harm to anyone and you said in time the minister reacted, in time the prime minister reacted. It would be good if colleagues who signed as you yourself said were ministers in the SDP government, if they remembered how many laws were passed during that government by direct damage to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, at least some of their provisions. I'll just mention two, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the Law on the Single Body of Art, some provisions of those laws because the public didn't want to listen then. Also today, Minister Murganic and Minister Pavic have a lot of work to do to fix these mistakes. I'm not just talking about people with disabilities. When I talk about art, I'm talking about every man who can be about six months sick must go to art school to see if he's getting a pension or not. Many died when they sought their rights because the artisan was waiting for a year and more, and the unique body of art only functioned three years after the law was passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56794	I thank my colleague Lukacic. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56795	Thank you, dear colleague Lukacic. Of course, not only could there be a list of laws that were all made and that had a lot of harmful effects on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If we went to list both various regulations and various arbitrary decisions and various distributions of money and various rentals of some expensive space, everything could be numbered. There's a lot of it, but I'd like to end this debate today, and the one on Friday, and really all together to accept the job and the good laws that we're competing and we're fighting just to get the best laws to make this assembly a place that people will look at because they see when some law is passed that this law goes in their favor as this Law of Employment of Persons with Disabilities went.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56796	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56797	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Hrg. So you're saying that this state of instability of the government is guilty of destructive opposition. I don't know if you, like Representative Boric, are sleeping in this House so you don't see what's going on, but it's the Prime Minister's decision to replace the Most Minister's office and to make Lex Agrokor after that. It's your main cause of this government's instability. To think that the SDP government's instability, GLAS, I don't know who the Living Wall is, no, if the Prime Minister had known how to preserve the parliamentary majority with which he joined the coalition and put together governments, there would probably not be any of these discussions today. That's your first and primary cause. Open your eyes. And the second main reason is that after he broke his own government with a more prominent, arrogant move rarely seen in politics, namely that, after a vote within 20 seconds, ministers were replaced, without any dialogue, without any cultural dissension, announced at least, and then it went to the conclusion of the parliamentary majority with methods that would not embarrass Cosa Nostra. And, of course, now that this government is shaking, normally that now the government is raining on every movement of HRAST, on every movement of Muscle, on every move of Sauche, every move, their blink, their blackmail, their awakening of whether they're up on their left or right feet, that's why the government is unstable. And there will be more of this, and that will be because if the government was already going to be torn down, early elections should be called and a new legal parliamentary majority should be drawn up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56798	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56799	But we didn't understand each other very well. I was talking about a hyperdestructive opposition that's been trying all along to cause the government's instability. I didn't say at any point that the government was unstable, even though I am convinced that it is stable and will prove it Friday at the vote. That's not at all controversial. But, you know, I am convinced that most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would rather listen to discussions here on the laws that will continue to increase their salaries, which will be safer growing up their children, which will develop local self-government, which will create conditions for the lives of citizens where they live than a debate on the trust of a minister we know in advance that will end up so that the minister will have confidence. It's an actual state and people know it, so it's no wisdom whatsoever. And that's what you know that you've been running at the very least this process is going to end that way. So, what's the occasion? What is the objective of this process? What is the objective of this process? What? I'm sure it's not that attempt to bring down the minister because we're aware in advance that it won't work. So it's about pure destruction. And destruction offers nothing good. Nothing good will happen in destruction or something will develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56800	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56801	Your Honor, Vice President. Here's colleague Hrg, you can see that we from MOST didn't participate too much in this debate. I've already commented on this GLAS initiative and it's clear to me logically. They went to their former party colleagues to test on an ideological issue and I'm telling them there's no point in it, I'm following my colleague Curray on the Assembly's Investigation Commission and how our vice president of the Parliament's eye, so Curly by jumping. So no, it doesn't make any sense to test your former party colleagues on this issue, nothing special is going to happen here. As far as the government is concerned, our position is clear, so we are in favour of impeaching this government, there are a lot of ministers who should leave before Minister Murganic. I don't think sending some law to a public debate is some big sin. We're having a mega affair today, so FIMI-MEDIA, how long was her colleague from HDZ? 35 million. Today we have an affair of 10 million direct contracts without a public tender, Minister Žalac. In every serious country, it's immediate resignation, it's immediate resignation. We're talking about the minister who sent the law to a public debate. As far as the government is concerned, I'm ordering colleagues from Hrga and the ruling majority to read what the President of the Republic said today. She told you everything about this government and what this government is doing, what this government isn't doing. When it comes to opposition, the opposition is not a destructive colleague of Hrg's. How did you vote on the law on overpaid, or illegally increased interest rates, which was sent out of the opposition? And the opposition in that sense means we don't think the same thing. And you who are part of the ruling majority think as Miljan Brkic tells you or as Andrej Plenkovic tells you. You have no attitude. Why didn't you support the law that goes in favor of all our citizens? Why didn't you do it? Here, answer me now in your replica. Was that constructive? And what do we have from the ruling majority, what legal proposal? Lex Sheriff who protects their mayors and their captains.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56802	I thank my colleagues never Grumoji, the eye of the Falcon. The answer of my colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56803	I can hardly give you a reply from my colleague Grumo because you basically didn't say anything about what I was saying but, you know, I understand your anger, the anger of MOST. I understand you, you're simply frustrated that you failed in some of your intentions and that something surprised you. You can't be both position and opposition. You've got to set yourself up. You've been having a hard time setting yourself up, so you're being second-guessed. And now you're simply showing your frustration here by attacking in some way colleagues and colleagues who are discussing. No, that's what we'll do when the time comes for these things, then we'll talk about it, answer. You've replicated, my colleague Bulj often lifts the sticks for the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, obviously knows very well the Rules of Procedure, so he knows that he must not interfere with his colleagues in the debate or throw them out of place while he speaks, everything else is so that I really don't know what to say to him because you haven't replicated, you haven't replicated, but of course you've used 2 minutes for some debate that needs something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56804	I thank my colleagues, Hrga. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you for a moment... My colleague Bulj and my colleague Grumoja, I would like to ask you for some parliamentaryism and correctness while my colleague Hrg answers that you do not enter his word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Next replica, respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So today, everyone is full of advice to us in opposition to what we should be doing in this assembly, obviously to shut up and nod our heads. First, Minister Kujundzic, then prime minister, now MP Hrg. Otherwise, the Croatian representative sprayed construction while he was in opposition. I remember all of his constructive proposals that were so good that we really enjoyed listening to them. So we are a real opposition, an opposition that does all the things that political textbooks need to do. When a good proposal comes, we support it, when a bad proposal comes, we try to fix it. When we feel that through a debate like we have today we can point to certain problems and offer solutions and do so. Mr. Hrg wonders why there were no more requests for impeachment in our government. It's very simple, because we had a powerful majority, Mr. Hrg. Not most of them based on the judicial stones of Saucha, Bandic, parts of HNS and Mr. Glavas. That is why we are constantly testing this majority because it is the thin majority, the majority that does not guarantee Croatian society the progress and quality of life that Croatian citizens deserve and they are asking us to do so because 77% of citizens say that this government is going in the wrong direction, according to the latest survey. Therefore, our job of opposition is also to point out in Parliament, and it will not surely say that the President of the State is Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic and part of the SDP and the opposition, and what she said today to your prime minister and to this government, imagine that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56806	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Comrade Hrg's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56807	Thank you very much. A colleague, Jovanovic, did not tell my prime minister, she told our prime minister. That's what was said earlier on your part. The prime minister is the prime minister of all Croatian citizens. It's chosen by most, and we all respect it and criticize it, and that's the way it is. I didn't say you couldn't do it, I just made my point, my views, one little analysis of one thing and the other. And how powerful or how powerless, okay, it's always like that, it's always possible to question. I'm just asking myself a question that benefits citizens? That's my question. What benefit do citizens benefit from this interrogation? Is this a study goal I don't know, let's challenge new elections, legitimate right, attempt to create a new majority, do you really think that in some new SDP elections it would go better than it is now? I think in this situation where the SDP now finds itself that it should be the first party not to challenge the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56808	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's colleague Hrg, I think you've detected two lines of attack that go well by the left resistance. One is the adoption of children, you said exactly, you do not see why it would not give priority to marriage communities, why marriage would not and in this way affirm, it is a very, very important social institution and in the extreme line and Croatian citizens who are mentioned so many times today, said what they think and what the definition of marriage is, even if that left opposition did not like, but there was clear who the majority is and what the majority wants. And the second question is education and the right of parents to have the primary right to education of children, of course in cooperation with the state. But the primary right of parents and in accordance with international conventions. And you were wondering why someone would go and touch it? Perhaps you can answer here this summer, Veran Zuppa is that an interview where it is essentially said that the left is no longer interested in workers' rights but in the domination of culture, science and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56810	I thank my colleague Stier for the replica. Comrade Hrg's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56811	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, if really what you've confirmed yourself, it's a fact of fact, it's like that, but there's one interesting thing, I'm back in the past a little bit 15, 16 months ago so someone doesn't fix me again for months. Yes, the citizens have made very clear what they consider to be marriage. But then the powerful majority in the Croatian Parliament played the citizens. She tricked them into walking. So that's actually where these differences are being made and certain intentions are being shown. And it absolutely needs to be said very loudly, clearly and slightly return to something that's making us tang now. And the absolute right of the championship in adopting a child, for the sake of a child, should certainly have a marriage, a man and a woman to be clear here. To the end. And then there are other options if they're in the child's interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56812	I thank Mr. Horg for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56813	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the question where is the end of this, whether maybe the SDP, given that every six months it's possible to make this procedure, take advantage of that, I agree with that, here's exactly what I wanted to suggest, even 3 months because it's 60 and it can be 2 times 30, and then it can be for all the ministers, so we'd actually get a constant prime minister in the assembly here, here's one of my advice, try to get all the ministers out of the order to solve or put them here, a proposal for them to call off. And here I still have to say a little bit about the coalition, someone mentioned, a colleague named Bauk mentioned about the HRAST and HNS coalition, how it could work at all. Yes, the HNS and the HRAST can, but the HRAST and the Voice can't. So we're for plurality, for conversation, that's right, but not for us, but for you because you're not, that's right, I'm not offering you any coalition because you're not for compromise, you're not for plurality, you're not for talking, and you're even bothered when it's put on, and in this law that parents have the right to raise their children, that they have the right to choose, you're not the right to choose, you're to be by your own or by no means. And I'm going to ask another question at the end, and that's every law that's not good we can immediately ask the Minister's recall, where the end is. So let's go. So you're prejudge. Every law, you don't have to... about the laws, we're actually talking about a change of the minister who's resolute to that law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56814	I thank you for the replica of my colleague Zekanovic. Dear colleague Zekanovic in your replica has been said a lot, and you have a little replication of your colleague Branko Hrg, so I ask you to replicate in the following replicas contentally, not to explain political relations on the political scene in the Republic of Croatia. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I wanted to say that my colleague Zekanovic hurt Article 235, but here's in your comment after his presentation you actually summed up what I was about to say, so in that sense I am withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56816	I thank Mr. Glavasevic. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrg, I'm surprised to see you talking about destruction or hyperdestruction of the opposition. So the opposition seeks the cabinet's resignation or resignation when it deems it bad to do its job. In this case, in fact, that from a law that didn't come to the benches though, but it came to the public showing a way of thinking that civilizationally rejuvenates the country, rejuvenates this society because the state wants to determine who the family is. Well, I guess I'll figure out who my family is, and the state won't tell me who my family is. So that's the taste of our request. However, such a request from the opposition is certainly not a destruction. It's a normal functioning and task of opposition. But I'll tell you what destruction is. The destruction is, say, when you and HDZ are destroying your own government. That was a year ago. That's what happened, it's destruction, and the opposition, of course, acts that way. But that HDZ alone with you destroys that government is destruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56818	I thank my dear colleague, Vesni Pusic. Comrade Hrg's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56819	counterpart Pusic, if the minister had not withdrawn the proposal in the pre-processure and had not made it clear and loud that there was indeed a mistake in the definition of the family, that she was deeply apologizing to everyone she had hurt and that it was not stopped without a spot, then I would have had reason to say that it was quite legitimate to ask for the Minister's recall if one of the policies felt that it was an argument that such a character should be called for impeachment. But since the law has been withdrawn from the procedure, since the minister has also apologized, since it is going, it means in passing the law and I really don't see the reason why the impeachment. Why recall? That's what this is about. There's this dilemma that's been bothering me a little bit, because it would be logical if you were after the minister did it, if you'd pulled this request and said ok. We've reached our goal, we've made pressure, the minister has retired in that section, she's apologized, our goal has been achieved, we're going to work on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56820	I thank my colleagues, Hrga. Replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56821	Thank you. Four are the main pillars or how popular it is today to say the point you located and then transferred to us in the debate. So it's a hyperdestruction of the opposition, the problems of the former government, that this was about the minister's mistake, and then you spiced it all up with internal relations in the largest opposition party. So, as far as the former government is concerned, anything you want to know about the former government may be explained to you by former Economy Minister Vrdoljak, former Deputy Prime Minister Cacic and former head of the Office of Prime Minister Sauch. And only if they can't explain that ruling majority to you can you ask us about the former government. As for the hyperdestruction of the opposition, as soon as you said so, I went online and looked for a tent in front of the ministry building and a gas bottle on the Sava. It's not! So it's not a hyperdestruction of the opposition after all. As far as this is concerned, it's a mistake. Well, it's not a mistake. What came out of the counseling could not have been different than the way it came out because the task force was made in such a composition to produce exactly what it produced, and the way that some colleagues today defend those provisions show that it is. So I suggest you rewrite this Family Law and refer it to the procedure as agents, and then we'll discuss the Family Law. Now, as for intra-party relations, look, I think I remember a Assembly of HSS that you also ran for president, where you didn't adopt a report in the first part of the Parliament, and then you still assured the press that it was because these Beljaks were aggressively intimidated, that you would certainly win those elections. And then I have to admit, you reminded me of the one who convinced me as the Americans entered Baghdad that justice would win, but there it was. Here's so much from me for these four pillars, the checkpoint.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56822	I thank my colleague, Bauku. As I asked my colleague, Zekanovic, one large part of your replica was not about the subject, but good. We have Mr. Hrg's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56823	We'll start with the last one. Well, of course, when a man is running to the end somewhere, but in the end, when the results come out, then it's okay to be done, to congratulate whoever you were at the game with, and to wish him a good and safe path. Unfortunately, the road went to you and I went to the other side, or I stayed on the same side. And that's okay. Legally right, everyone, no problems. So I don't see a link to what I was saying or what you just said in this part. And secondly, what you were saying about those points that I highlighted, so I emphasized it, I think it is, I'm willing to defend every thesis I've put out, and I think I'm pretty much right. And I believe that if polls were conducted in Croatian society, as was the reference to marriage, that probably a good part of Croatian citizens would generally be in such attitudes and support something like that. But I hope that I believe that a new bill will come, the Family Law, that we will all participate in it. It would be wonderful if we could make it so that we could bring it in unanimity and that it would be totally agreed that no one in it felt damaged or foreigner in the same law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56824	I thank my colleagues, Hrga. We have on behalf of our proposer, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56825	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. As the government of the Republic of Croatia has known, in a proposal by a group of MPs for not trusting the minister, and in earlier reports, I mentioned 8 inaccuracies, not to use a more difficult word without you looking at me wrong. Let's just say, the minister herself said she wrote that statement. She says in that statement, that she is in term 13. Governments of the Republic of Croatia established a working group to draft a proposal for family law. And that when the task force began, all the actions related to the adoption of the Family Law began. However, she left it to indicate that she had disbanded the task force and had appointed the new one 23.2.2017 in a completely new composition. Even ministry employees were removed and appointed new ones. So, not just outside members. Furthermore, it is apparent that the preparations for the new household law have been very advanced. So I'm curious to know how they advanced it when, before she came for the minister, everything was done more or less. A detailed analysis of the state of foster care carried out in the term of office of Minister Opačić. Plan for the development of foster care for children for the period 2016-2017 adopted in the term of office of Minister Juretic. A task force formed to implement the plan for the development of foster care in the term of office of Minister Juretic. These and draft statements on the impact assessment of the rules for the Household Act were also made in the term of office of Minister Juretic. So what's been waiting for a year? Furthermore, the Law on the Confirmation of the Faculty Protocol on the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The task force, formed in the term of office of ministers3e Juretic, drafted a draft bill. Another 3.10.6. is the draft version of the draft in public consultation. In the term of office of Minister Murganic, the procedure was initiated. So, only with a national strategy for equating the possibility of people with disabilities, it came from Minister Opačić and Juretic. A national strategy for children's rights by 2020, and it is apparent on page 4 that it was created in the term of Minister Murganic, was adopted no less than 17.9.2014, therefore, for the term of office of Minister Opačić. Furthermore, the process of deinstitutionalisation and transformation is also said to be at a high stage, and it is known that by the time it arrived, it is said, 2 individual plans were adopted, and not true, 3 were adopted. Furthermore, applications have been completed to prepare a project for EU funds for these 3 institutions. Further in the previous term, all data have been collected from the completed analysis for 4 additional institutions, but nothing has been done in the past year. Within the European Social Fund, as it is said, preparations for the tender for the development of services, personal assistance for people with the most difficult forms of disability was prepared in the term of Minister Juretic, and the competition was held on 23 November 2016. until the minister took office on 19.10. It is also said that in the term of office of Minister Murganic, a call was made for the application of projects to support the process of deinstitutionalisation and prevention of the institutionalisation of children and young people. Exactly the call was made on 20.3.2017, but from the government's obvious to date, there is not one single agreed project I read until the date it was signed with an indication. So why wait seven months? So that's 8 elements in the government's manifestion that are incorrect. And if the government so communicates with Parliament, I don't know why, what it does, so the government has existed before. You shouldn't be giggling on other people's feathers. And Croatia hasn't started since the day before yesterday. It hasn't started since five years ago, but it hasn't started since '91. We live longer. Both good things and good and correct should be recognized and inherited. In that sense, such communication with Parliament is an additional 7 reasons for the replacement of Minister Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56826	I thank Mr. Goran Bess Richembergh. The first replica, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56827	Dear colleague, we have now heard 7 or 8 reasons, which are enough for you to replace the minister, and in fact there is only one reason that are worth it again. Here at first I have to say what you mentioned, and you only mentioned part of it, and in fact the whole evening stretches through the debate that the bill was drawn up by some groups that weren't competent to assemble. I will repeat, of the ten family law professors from the Faculty of Legal Affairs in Croatia seven of them participated in the drafting of this document, it means 70% and several regular professors, several percent, and don't ignore it. But here I'll dare say here, the most controversial definition of family, she raised the most I'll say... media attention, later she went and the hack after that, the law would be just as good that she didn't have it. However, I would still repeat that a little bit more with the profession pass whether the definition should stand whether it should not stand, whether it is bad but good. But here's how the public hears what it's about if anyone else is watching at midnight and something we're talking about. "The family are the mother, father and children, mother with child or father with child, even though they do not live together and other relatives who live with them." The voice said that it's back-and-back and troublesome. I don't see anything backward or problematic in this because I assume that all of you here and Mrs. Dark live in this family exactly as you say here, Mr. Richembergh. The concepts of marriage and family are not synonyms, international documents, and there is also the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that distinguishes marriage and family, or the right to marriage and the right to start a family. That's two things different. General Declaration of Human Rights and '48. It distinguishes marriage and family establishment, then an international pact on civil and political rights from '76. years also vary the same, etc., etc. There's a few more papers I'd like to read. I won't be long, but I'd just use one little thing anyway, since I got up at four o'clock, I'm gonna go lie down. I'm giving up the debate, and I warmly welcome you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56828	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56829	I did not speak at all about what you are talking about, so I did not state at all eight reasons for the replacement of Minister Murganić but I said there were seven of them, and I made eight mistakes and incorrect claims in the government's statement. Well, I don't know if it's the same for you now, so it's really late and it's really time for you to go to bed. Secondly, as far as family definition is concerned, what's back-to-back? So let's just say that this definition doesn't involve single-parent families at all, and that's a shame that cries out to the sky. If that weren't the case, the minister wouldn't apologize to those she insulted in that way, that's the point. Read a little of what you wrote. And she's poor, she let you write what you think, she's a good minister as far as your interests are concerned, but she's not a good minister of general interest because she let that proposal be formulated by people who go to very conservative solutions. If you don't understand what this is all about, please just look at what the parent communities said about it, the fostering associations, those who are asking for this definition to be dropped, that it shouldn't be in law because it's nowhere in the law. No one has had that kind of ambition to define family by law anymore because the family as a concept and content in the last 100 years has suffered a tremendously large rooted change. Today in the 21st century, giving the state the opportunity to intervene in such a way as to prescribe people living together for 50 years whether or not they're family or not, and in that sense you don't even understand what you're saying about what you wrote in the People's Republic that family and marriage are not the same thing. Well, of course it's not the same thing, but you're starting from being and that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56830	I thank my colleague Richembergh for his reply. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic. I hope you don't abuse that institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56831	Well, just one incorrect quote, I'll just use this to say it. So a parent with a child is covered by the definition of you wrongly said, a mother with a child or a father with a child. So you didn't read it, so you're talking about something you didn't read.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56832	Thank you, Mr. Zekanovici. It's like I knew you'd abuse the Rules of Procedure, but good. It's small hours, so we forgive. We're moving on to the next line. Next, a respected counterpart, Petar Skoric, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56833	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Richembergh. Here you have, through your testimony and through your performance, practically exposed the inexcusability of the motion to recall Minister Murganic. You mentioned here who was preparing what, in what way, calling for the previous minister again during the HDZ government. We haven't seen your government prepare anything, your motion to vote for mistrust is based on false information. You're actually sorry to say but completely uninformed. However, we also know where you got this fake information because by citing projects that are mentioned here, it's visible who prepared you, that she prepared a person who was basically your former assistant who was just in charge of European funds. It's based on these false data that you've been led astray. It should be pointed out that the person who did this job in charge of European funds has not prepared a single project, and it has also been similar with competitions for people with disabilities who are not prepared but not prepared. Ms Ljubila Lukačić has confirmed here through her amendments, Minister Murganic achieved these projects in just eight days and withdrew 116 million kuna from these funds, covering 1239 persons and 867 assistants. Not to mention supporting social inclusion and employment of marginal groups where they ran for a total of 426 million kuna. And instead of commending you, you're asking for impeachment. It also states in your explanation that the funds should be spent by 2020, not in 2023, which is true. Therefore, you did not make a request based on actual data at all. Also related to your finding that Croatia did not start in '91. A year. It's true, it didn't start in '91. than in 1990 and before that was Yugoslavia. Earlier, Croatia suffered, and just today 69 years ago, a man was killed because of the Croatian flag.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56834	Thank you, colleague Skoric, for the replica. And my colleague Richembergh's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56835	So if you want to track down who's guilty of something, I'm guessing this Minister Juretic's shift story is also involved in that saga. Did you possibly initiate any proceedings against her or some kind of impellation in the House since she didn't do what she needed to do? I don't know. But as I recall, you would have those who don't think like you, shot, right? So tomorrow, will the ministry workers kneel until they confess to who was saying what or will you punish those who say that the ministry is not doing well? I don't believe it, I don't believe it. People who are so threatening and who talk so much in this way are actually benign. Well, then everyone who thinks you're a very dangerous man, I think they're wrong. I would still allow you to speak even if you were saying what you said today that if nothing else could make a difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56836	I thank my colleague Richembergh for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Beus, in fact, in the first part of your last exposure, you mentioned that working group unhappy. So maybe I wasn't clear enough in the debate, either, but I actually agree with you. So that they were sitting in that task force, I don't know Barack Obama, Ivica Racan, or whatever you think they were, but some icons, let's say, intellectual lefts, and they came out with a bill like this. That bill would be just as scandalous as this one was. So the working group that made such a proposal, I just agree with my colleague Bauk when he said she couldn't do anything else in that sense, so you can't do anything new from people who are already maximum, I hope that the maximum of their intellectual capacity, scientific experience, and everything else they've given to produce just such a bill. In that sense, one disbanding group action and appointing a new, different working group would actually be expected. So that's kind of the point of what we were saying. And in that sense, here I hope that the next bill of law yes, I think I hope that in fact somewhere in the perspective if you get the trust of the Croatian Parliament that you will consider this measure as something that would be a good first step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56838	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. Here you go, pal Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56839	My colleague Glavasevic, I don't know what's worse, if the minister had no idea what they were going to write in that law because it would mean that the task force of the ministry didn't give any project assignment or anything else if she knew what they were going to write because she gave them the project assignment, so we got what we got. So in both cases she has to leave. There are no third cases. At least I don't see him. So, given that she's reported to us now for five minutes, let her tell us if she knew what she was going to write in that law or if she didn't know. It's very simple to say. So I hope that there is no longer one single minister sitting in this government who orders or lets a law be made in the ministry that is not in the government's programme first and another for which he will not know what he will write inside at least as far as the basics are concerned. What's the point of passing the law anyway? If the aim of the law is to simplify, the re-turbation of certain elements of that law to make it more understandable then it is done by amendments and additions. But they made, watch out, the HDZ government forms a working group and then they come and then they break up because it's not enough for them, it's not close enough for them, it's not enough for them right because Minister Juretic wasn't righteous enough. I guess she wasn't, so I guess that's why she wasn't in the new government, she wasn't on that line enough. And then clean up all of hers. And she, I'm sure, didn't implement any ideological concepts, any other concepts, but the HDZ government. And which governments? You know what the government is to you? That's the government Prime Minister Plenkovic used to say when he was a euro representative of arms and legs that he should survive. He was the one who spoke don't tear down our government but then the Horg comes and knocks it down. What do we do now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56840	I thank Mr. Richembergh. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56841	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Richembergh, so in these five minutes you tried to tell a few, in fact almost all the untruths about the government's opinion on this trust, expressing confidence to Minister Murganic. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth that you are talking about is a very complex ministry and the Ministry would say from birth to death, from homes for carefree and abandoned children to old and powerless, and not to mention children with special needs of persons with disabilities and all that the ministry does. So a very complex ministry. You've caught up with a few things and I'm going to tell you two about the weather, and I can talk about the others in my debate on behalf of the club. So the Household Act was passed in 2011 and then certain implementing acts were to be adopted during Milanovic's Government and this was missed even though there was a law-making plan for 2014 at the time. The team of formations that you have and with which you are at your disposal is probably letting you go by your deputy GLAS, the president who was the assistant minister at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and who, by the way, also had an adoption association and normally she was in a hurry about it, that's her job, clearly, it's her legitimate right and she's fighting for it. As for deinstitutionalisation, be very careful what you say, during the government of Zoran Milanovic and Ms. Milanka Opačić, a very controversial agreement with the Open Society and the Soros Association for Inclusion has been signed. Some associations favored by the minister at the time and this ministry only charged 2 million kuna in one year for deinstitutionalisation of users, I repeat 2 million kuna and that is why some people are not assigned to deinstitutionalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56842	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. Come in, Mr. Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56843	I'd rather not suit you because I respect the fact that it's not easy for you. You were the right hand of Minister Juretic, and it is not easy for you to listen to what they say today about your ministry in your term of office. And yet you have to be superstitious, you have to say what you're going to agree with what's being presented today as the new official truth. So I'm saying, it's not easy for you, but it won't be easy for you to vote. You, as State Secretary of the Ministry, were responsible for a whole series of initiatives launched and which should not have stopped or returned. I don't see any reason. That's why it's not easy for you, but you're much better than me and anyone else in this room and even from the minister you know well that everything I've been saying is actually true and that it's not correct because it could have been better, it could have been faster. You don't need to invent hot water, you need to jump into a horse's saddle that's already chasing and not kill it to get someone new. So it's been a year, a year, just the formation of the ministry. And now it's our fault because we see it and we show it. Why? Because I don't want the ministries working that way. We want a functional, good ministry in which people will continuously produce new ideas and not destroy what is behind them, but repair it. And to do so, there would be no loss of time or in the compensation of what was missed in the preparation for European funds and neither in the creation of such documents as one of them is apostrophe and this is a controversial draft of the law. But do you know how controversial he is when he, as a draft proposal, caused such a storm in public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56844	I would like to thank my colleague Richemberg for his reply to the replica. In the name of the government of the Republic of Croatia, Ms. Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56845	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's what I'd like to do is just briefly look back at some couple and I wouldn't say some more difficult words right now, but I'll explain maybe some misunderstandings. Agent Richembergh, I will not enter and express anyone, but you do not need to be afraid, no one will kneel on the rails or I will cast out who said anything. We are a transparent society, in addition to all that is related to the documentation and for the work of the ministry is also publicly published. So there's no reason for the two of us to argue about different documents or I'm an orphan, so I'm the poor orphan that had to do exactly as my client told me. You see the law yourself from this debate, although it is not the subject of the debate that should be measured by things or articles in the law, but it certainly will not bring us a proposal of such a law that you will all be delighted together. But just withdrawing from the e-consultation, doing it itself, just that I really want to have an open public debate is probably every well-intentioned evidence that we will strive to make a family law that in most citizens will still be satisfied. Taking care of what is the meaning of this law, it is a family-law protection of children and all these ideological challenges will certainly be reduced. I said that if you listened at first and I spoke to the MPs, Mrak-Taritash, that I did not think that the life and work in the ministry had begun on my arrival, it would also not end with me leaving. I've only potentiated the facts that were passed during my term of office. As far as the structure is concerned, we've changed the structure, worked because we have new assignments in the ministry, so you don't have to be worried, parallel to the structure were obligations. What I'd like to say is, we're moving around the task force. The task force during Minister Juretic's professional work was therefore more or less the academic community and part of the expert social workers was her choice. They also worked harder and showed the impact assessment of the new law and the thesis for the draft draft new law that we said was at a public debate, I took over that task force and I complemented it. So that's what I did and it's publicly published. European funds and the Family Law, you say it was all over during Minister Opačić's time, but it was not passed. He wasn't brought in, and she probably had a reason for it, and I'm not getting into it. We're going to suggest him as we think he'll be adequate on that, and that's what we're doing. The second in terms of European funds. I wouldn't want to name anyone by name, but really, it wasn't prepared for this big competition, so zero. No project has been agreed in the previous term.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56846	I thank the respected minister, Mrs. Nadi Murganic. We have a replica. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I agree that the law is not the only topic of tonight's debate tonight. However, since only partially in this debate you have now referred to that comment of mine. So I don't know if we can expect something different then. Because you said it yourself, you've complemented the old task force. But such an updated task force came up with a proposal like this. I think I understand that it's really both eloquent and likely and annoying insistence on it. But it's just a bit pertinent for what we talked about. So I'm standing, and I'm sure I'm not the only one with the thesis that this working group complemented has come up with that kind of proposal that's been withdrawn. So, can we expect to change the working group in perspective or can we expect that the same people in a different way will be expected to come up with a different proposal. In that case, I think we'll ask a question why they didn't immediately come up with a proposal like that. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56848	I thank Mr. Glavasevic for this replica. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56849	Thank you. And I'm gonna give up the debate for the sake of time, but I didn't get an answer before. So here is the end of this debate, and I hope that the Prime Minister and Minister Murganic will agree when we finally get a report on the consultation under the Istanbul Convention and when the Istanbul Convention that will significantly improve protection against domestic violence will finally be in the Croatian Parliament for adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56850	I thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. We move to debate on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Representatives Club, respected colleague Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. The SDP club will support an initiative to vote for mistrust, Minister Nadi Murganic. Mrs. Murganic received in this Croatian Parliament the confidence of the majority to lead this portfolio and she is completely right to object, the opposition that at the time when she estimates that things in a particular portfolio are not going in the direction in which they should go, regardless of how they have been determined whether or not they voted for the minister has the right to see whether the minister or minister still has the support in the Croatian Parliament so much that in fact the ruling structure has changed a little bit and there are certain among other things and differences in the world's perceptions of the coalition partners who form the ruling majority, and also one of the issues, and one of the reasons why it is sought to show mistrust to the minister is unfortunately motivated by secular and ideological issues. It's not the first time, it's not the first resort, it's not the first theme, but unfortunately we're where we are. What's kind of surprising to me is that we still heard from the minister during this debate one of the reasons why her ministry decided to amend the Family Law so much that the existing law currently in force for some two years shows some good results. That's not what I'm saying. That's what people who are more professional in that area say than I am. There has been an observation here that we are a destructive opposition and that we destabilise the government's demands for impeachment, namely by voting non-trust to certain ministers. Well, we're not the ones who wrote the new Family Law and we're not the ones who made the scandal. If you hadn't produced a scandal, we wouldn't be talking about this today, we wouldn't be talking about this today. You'd be doing your job any further without anyone asking you anything. It's our position at the SDP club that the argument that the law made a mistake absolutely doesn't hold water. This is a law that is real under full consciousness and where, among other things, the task force signed by Minister Murganic has named herself under her trust, I am convinced of full consciousness. Let's go to the task force. Why do we have a task force first? Because we're going to see why the product is the way it is and that it has dominated the Family Law, which has passed the Family Law, why it has become a scandal and why the prime minister had to put it out and pull it out. And what's most tragic, and I'm convinced that if there wasn't such a noise in the public, that kind of public pressure would persist in it. So, I think Minister Murganic, under her full consciousness, wanted to push through this controversial Family Law by referring to this law in public debate. Fortunately, she failed, but only because of strong public pressure. We in the SDP agree with that part of clarity that was screaming against this law, because we believe that the state has no right to say, no children, no family. We feel that the state has no right to say, that is, to discriminate against children in the marriage and out-of-marriage community. We feel that the state has no right to say that a single mother or a single father is not a family. We feel that the state has no right to say that foster parents and their children are not family. We don't think the state has the right to say that grandparents, who raise grandkids, because parents may have died or gone, have no right to say that these people are not family. We also consider it against the state to say, let's just say that same-sex couples with children are not family or I don't know, a mother who has a child, whose father died or for some other reason, a single-parent family, I already said, has no right to say that it's not a family. And this law is right now, it's one of the segments that this law said. Not to mention further, it means that in this law, the rights are also reduced, they wanted to reduce the rights of extramarital communities, they wanted to make it difficult for adoptions that are anyway, to extramarital communities, which are already in the Republic of Croatia and married couples, and our homes for carefree children are full, unfortunately children who do not have their families. Home is their only family. And their home is family, regardless of what this definition does not say and that it is not some official or unofficial definition of family. This law has likewise led women victims of domestic violence to a very awkward situation where more than in the previous law insists that they go to mediation with a bully. Yes, it is and against it have many associations rebelled. So, the fact that they're victims of domestic violence, we know how long the judicial process takes, the state has these laws forced them to deal with this tortured mediation facing a bully who hasn't yet been convicted, so you've defined it, that they have to deal with it, ask God for how long. These are the reasons why we feel that this law can no longer be repeated. Now, my question is, why are we asking for a vote of no confidence, and why we insist on it, no matter how you apologized and admitted that you were wrong. Because I'm sure you haven't replaced the members of the task force. If the transfer was possible at one session of the Croatian government, tell the secretary to prepare all the papers, to resolve all the Bridge ministers in a second, which is the problem, that you are right away, that when you were planted and when the error occurred you immediately replaced the members of the task force. You can't, why? Because members of the task force have passed the entire law. This is where the gentleman said, he's gone, Mr. HRAST seven university professors, a doctor of science, an expert in Family Law. That's right. But they're not just that. I don't dispute, I don't get into their expertise, but let's do a little bit of what they do with their jobs, see if they have some unknowns or who they tie them to, which were crucial to this outcome of the law. Come on, the group led by Mrs Stanic, your representative, the key person I assume she controlled the process on your behalf, so at least that should be it. Mrs. Hrabar, we don't have to say anything about her, the former Dean of Law School, however, Mrs. Hrabar, is with Don Stojic on the board of the Centre for Cultural Reconstruction. Remember this association, the Cultural Reconstruction Center. You'll see how dominant he really is in the work group. Professors Dr. Korač Gravovac and Chulo Margaletić, by chance, were lecturers at a conference, I don't know, now exactly the name but in which 2015 it was large, organised by Mrs. Željka Markić. Professor Dr. Simovic nominated him as the Centre for Cultural Reconstruction. Otherwise, the Centre for Cultural Reconstruction, which is mentioned here, often, when we talk about these 4 out of 7 doctors of science, who were in this group, the dominant as experts of the Centre for the Reconstruction of Culture is registered at the same address where the Association of Vigilara, you know the Association of Vigilara, which organises protests against the Istanbul Convention. In the broader composition of the working group, Mr Krešimir Planinić, lawyer, president of the Association On behalf of the family and lawyer Hrvoje Jukić, representative of the Association for Equal Parenting, on the official pages and association was an official announcement that he would co-ordinate his views on the Family Law platform with the association On behalf of the family. Otherwise, Mr. lawyer Hrvoje Jukić strongly advocated, i.e. his association abolishing the Ombudsman for children, you remember, meaning that it should be only one roof, it's a public defender, so that after a month he can run for counsel for children when you pass a law that will get rid of Ivana Milos Clariss who has not answered you. Well, now, we insist and insist on seeing how most of us breathe. Because we believe that this government, in its programme, is key parties, which is HDZ in that segment where it based its campaign, which is the most intelligent policy and family, never, but never, no matter how much I disagreed with even some parts of that programme, has never advocated such ultra-conservative and such retrograde attitudes. This must be the product of something else. Or the reason here is that we need to talk to some MPs again, in order to maintain such an air-conditioned majority, and then don't call on us to destabilise the government with impeachments and demands for discussions on the work of certain ministers, because most of them are unstable not depending on the SDP but depends here on some of the individual handles that question and normal family law that can be conservative. You can change it if you want to improve it, but don't do this to this country. Well, then he's giving up his health, we've got citizen announcements, so Mr. Ilcic may be a cultural minister's advisor, I've gone a long way I don't want to go wide, I just want to say stop while it's time. I don't think we should change this family law, but you are the majority, you have taken responsibility for Croatia you have the full right to change family law. But if you're already changing it and you want to do good to this country with this Family Law, the first thing you need to do to show your good intentions is to resolve the task force that put you in trouble and that put us all in a position to be here at midnight, what time it is I don't see twenty to one anymore, we're discussing this, we're pulling out some arguments, and please, in the arguments alone, let's not appeal to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. When Ivana Milas Klaric was being replaced here, it went from, you were defending the law here, you and I had been discussing it for about this many hours, then you were talking the same way now, the Constitutional Court made a decision blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. The Constitutional Court did not, either in the case of the Law on the Ombudsman for children, enter into the contents of any single article or bring a single word of those two laws to the contrary or in doubt that it did not comply with the Constitution. That argument just doesn't hold water here. Tell us why you are changing the Family Law, why you wanted to change it and why you let certain pressures or pressures of certain stakeholders that are under the law before we made good money on other people's sad fates pressure you or that group because you have to return certain services or certain groups have to go back or it is either the pressure of the ultra-conservative right that you have, I simply can't believe, and it gives me the right and Mr Plenkovic who pulled this law, I can't believe that this much would go to HDZ who, regardless of some perhaps infamous moments in the past, is trying to be, or to portray as a modern democratic party in which I wish you full happiness, and I think that this is good for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56852	I thank my colleague Sabina the Voice. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56853	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Voter, somehow if I narrow down your debate I think one of the central concepts in it and not only in yours but also in many of the debates that were being held here tonight was the concept of a worldview. So I think it's very important and what in some way bothers our voters and the ones we're discussing here is that this ultraconservative worldview that went to and this bill and some other things we've seen, it wasn't transparent. So it was not the thing that Croatian citizens could choose, and where they could choose it where it was transparent, as it was in the 9th constituency, we saw how the results of the election went as the citizens valorised it. In the distribution of some value, most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are worth entering some left or right mainstream so closer to the centre, either on the one hand or on the other. After all, the notion of the mainstream is something the prime minister has repeatedly advocated. And that intransparency in entering these ultraconservative ideas and over of course very clearly which people are what's quite a problem. Therefore, such things must be transparent and not only that but they must be chosen, they must be given legitimacy in order to participate and to be represented in legislative processes they must obtain that legitimacy in the elections. When someone above average and dramatically above average represents such ultraconservative ideas that have not received legitimacy in the elections, then we have a problem, then these bill proposals happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56854	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56855	My colleague Glavasevic, you're absolutely right. It is legitimate that there are different political parties that advocate different programs and even world-rents that they have their own consummations or electoral body and none of that, God forbid, I wouldn't forbid, I wouldn't shut up. People have the right in this free country to advocate attitudes that they have until they insult others, while respecting the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, etc. However, it is unacceptable that what you said is that someone who does not have the legitimacy to lead the state in this capacity with some kind of underground machinations, negotiations, agreements has such a strong influence on official government policy, and that is what is scary to me right now, and that is probably one of the reasons why the government is falling, as I would say, losing confidence in the voters. Because if you are going to market with a single programme, I believe that a good part of the HDZ voter also does not look favorably at some things that happen and some processes because they did not vote. But I don't want to get into the structure of those voters right now, but that's kind of my opinion here. I was free to express myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56856	I thank my colleague Voter for his reply. The next replica of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56857	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, a colleague of the Voice just before in the replica, so again in the presentation, you said you didn't know why the Family Law was supposed to be rewritten. However, precisely in the government's statement, it is clearly early already, says that the law is unreadable, unreadable, confusing, in some situations illogical, unspeakable, unspeakable, normatively preobsessed, that there are legal gaps and contradictions, that many units should be changed as well as that many institutes are difficult to understand, and that they are causing problems in practice which creates legal uncertainty and harms citizens, that some quality in a nomotechnical sense is difficult to understand and therefore difficult to correct, etc. For all these reasons, the working group was of the opinion that it would be in the best interest of the citizens to initiate the process of adopting the new Family Law. You also said that no impact assessment of the rules has been made, and here it says that the draft statement on the assessment of the impact of the regulations and the thesis for the Family Law draft has been carried out even public consultation and nothing less than 60 days. You'll agree that this is really one of the initiations of this procedure illogically and needlessly because there is hardly a minister in any government that did not have any article in some or more articles of some law that caused a storm in the public and which could also end in this way as it came out, which we came up with with this Family Law. And this government headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic, and especially our minister Murganic, who in her domain has done very much for a year to remember means increasing financial support to parents, subsidising 50% of the war on housing loans, all that has been done for pensioners. Then further, numerous national strategies have been developed against the protection of domestic violence aimed at building a society with a zero tolerance rate, etc. She really didn't deserve something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56858	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Jurichev-Martinchev. Answer from my colleague, Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56859	Mrs. Martinchev, don't take it personally now. I mean, it's not easy for us here either when we have to discuss individual ministers. Well, it's not easy because there's still some things a man doesn't take personally, let's start by ourselves, and actually sometimes what we do shouldn't be taken personally. This has nothing to do with Mrs. Murganic's person who I think is one valuable person, I think he's doing a lot of work at the ministry, coming from the system, but just here there's been a failure, a huge one. And it's not a mistake and that's what we're talking about here. As far as the regulation's impact assessment is concerned, you're right, I was wrong, I didn't get good information. After I checked it out, it was carried out. However, no matter what happens to me after what you've read to me, I'll dare say why the previous law didn't work out. I still didn't get what I said here. Three solid but solid arguments, three key holes in the law that have proved to be bad in the existing and how you will change them for the better. Not these 100 pausal grades, nomotechnically poorly arranged, messy, like this, like this. Look, you know what laws are, I know what laws are, lawyers know what laws are. So that argument I'm still saying I don't have something good, solid to catch up on, and that's why I have the right to doubt that pressures or a group that made good money before we changed the law wants to do it again. Or other ultraconservatives that did what she did by going from definition to further that she wants to change some much, much more significant values in society, which we think is inadmissible again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56860	I thank my colleague Voter for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56861	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I have a need to react only when the facts are reversed. I don't think there's any need to twist facts, and you mentioned domestic violence. Well, I'll say I already said that in one of the previous lines. So, in the fight against domestic violence, this government and the resolution ministry have so far done more than the previous. Here's the facts. One well-known human rights activist and fighting violence against women and comes from one of the most famous women's rights organizations. Recently, on one television, she stated the following on the subject of domestic violence. I quote: “Mrs. Opačić had no hearing or meeting with us in four years. Former Minister Opacic claimed what is nonsensical, that despite the abuse, women will remain in their properties without the need to move away from the bully. If I have anything more to comment on this statement by the lady that I repeat belongs to one, and I'm not going to name one of the most famous women's rights organizations, and she's a longtime president. It is considered a veteran struggle for women's rights and to suppress domestic violence and violence against women.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56862	I thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Answer, colleague Voter, do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56863	Mrs. Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, when I spoke of violence and this law strictly adhered to what Mrs. Tolle had warned, that this law, which has never brought about a woman's victims of violence, is returning to the situation, or is putting the bully in a position to pass the mediation procedure, which is stressful for them and, in some ways, indirectly committed, I may now be too harsh, but additional violence. That's the first thing. Secondly, I didn't discuss here the position of the government towards the victims of violence, it's better not to drag me by my tongue, not to mention some mayors, not to mention the fact that nothing with the Istanbul Convention, that the former minister of social policy has said something to die, etc., etc. There's really no need to spread the story now, so let's stick to this bill, and the wife of the victim of domestic violence would put herself in a more unfavourable position anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56864	I thank my colleague Voter for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56865	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Glasovac, you are about the Family Law on behalf of the SDP Club to speak quite superficially. Family law is much, much more content for us here to talk about certain segments that can change. Of course, it also contributes to e-consultation where, in fact, during that time period, certain comments and proposals can be made, as well as proposals from practice. What you said in one part, you said that foster homes are full, full of children. So because of the truth and the public should say that this is not the case, you adopt about a hundred children annually and about 350 to 380 of them are not adopted. And the reason you don't adopt these children is because it's 60% and more of your children with developmental difficulties. And that's one reason not to adopt. On the other hand, your children are adopted by the age of 3, and those children are very little waiting for you to adopt. This is about children over the age of 10 and over, who usually stay in their homes. So much for the reputation of adopting children that this is going hard and how social care centres or the ministry is holding back the adoption of those children. So it's good to talk about that truth. You and your colleague Bauk, so he can tell you, so the Constitutional Court asked for changes or additions from the Family Law government, then did not enter into a measure or adoption of a new Family Law. Because of everything and what Mrs. Juricev told you, the government decided to go into the new Family Law, making a new family law. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56866	I thank my colleague Babic in response. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56867	And the motion of the Constitutional Court, I think that the Constitutional Court never actually made a decision, he suspended the law from 2014, which put into effect the one in 2003, and in the meantime suspended it until its decision of the Constitutional Court, and since it did not make it and, in the meantime, the government made a very fast procedure similar in 2015, a new one was made, took effect, replaced the one from 2003 and the Constitutional Court as far as I know, decided not to, just suspended the existing decision that it had never made, it was first. Secondly, when I was talking about adoption, I said that the proposal of the Family Law was the one that was happily withdrawn, in many ways with regard to the existing standings, made it difficult for the adoption of children to persons who are not married and persons who are not married, and that is Article 164, I quote, which was very exceptional, so only an exceptional child can adopt extramarital friends and persons who are not married or an extramarital community if there are particularly justified reasons on the part of the child. They've kind of applied the criteria to those of what time, not criteria, but now we've put everything in an extraordinary situation all the things that aren't marriage communities, and I've talked about it and I've talked about thinking it's bad. That's my attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56868	I thank my colleague Voter for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56869	Dear colleague Glasovac, I must say that I agree with you that Minister Murganic is not at least the ideal candidate for the minister and here are my reasons. One of them, which today in history textbooks teaches children that Ivo Sanader fought corruption, which actually goes hand in hand to HDZ and actually manipulates children in the bottom of the most brutal and insidious way. The second reason is that they are not taught about the origin of money, the process of creating money, which is the role of the Central Bank, why there is a credit crisis in the country, a lack of money, etc. So what's fundamentally important is knowledge simply lags out of the educational program. The third thing, they are not taught what is the role of the media, which is maintained by the ruling class, that they actually govern people like sheep, means by taking away critical thinking and instructing them to actually blindly obey the team, let's tell some new masters of worlds or implementers of the new world order, which is essentially hostile to every kind of family, regardless of how they define them and who did them. I think your initiative is positive and if it were just for conscience and shame, I don't think the minister would have us, here she is now almost 1 a.m. in these tiny hours, she would've just resigned and spared us this torment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56870	I thank Mr. Pernar for this replica. Comrade Pernar, you obviously slept through one part of this day because we are not discussing the Ministry of Education here, we are discussing the Ministry of Demography, Family and Youth and Social Policy. The competent minister is not in charge of textbooks, she is not in charge of the education system, so here I would invite you to these small hours while waiting for your debate to take a look at the structure of the state administration. Does a colleague of the Voice have a need for replication to form a state administration? There isn't. Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56871	Here it is almost midnight in London time, popular in London time to speak. Yes, we have colleagues votes today is a zero reading of the Family Law on Friday we will have a third reading of Lex Agrokor so we have a burning and quite dynamic legislative activity. I'm also withdrawing my argument, I won't go any further which I didn't report, but I could have ended up on behalf of the club. So when the law came to the public on the Internet and then that day I guess it was the government and the minister came to the government's session then the press came to her as she was going to be in front of the government and she really went a little bit to defend the law. So she said here, for example, and other legal institutes and other laws have a definition of family, this is really for easier application of the family legal institute defined. This is the first day of consulting the law will be a month of public consultation, will be in two readings, opinions will be crystallized. And she said that what's not good is the fact that we didn't read the whole law, but we stayed on Article 1. Unfortunately, any good law will be in the shadows because we'll come down to the ideological differences here and we really don't. Okay, it's not exactly that. It was a day. And then I guess this came out in public, a little bit harder then the law had to pass by blaming the task force, and probably people did what they were expected to do, then the coalition partners got a little critical, and then it calmed down a little, and then the GLAS colleagues encouraged this initiative. So I think we've said a lot, that it's both the minister and the prime minister and the ruling are aware of how sensitive the family law is that there's not much room to complicate too much and that it can slip on any little larger obstacle. And I suggest to the minister that since tomorrow's work day is to let one part of your associates go home so that they can normally come to work tomorrow, that they don't have to, that they won't go alone, they'll show that they support you, but you say they're free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56872	I'd like to thank my colleague Bauk for the replica. Answer from my colleague, Voter. No, I don't. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. I suggest you listen to the song by Drazen Rabbit, "Is there any hope for us?" We'll continue at 01.15. Thank you very much. It's 1:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 01.15 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Ante Babic, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of GLAS, HSU, Mrs Vesna Pusic, she is gone, losing her right to debate. ... Where is he? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll wait for Mrs. Vesna Pusic, then we'll give the word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Since Mrs Vesna Pusic was not at the plenary session, she was upstairs on the terrace, as Mr Babic was on the side, Mr Babic on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives. Here you go. And you were late, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56874	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Here's a thank you for your tolerance, even though I was at the door, but you came two minutes before, but good. Here, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, at this late hour I do not want to repeat myself from everything that colleagues here have said today, a related proposal to launch the trust of Minister Nadi Murganic, but here, just to remain recorded, I will say that the GLAS Party and 33 MPs have used their right under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, she asked for a proposal to launch trust with Minister Nadi Murganic, and they explained their proposal in 3 points concerning the public debate on Family Law and a series of problematic formulations, then, according to several cases of sexual abuse committed by children from 10-14 years of age and small penalties received by perpetrators of these crimes. As well as a number of unresolved problems, which the ministry has not dealt with adequately, and have listed the Law on fostering, regional development funds, FEAT, this is an EU fund, for the most needed and targeted children from the risk of poverty. In a series of formulations set out in the opposition proposal, I won't talk about it, because that's a lot to talk about today. But the government is in its obvious 13.10.2017... all state opposition to the launch of trust to Ms. Nadi Murganic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All the MPs got them, and I won't repeat them, and as a club, we absolutely agree with those allegations. Because of maybe a memory from before and everything that's been marked by the Family Law, I'm just going to list 2, 3 things that are important to me and that we can discuss and discuss. So, the Family Law of 2014 The Constitutional Court suspended in January 2015 and then passed that law which had actually started to apply since 1.9.2014. Then the court suspended the law again and then remained in force of the law, the Family Law of 2003. Now, after that happened those things we talked about in the Croatian Parliament, then at the speed of light, in fact, the second Family Law was passed in just about 6 or 10 working days. The law that had 306 pages. and some 563 articles were produced in those 10 days. What I'm trying to say, and maybe it didn't say tonight, which is, as far as family law is concerned, I remember with the first working group, we were talking about not being allowed in any way because of 4.5 million people in the Republic of Croatia, that the Family Law should be politically colored in any way. So we were aware of the complexity of this law and of all the problems that stemmed from the Family Law first in the protection of children, so both the working group and one and the other working group made sure that it was not in any way politically colored because it represents, in fact, 4.5 million citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I also said that in the replica, I can briefly repeat what the Constitutional Court is asking the Government to do, therefore, to amend and supplement the new Family Law, i.e., the adoption of a new Family Law and the Government decided to pass a new Family Law, for the sake of the benefit of citizens and quality regulation of family law. These were actually the reasons that put the government in a position to pass a new Family Law, i.e. a proposal to pass a new Family Law. I would like to further point out, therefore, that the working group has also been led by these international conventions, which was in fact controversial in the proposal for opposition, and I will repeat them in this European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which says that education and education of the child should be directed towards the development and respect of children's parents, its cultural identity, the language of value, the national values of the country in which they live. So, as signatories to these conventions, they are binding for us. The opposition proposal also states that there are a whole series of unresolved problems in the ministry's portfolio that the current minister does not address in a satisfactory manner and is referring to the Household Act. I said the first one was adopted in 2011, not a single implementing act. The plan of normative activities was to be adopted in 2014 which the then government had actually failed to do. The situation that arose continued to be resolved in a way that immediately formed the task force. I think it was a good way and there was a good way and that working group that actually contained everything I said in advance shouldn't have woken up with any left or right options any doubt that such a law wouldn't have been made in the best possible way. As for the deinstitutionalization itself, I have said little to Mr. Richembergh, but also to my colleague, Glasovac. So I was very careful when I was in the ministry about this deinstitutionalization. This is one procedure that far stronger and more developed countries than the Republic of Croatia do not ignore in this way but are very careful because it is the people who come from specialised institutions in the family and need twenty-four-way care. That's pretty dangerous. While I was in the ministry, I received dozens, dozens of letters where these people came into the middle where it wasn't negotiated with local self-government units, but not with families who were in their environment, and you have to know that it's about people with disabilities and mental disorders that need twenty-four-way control. Furthermore, signatories talk about insufficient withdrawal of funds from European funds. As far as I know, the ministry was in charge of three operational programmes, and through those three operational programmes, in fact, those funds have been withdrawn neatly in the ministry, perhaps not with the intensity we wanted at the time, but I think Minister Murganic and her team has accelerated quite a bit. As far as FEAD's EU Fund is concerned, for the most needed, I think for the insurance of food in schools, I think it's been from last year and this year, we had problems both in 2013 and the 14th year, but I think it's done in a good way and that the single price of meals has been determined which was very important and that envelope has been increased to nearly 25 million kuna, the number of eligible counties then increased from 12 to 18 counties. And all school meals have been acceptable since the beginning of the school year. So, the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Affairs is really an extremely complex ministry, and all of us here in the Croatian Parliament, parliamentary representatives when we are making certain laws, or we are making changes and supplementing these laws, should always be kept in mind that we are actually looking for certain things in any of the changes that are related to both homes and centres of social care that can cause certain problems on the ground, and you know that you should also have a lot more people and professional people as often as they are not. In fact, they ensure the settlement of socially endangered and powerless and other persons whose main users are single, families who do not have enough resources to meet the basic needs of life, persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. Only the ministry in its composition said I have about 200 homes which state, which private, 80 centres of social care and 37 branches to carry out the activities of social care, centres for assistance and care, providing spectrum of rights and forms of care from financial assistance, institutional and outside the institution's care, permanent assistance, extras for assistance and care, assistance and care in the house, personal disability, parental status, care outside their own family and single assistance. So a very, very, very complex ministry. There is no more complex or demanding ministry in my opinion because it is precisely vulnerable and vulnerable groups in our society. And of course they will always be those who are not satisfied or are unfairly damaged because of perhaps procedural errors, human factors that are very important for this institution or for the very legal irregularities that we ourselves bring in this Croatian Assembly. So, all the objections listed are unargumented, unfounded, so here I suggest you all reject this opposition proposal, refuse to make a decision to show no confidence to Minister Nadi Murganić because he is doing his job with his team responsibly and consciously and in accordance with legal and material possibilities, the legislative words of the Croatian Parliament that are imposed on them but also the material opportunities they get from the government that are often insufficient because they always need more money for it. Thank you very much. I hope I saved some time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56875	I thank my colleague Anti Babic. We have two replicas. First replica of the esteemed colleague Goran Beus Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56876	I'm glad you gave me some information in your presentation, half as much as you did. I will explain them to which you directly opposed Minister Murganic's claims when she said that when she came that she had found such a condition that there was no programme and that nothing was done from European funds. But here's how then it's completely in a way incorrect to attack her like she didn't do enough. And you as Secretary of State will remember that on 29 August 2016, 32.6 million kunas were provided and agreed for a school diet for 23,000 children who are at risk of poverty and from FEAD for 12 and from the Croatian Children's Foundation for 9 more counties. So it didn't take long, only a month and two days, 13 projects were agreed, again from FEAD, so on 13 September 2016, amounting to 86 286 590 kunas for the mitigation of poverty by providing assistance to the most needed persons by dividing food and/or material assistance. So, when you were the secretary of state as I recall, right? That's exactly what happened back then. So in time it was prepared, in August and September. What's the date today? Eight? It's nine now. We're talking about children, the diet of school children. Thank you for helping us explain a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56877	I thank my colleague Richembergh. The answer of my colleague Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56878	My colleague Richembergh, the sums are correct, I can't remember all the details now, but the fact is as far as FEAD is concerned, he was already at the end while Mrs Milanka Opačić was, there were certain irregularities. So in good faith you certainly wanted to do much more and much better but there were certain irregularities that had to be corrected. It may have happened that there was not enough experience, perhaps that certain problems that had been solved on the walk, were then insufficient means and these were certain unloved scenes that I believe in well-willedly might not have been done but they happened as such. So, I don't think and you saw in the government's opinion, it's not that it wasn't until then and it doesn't say that anything was done in that way, it's been said about the situation that came across certain things, which the government has explained in its opinion. The fact is, I was brief in that ministry, the fact was, I remember, in the Household Act, that certain implementing acts were really not made, we were headed for this process but the government lasted for a while and it didn't happen and it really happened during Minister Murganic's implementation acts happened, that's true, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56879	I thank Mr. Anti Babic. Next replica, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56880	Thank you very much. Comrade Babić, you mentioned people with disabilities in your presentation on several occasions, so you asked me to read a letter that came to me a few minutes ago. People with disabilities watch the Croatian Parliament and write the following. Dear MPs and parliamentary representatives, we address you on behalf of the Association of Alliances of Persons with Disabilities of the Republic of Croatia as a roof association of persons with disabilities and on behalf of the Croatian Alliance of the Blind and on behalf of the initiative on the replacement of Minister Nada Murganić. For many years, our members of the victim are the political discontinuity or ineffectiveness of social policy, which, by any change of government, has moved over and over again by solving only segments. She wants to be replaced by a minister who has shown her will to maintain the continuity of caring for people with disabilities. A person who proposes welcome changes to the Social Care Act. It wants to deepen the status of isolation and poverty and leave the disabled with the minimum amount of compensation money in Europe. Do not raise your hand for this proposal because it is primarily political, day-to-day use, without any concern about vulnerable groups. Let Minister Nadi Murganić take us out of the status of social problems into the status in which we will live in a manner worthy of man, we trust her and we are giving her full support this time. The community of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities. I think this letter speaks enough of how many Croatian people support the minister, more than 512 thousand people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56881	I thank my colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. The answer of my colleague Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56882	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It is true, Mrs Lukačić, the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, once the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, is very careful and caring for people with disabilities, about 85,000 of them when you refer to the association of the blind, I know that this number is somewhere around 5 200, 5 210, so what they write is also true, so changes to certain laws but also certain governments are always partially touched by people with disabilities that they should not. You've been talking about some things about the Rehabilitation Act, but you've also mentioned that Law on the Single Body of Art, and I remember through that World Bank loan that we didn't mention tonight, one part of the funding was supposed to go to that Law on the Single Body of Art, or the institution itself, and we know that there were some problems, a large number of unsolved items, it seems to me to be about forty thousand, now it's shrinking. The fact is that those people who come to the ministry are looking very closely at people with disabilities and we should finally put ad acta or help them have as little problems in their lives as possible regarding the administration and bureaucracy that we ourselves produce, and on the other hand, the ministry knows that it maintains both education and assistance both through associations and the ministry itself, precisely for the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. And he spends a lot of money on it, and it's good to spend so much money. So these people who wrote to you are right and I think here and they confirm that both the minister and her associates are doing their job well and we want it to work even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56883	I thank my colleague Babic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Lately, Prime Minister Plenkovic, several times in public, has said about asking the agenda on trust issues, whether the minister, whether the government, or here, the opposition will not succeed again. Such a statement, that's a lot of colleagues, and today in the debate it spoke. Such statements show either complete ignorance of the way Parliament works and the role of Parliament, or they are one such trip to populism. If the opposition could get most of the votes, it wouldn't be opposition, it would be power. And the Prime Minister Plenkovic and his colleagues would be in opposition. Therefore, the reason for putting this topic on the agenda, there are more and I will list them on behalf of the GLAS Club, HSU here. However, however, Prime Minister Plenkovic feared this initiative enough, to call all of his numerous coalition partners, to ensure and verify how anyone would vote. So it seems or at least that it came to the public, that even Mr. Ilcic, who controls 1 vote in this House, has been promised or talked to him about the possibility of being a consultant, this time not at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but at the Ministry of Culture. And I daren't even think about what topics and what he would advise at the Ministry of Culture. So, setting up, just to secure that voice. So, asking a question of trust is a legitimate and regular way of warning Parliament and the public between the two elections, when citizens do not have the opportunity to declare serious shortcomings in the work of a minister or minister. in this case, as far as the GLAS and HSU Club is concerned, the shortcomings are the first one we discuss most about the issue of the Family Law proposal that was released to the public. And that's where I want to make it very clear. The problem with this law is not that it was released or withdrawn, the problem with this law is that it reflects a specific way of thinking. One system of values, and that system of values says, I'm gonna tell you whether or not you're family. And then a whole series of other things. It's not something that can be changed, because now it's some little mistake in the procedure or a little error in the sentence. This is a way of thinking about the role of the state in relation to citizen autonomy, individual autonomy. Family is what I say is my family. It's family. The state can't forbid me to be my brother and I to be a family. Therefore, in this problem, he did not put himself in public proceedings, i.e., public hearing proceedings or not. It is that it is put into public debate procedure, showing how the relationship between the state and the individual is considered. And the freedoms of every citizen she or he has the right to. So, with the question of family law, there's also a question of articulating attitudes. No one asked to comment on judicial judgments, whether by power or not, but by articulating attitudes about sexual abuse of children. This was the reason that the ministry clearly stood on one side and made clear what it meant by what was missing. The question of the Household Act, a particular topic that I will later say, and finally, the amendment of the Law on Advocates, or the Ombudsman for children. It is also an issue that calls into question the way the minister's position and attitude in the government in charge of these topics. Namely, if you disagree with one person, you are not satisfied with one person, it does not mean that the law needs to be amended so that the Ombudsman’s independence for children is annulled. The law which has been passed has annulled independence, annulment, independence of any lawyer, meaning the destruction of the institution. Because he or she in her basic task must also have that she occasionally becomes insidious in power. It's actually a major task. And if it depends on that authority every day if it votes non-acceptance of the report and therefore out, it loses its meaning. It's as if the institution of attorney for children has been abolished. So, this proposal of the Family Law, which was released in public debate, the government itself thought it was so bad that it pulled him off for more or less than 24 or 32 hours and as I said, bad, not because he's messy, because he's technically unsettled, because he's unsettled, but because he's conceptually guilty. The concept is wrongly set. And that's what reflects actually the values or the worldview if you want, not the left or the right. It's state interventionism in the private sphere or freedom of citizens and citizens in this private sphere. That's neither left nor right. It's actually a kind of totalitarian tendency to get into a man's most intimate sphere of determination of his own existence in the family. And that, of course, is the main point and the main reason. So that type of opinion is the main reason the GLAS and HSU Club believes Minister Murganic cannot continue this job. In addition, in this same law, let's say the Social Care Centre is thrown out, like, put on a level of professional assistance. But partners who get divorced and especially their children. And I have quite a number of friends and acquaintances who were in that situation, they're being brought directly to court. This situation, people who weren't in that situation don't know what that means. That you send children who are already undergoing trauma directly to court. Third in the law, the extramarital community is being discriminated against both child adoption and alimony. The fourth was said in that sentence, which the parents have above all rights and freedom to decide on the education and education of children according to their own beliefs. At first glance, you have nothing to say. Of course they have that right. But it is, of course, limited by the children's law that is guaranteed in this country to have the right to go to school. This may seem unusual to us, but there are societies, there are liberal beliefs that home schooling is therefore, not sending children to school, but home teaching them, alone, that this is a solution and that it is a way of opposing the state that they do not normally accept. So, kids in a situation where we have to fight, argue, that high school becomes mandatory, and not just basic, we actually get into a situation, open space, opportunities, that children don't go to school at all, and that, in accordance with their beliefs, parents leave them at home. It is about the Law of Fundamental Objections that we have on what has been put into practice, that is, in the public debate, I am stressing again, it is hard to believe that someone who thinks so will now think differently, will suddenly change the fundamental attitude that arises from this and treat this as some random mistake. Without reaction to the situation we've seen in these outrageous judgments of secus8sal abuse, something that's as well known as the world's monster. And what is in Croatian society, much more than we are aware of. And that is why there is a direct responsibility to talk about it in public, and especially to talk about it in public by a person who is at the head of the ministry in charge of youth among other things. The law on foster care that I mentioned is, as we all know, a life issue for children and the truth is that they live by institutions and the truth is that it should have been passed before. However, together with these earlier remarks, the state will determine whether or not you are a family. When you look at it in this context, then the idea of leaving children in institutions sounds much more dangerous than just some difficulty with schedules and time to adopt certain laws or rules. And finally, the amendment to the law that I already mentioned about the child's attorney, as I said, with such a law, actually the child's attorney is losing its meaning. Because if he has to watch out every time he gets by the fingers of the ruling, whether he gets by the fingers of the ministry, then there's no right or no right to do. And these are the reasons why GLAS and HSU will vote for the replacement of Minister Murganic. Because we believe that the approach to the central problems dealing with her ministry has shown a way of thinking, which is a civilizational step back from what we've already come up with. It's a fundamental problem that we see in this law and some of the other decisions that I've mentioned here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56885	I thank my colleague Vesni Pusic for this debate. Replica, dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56886	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pusic, you gave yourself a little more freedom in your interpretations on behalf of the club and when you said the state will not determine my family. It reminded me of one of my neighbors who had a wife and a son, they both died, he stayed and the dog and he said, listen neighbor, my dog and I are family. But it would be difficult for this family law we're talking about to apply to his dog. So we stick to content and the Family Law is one serious thing and we know what it determines and from not knowing fatherhood, motherhood, family legal protection of the child etc., etc. On the other hand, you were talking about that, about some totalitarian tendencies, you probably alluded to the government, and you said that it is also controversial from your proposal that parents have the right and freedom to decide independently about raising and educating children and, in accordance with their own beliefs, taking into account the rights and well-being of the child. Since you have made this proposal in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is above the law Article 116. The Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia shall have the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I invite you to read the article 64 which says that parents are obliged to raise and support children and have the right and freedom to decide independently about raising their children. That's paragraph 1. And what you said they didn't have, that the state couldn't and that the parents had no right, it reminds you, it reminded you of one Nikolai Ivanovich Buharin, who was the right hand of Stalin, who then said that parents had no right to decide on the education and education of their children, so that those children would be taken after they were raised to kill their own parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56887	I would like to thank my colleague Babic, colleague Pusic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56888	So you have the right of your colleague Babic, each man will determine differently what his family is, and therefore it should not be determined in this law, it simply should not be. No, because now that we're trying to be mom, dad and kids or one kid and one parent, it's pointless, every man will decide for himself, and in this law that definition doesn't need, that definition simply shouldn't be, so if you want for this reason that you're quoted, if a man thinks so, let him think, let him live like that. And it's wrong to remind you of Buharin because you should actually be reminded of John Stuart Mill who says that the right of one man limits the right and freedom of another man and this is about people, so parents are people, but you will allow and children are people. And civilization's achievement is in my deep belief that children have the right to go to school and that's something that gives them a starting position in life. And at first glance, this provision, as I said, does not cause any doubt. But when we know that such situations exist in the world, we need to be very careful. The Constitution does not say otherwise, the Constitution is very general in this, the Constitution is much more general than the law, any law. So what the Constitution says, the law interprets.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56889	I thank my colleague Pusic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56890	Thank you. Dear colleague Pusic, you have noted as one of the bad solutions if I understand the Family Law which is happily withdrawn, the situation in which parents are actually pushed into court immediately during the divorce. I also find this provision illogical, which we had, so before the Family Law in 2014. And why is it illogical to me because just when I was speaking on behalf of the club that there are certain normative solutions to the applicable law that have proved to be excellent is exactly the part where it means that before parents end up in court they are allowed to consult, a mutual agreement on child care and mediation is preferred as three steps that precede courts that are then expensive and exhausting etc., etc. And not only that, this one of ours, this resolution of divorce from our '14 Family Law, and then later in '15, even the EU Human Rights Agency pointed out as one of the three best examples with Germany and it seems to me that Estonia, which exists and many world experts have actually said that this is something that is excellent. And the results say that a large, large percentage, more than 50% of married couples actually manage to agree without getting to the court proceedings I repeat then they exhaust them and the children and create a bad environment in which children grow up, eventually and expensive, they are only earning lawyers against whose profits I have absolutely nothing but but if we can prevent that from happening?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56891	I thank my colleague, Glasov, for her response to Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56892	Thank you. Fellow Voter, the court is always the last instance. So if it can't be solved another way and there will always be cases and maybe half the cases that won't be solved through other procedures and eventually end up in court. But if you can spare yourself, so bogs and adults, these are the same people, they have some feelings, grown men and children to go through there, because the court is a court, it's such an instance where it's clear that it's actually to say insurmountable differences, so it's a conflict. If a part of the problem can be solved before and if it turns out to be working, do not fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56893	I thank my colleague Pusic for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Pusic, you mentioned home schooling as one possible exponent of giving such, I would say one implementation of the ultimate principle, that interpretations, however, you have another. We have also recently discussed vaccination or whether vaccination will be mandatory for children or not. You, me and all of us here were getting hundreds and hundreds of e-mails from people very aggressive some of them, so let's get this straight, little parentheses. There are two to five percent of people in whom really vaccines cause terrible consequences, it's scientifically proven and it's not controversial, but many of these people have simply had very unargumented, I've given myself a hard time so I've read some of these emails, a lot of them actually, opinions about that there are completely irrational fears of vaccines, completely ignoring the fact that it's one reach of medicine that for the vast majority of people is progress for humanity and has ensured a reduction of mortality that hasn't been seen in history. So you have there among them, among those hundreds and perhaps thousands of people who would also not vaccinate their children because they think it stems from their parental right that they know what's best, I mean, simply without arguments and so on. This isn't directly about this right now, but I'm just talking about it if we put that definition somewhere, I actually agree with you there. I think it's possible that it's going to transfer to some other area, that it's going to have some side effects. So this isn't... argument, I'm here doing an analogy on the trail of what you said in your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56895	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. Reply from colleague Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56896	Thank you very much. It is true that one small percentage of people who are being vaccinated have very bad consequences, but absolutely 100% of all who are not being vaccinated and infected with these diseases have fatal consequences as is known. So your argument in that sense, I think, is relevant to this debate because of the need to respect both children's rights and interests. So parents have the right to raise them and raise them, sometimes better, sometimes worse, but some children's rights they have. They must have the right to health care, have the right to education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56897	I thank my colleague Pusic for this answer. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56898	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary with co-workers and associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let me say what the position of the SDSS club is on this matter. First, the SDSS Representatives' Club will not support a request for the recall of Minister Murganic, and because the government has already adopted or taken certain measures so that the public and coalition partners' reactions to some solutions to the Family Law proposal can be corrected because the process of correction that has in some sense started to last until the moment is agreed on what the final draft of the law will look like. In other words, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will not support a law that will not be agreed and that will not reflect plurality that is characteristic not only for our society but primarily for the ruling majority. The ruling majority, by its composition, is plural and there is no doubt that one of the elements of the requirements that, as in society and those who join together to achieve certain political goals, as the government has joined its coalition majority in the Assembly to achieve certain... negotiate how and how to reach agreement on the achievement of these objectives. Now as far as matter is concerned, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I won't talk too much about this bill, there will be more opportunities to talk about it during the debate, but I want to say three, four things. First, first of all, as regards the Constitutional Court and its decision, the Constitutional Court in 2014 intervened with its decision the powers of the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately not for the first time. This is the most legislative body to be derivated in its powers and functions and it is not good for nor relations between the legislators, it is the Croatian Parliament, nor for the Constitutional Court as guardian of the legality in our country and constitutionality in our country. And I think that, in this respect, it should give the opportunity for the Constitutional Court to give a final statement on what is not good in this law since 2014, because the Constitutional Court has not delivered its opinion except that it has spoken of procedural matters about the fact that this law is too large, that the schedule of articles in that law is such that it is not readable enough, etc. and these are not things that the Constitutional Court should deal with seriously in the sense of that word. It's a dacture, but it's not a matter of constitutionality. And we talked about it in one conversation with Minister Murganic, and I think we got along well. As far as three other things are concerned, I'd like to say, now that we're already on the sidelines of the entire debate, since there are less than 17 of us left in this hall. Part of the key actors are gone, but it doesn't reduce the seriousness of the debate we're having. Because the very fact that we stayed up this late in the night, that the minister kept most of her first associates and associates, shows that we hold onto this topic and these things we discuss. First of all, I would like to say, quoting one of the world's leading politicians since the end of the 20th century a former British copy, which she said in '87. Mr. in one of his speeches, and you know there's no such thing as a society. There are only individual men and women and there is a family. Society doesn't exist. Mrs. Thatcher was known as an extremely conservative, of her time. Meanwhile, conservatives who are far more to the right than she came and in this sense far more radical right-wing attitudes than they were. She was one apartment politically conservative. Which some of us can't agree with then or today. Because there is certainly a society between these individual men and women and queens. Because between these individual men and women and a church or a nation, there is certainly a society. Because if he's not here, it's dangerous. Then both families and individual men and women become the easy prey of something we certainly wouldn't want to happen. And now I'm going to say what I mean by that. Imagine circumstances that a family will claim to be the center of education and education, and such words can be heard. And with all eyes and ears open. And we all know very well, for example. The average Finnish family, as well as the average Croatian family, spends most of their time outside the house. For work, for school, for meeting with friends, it's rare for her to do things that were once the only family ever to do. And that's to have lunch and have dinner or at least have lunch. Who, then, if both children and parents are out of the house, will have a good part of the time while we're awake. How long does that family have to deal with children? And who deals with children at that time until they're together, society, with their institutions. Gardens, schools and various other forms of socialism. And no doubt we have to pay attention to that. They're this extended family. Which takes over a whole series of educational and educational obligations. And not only can we not escape, but we need to focus on how children can get through this system as well as possible. And help our families know what this system is and what it brings to children and what it can take away from them. You know, in some schools, Dr Pusic and I were in Finland after the EU negotiations ended, where children needed everything they needed in that school. There are no tasks to go home with. But you're going in the evening. It would be ideal to think about whether we in Croatia can have this kind of condition, that parents can devote themselves to children when they come home exclusively in matters concerning some kind of supervision, care, care or other matter. The other thing I'm trying to say is that parents have to pass their beliefs on to their children, so they carry on a lot, but less and less. In addition to genetic material, other than habits, other than the social and other opportunities of the economic ones that exist, they are increasingly less and less transmitted. The nation is being less and less transmitted, and other mechanisms are being transmitted. And for that reason, it seems extremely important to me that we know who's doing it. And how he does it. If it's not specific individuals, men and women, it's the social institutions. You know, if it were to ask some parents from some of our homelands 50, 60 years ago, they wouldn't have sent kids to school, especially not girls, because it was against their beliefs, but society was changing those beliefs. Same in a number of other things we do today. We're changing our beliefs. And we believe we're making progress. There are a number of indicators that show that we are progressing both in terms of freedom and in terms of equality, within the family and family towards family. And the last thing I want to say is when it comes to this subject. We, if we do not observe on one side the social side in which the family is based and maintain assumptions about it, the social framework of the family, will lose our family. If we try to define our family in a way that has been unfortunately tried with this bill, we will get that people will flee our country because of the narrow framework. Just like they do in other cases. Because of surrogate motherhood, because of artificial insemination, I don't know what else, they go to other countries. That's how it's going to happen to us if we're too rigid in defining what should be less defined, but not because we think we're abandoning it or not, then we're going to have difficulties. You know, because it's absolutely certain that some of our people are leaving because they're looking for better living conditions in the economic sense of that word, but the good part of our people is leaving because it's got a tight skin in which we sewed it and it's not a good atmosphere. For this reason, I would like to be guided by these 3, 4 very principled views to build some kind of consensus on how on the one hand to avoid what fellow Pusic has talked about that the state should not get too involved except by creating a social framework for a successful family, a protected family, certainly as stable as possible. And as sustainable as possible. So, the SDSS Club believes that this debate at such a late hour is a significant contribution, although the importance of efforts for many who have participated in it, especially for those who were exclusively required to listen to speakers who exchanged for this speaker or for others, but a significant contribution to exercise in a debate on a topic that is important for every society, so it is particularly important for our society at this point to argue about which idea we actually want to have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56899	I thank Mr. Pupovac for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56900	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pupovac, I liked this debate and it would take a lot more time to talk about what you were saying. The fact is that you relativize the family, you said that you would be against distrusting Minister Murganic but how to look after certain things that are related to this Family Law and that you would not want the family as such to be defined by the law that when and not the case in this Family Law. My colleague Pusic was talking about some sort of liberal opinion as far as I understand it, where you don't have to and don't have to determine whether the child will go to school or not, you were talking about the Finland case. Now, from what I've concluded, I like the debate, then you would define if you define the definition that society is our family. And why am I saying that? The world that surrounds us, what we live for, our legal, material relations have defined the definition of family in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in different ways. Thus, you are defined in the law and in this draft proposal for defenders, for married and extramarital friends, an extramarital friend who has a child is also treated as a family, or his family, his parents. In the Law on Social Welfare, this definition of family is completely different because it refers to those who work together, who spend both on married and extramarital friends and their offspring. In the Penal Code, it's different again and it's an extended definition of family. So you have to do it because of the material and legal relations that concern that law or the law that covers it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56901	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. Come in, buddy Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Babić, I certainly would not want the family to be defined as a society, because it would be upside down for society and for the wrong and for the family. Because what's true for the family isn't true for society. We've known this a long time ago since the first and second years of studies we studied, and probably from high schools. Do you need to define a family? It is absolutely certain that in some circumstances it is necessary to define family and we can talk about it, but what is already clear to me is that some restrictive definition of family that will not meet the circumstances of the modern state of family life and the forms of family life that exist in today’s kind of sociality, and then sociality in the form of a common life of men, women or women or children or men or children or children. Then we have to look at it that way. I particularly said that I would not talk about the whole of the law, but if you look at some kind of logic legislative, you see that this restrictive element continues in other articles not only in the definition but also in other articles. I can understand why, but I'm not sure I can agree with that, not because it's just the opposite of my view of the world, but because I'm afraid it's too restrictive for what we need today as a society and family.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56903	I thank Mr. Pupovac for his reply. We move on to the next debate on behalf of IDS, PGS, LRI's respected colleague, Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I will try to be as brief as possible, but I will do my best and make it as clear as possible. Our club supported the proposal to launch a trust issue with Minister Murganic for two basic reasons. The first thing that has already been said several times tonight, due to the published extreme text of the Family Law, which, according to the usual Croatian practice, is only after strong criticism of the public, and others are also very important because of one broader aspect and the way the government is approaching very important issues in Croatian society. Family law is one of the foundations that guarantees the social state that Croatia should be and should be according to its constitutional decree, and therefore it was justified to set up a working group to draft this very important law. However, the result of their work was an ideologically written text in which part of the working group involved its ultra-conservative attitudes I would like to say to myself that they have misused their position and thus tried to push through the provisions promoting social exclusion in the text of the Family Law. By referring to a public discussion of such a proposal of the Family Law which, as it is said tonight, contains a number of problematic formulas such as the definition of family from which a couple without children is not a family, that foster parents and children who raise them are not family. The ministry headed by the minister has further encouraged the already highly expressed divisions in Croatian society and allowing this text of the Family Law to come into public debate at all, the minister has shown either that she has not read the text of the bill at all or that she has no power or that she does not want to resist radical conservative groups that want to restrict fundamental civil rights and make a closed society from Croatia and I believe that it is the core of all the problems and that in many fields in Croatia today it extends... The conservatism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we continue to allow the strengthening of radical conservative initiatives, as I have said before by my own minister, or perhaps it is more correct to say by inaction we have just done, we will allow Croatia to be classified in the order of non-free, extremely closed societies that deny modern civilization values and the fluids of modern society. Furthermore, there were very few words about this, and I would like to highlight this in the debate and the Family Law is an important topic and it is actually inconceivable or rather inadmissible to me that there was no coordination of such an important act within the government itself, especially between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Resort. In this regard, Minister Murganic's failure to react leads to her political responsibility. That's what I said in the replica before, that's what I want to do again. We must pursue higher political standards, we must raise scales of criteria. And I am indeed of the opinion that we would not be discussing the issue of confidence tonight, Minister Murganic, but that she should have resigned because of her responsibility. So far, we have fought as a club and we will continue to fight exclusion, but we have the view that it should finally begin to be done by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56905	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Living Wall Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56906	Dear Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's how we are really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, What I would like to say at first is that definitely Mr. Pupovac's debate was one of the debates that we should all imagine and who I really consider to be hit and extremely good at. As far as our relationship with the ministry is concerned, and with Minister HNS, she will support the minister. Our reasons are for this, our cooperation so far has really shown that the minister is an extremely inclusive person, extremely willing to cooperate, ready for arrangements, ready for talks and ready to find the best possible solutions that can be offered to our citizens in the day. We also have to admit, and we all know that the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy is a ministry that deals with, let's say so in the most sensitive population of our society, and unfortunately the ministry is the most common link and the most difficult human destiny and the most difficult human stories, and I definitely wouldn't want to be in the skin of a minister in that ministry personally because the real decisions he makes are far-reaching for the entire population. When I was preparing for this debate, we all know that we are very quickly forgetting the good things and I wanted to remind myself and I went to look for things that the ministry had done since the first day the minister took office. And with a brief and quick screening I came to some conclusion that indeed many of the moves that the minister and her associates had made were actually systematic and structural. What I would particularly mention and what I have specifically singled out is a few of those things that I think were extremely important and urgent at the time and were really solved by the fastest possible procedure, which was, first of all, the question of personal assistants for people with disabilities. So the minister took up the post immediately. It was warned and threatened that, at that time, people with disabilities would be eight months without assistants, it was impossible to resolve it. Here, I don't remember people with disabilities being without assistants and it's really solved with a good reaction. The ministry has now taken over and has been added what is extremely important to our country and the aspect of demographics. It's definitely one huge responsibility and a huge measure of national importance for our Republic. And for the first time in nine years, there was an increase in maternity and parental support. And it wasn't a small percentage, but birth and parental support have grown significantly, of course with budget possibilities and I believe it's only one of the first moves that are definitely not the ones that will solve the demographic policy of the Republic of Croatia but I definitely think it's one of the first moves that contributes to our active intelligence policy. There's been a lot of talk today about the legal protection of children. For me, in some ways, this legal protection of children was shown at the time when the minister stood by the Centre for Special Care, for which even earlier in the previous meeting was planned and shut down. This institution deals with the legal, protection of the most sensitive groups and these are children and persons with disabilities. And it goes through the facility a year and there are about 3,400 cases a year to solve. So the support was provided to the Centre for Special Care, and by doing so, 3400 fates I believe will be facilitated and can be resolved in a better way. We've recently had a case of foster parents who are also resolved let's say by quick reaction, meeting and dealing with parent problems, let's say in their most difficult moments of life. Unfortunately, this situation has led us to the cruelty of some of our laws, but by quick reaction it has also been resolved. As far as family law itself is concerned, you've seen the HNS react. It was definitely unacceptable for us at the time that the definition of family was in the law. We contacted the Minister and the Ministry on those days, and our proposal was, among other things, to withdraw the law from the public debate, to process it and then to return to the public debate, which is also respected, it is again shown that the persons involved are ready to communicate and agree. In fact, our goal in the HNS is to pass a law that will best protect the interests of children and everyone else in the best way possible. We are now preceded by a new public debate and I believe that the public debate itself will crystallise enough remarks and suggestions, and I believe that after all this, we will have the best law for the citizens and I dare say it for ourselves because this law refers to an absolute member of our society. And what we definitely think is that what we need to evaluate is that these are the results. Family law is still a lot of steps away from the final result we will have, now we have more public debates, behind this government procedure, after which the law returns to the parliamentary procedure. I believe that all of us who have debated actively in the debate today and that we will bring and give our contribution to creating a better law, and I believe that this should be our common goal and the desired result of the best law for our citizens that I believe we will ultimately have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56907	I thank my colleague Pooh for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Puh, it's really very late and I'd like you to not take what I'm about to say personally but commentary is more general. It concerns your party and your party's positions, so not you personally. After this disclamer, I mean let me just say that you have expressed the party's position which for two reasons is completely irrelevant. Before from the position of legitimacy. Namely, this is a discussion that we have had many times, you have joined the government by taking them votes and mandates given to you by Croatian citizens across the street, so in an obstacle to the people with whom you are now. In that sense, your legitimacy when you talk about it is compromised and it's not ad-hominem. So it's a simple question of some electoral legitimacy. The second argument, or second reason why it is irrelevant, is a real political character. So HNS's positions so far in this government, you've been communicating with them, your party's been communicating with them, but they've never been heard from. One HRAST gets whatever he wants, the HNS at least in this sense of curricular reform or these world-famous ones, as we have said many times today, simply failed to break through. It's possible they're not actually HNS priorities. I don't know, I can't and I don't really want to get into it, especially not right now. But I just want to tell you, I mean, I couldn't keep quiet about what I just said, because it just can't stay quiet and not at two hours and 35 minutes in the morning. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56909	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. My colleague Glavasevic, this replica of yours had nothing to do with the subject, but you explained the relations within the coalition and how you say "context", but well, it doesn't matter. Here you go, fellow Pooh, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56910	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's colleague Glavasevic, I'll take the right to disagree with this finding now, that's definitely our right. I'm going to start with this last one even if it's unrelated to the current topic and the current conversation that you've pointed out is that we're not being seen at all and there's nothing that the HNS stands for. So here today we had the current morning and you could hear the minister that the curricula reform has gone far away, that things have changed a long way since Minister Divjak entered the government and we're introducing Croatia into the 21st century even though some are opposed to introducing computers and information in primary and secondary schools, but unfortunately, I think it's something that's inevitable, something that should have been done long ago, and that's one of your main and great evidence. We entered the coalition, our condition was to carry out a curricula reform, that our children, our future age better education and a better opportunity in the future, so I absolutely disagree with you that the HNS is not visible. Maybe it's our fault because we should do a little bit more to promote and remind people every day but the shifts are visible and I'm going to try as hard as I can to present that citizens themselves become aware of the things that have happened. Now you've just reminded me that I have a little more time, recently I was at a meeting attended by scientists from both Ruđer and the natural universities, which are about a month and a half, two months after the scholarships were introduced to STEM students, they were actually not aware of it and they didn't know it, fellow Sabine for students studying in STEM areas. I think we've figured out what we're talking about. So they said themselves it's a great move but give it more presentation, more advertise that people know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56911	I thank my fellow Puh who also did not talk about the subject, but well, offered by the replica Glavasevic is understandable your reaction. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the government of the Republic of Croatia, dear Minister Mrs. Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56912	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. It was really what you would say here in our political jargon was constructive, but it was. I heard really different opinions and those who were supportive and those who were critics but really benefited. The majority of the debate was dedicated to the Family Law, which was also the trigger of this entire event and events in this House today. Of course I won't comment on anything about family law, that we'll leave it to the presentation of a document when the time comes. But I can see from everything that there's a lot that we in this assembly on the left and on the right, from the middle we can agree on about Family Law, and where we can't. And I will really try if I stay on this duty that as I have worked hard so far, I will do this job really to the satisfaction of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What is not good is not a good thing to react to any attempt to suggest something like this. This means that such a high ladder has been achieved that no one can make a proposal that no one will like. As we discussed everything now, we were able to do so no matter when and how and how the public debate took place. However, what I always agree with is that everyone has the right to think, so he has the right to think that I do not satisfy this duty, and I have never resented it personally, nor in public space, and I have always had any opinions about any officials, whether they were in the former government or they are in this government or they will be in any future. That's what's personal of me. As for my colleagues, or Agent Richembergh, I'd really like to sort of feel like we've been collecting pears and apples, so I'd like to repeat that we're in charge of withdrawing funds from three operational programs. And when I said that no contracts had been reached that this involved effective human potentials and competitiveness and cohesion, and FEOD was the third programme that existed before, that is, the funds were withdrawn and negotiated before and before, so my open competition was the first. Here's just so clean that it's important, but the two of us can always exchange data. Thank you very much, good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56913	I thank Mrs. Nadia Murganic. We have one replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56914	Ms. Secretary, you were inspiring with this one sentence that you had your opinions on some officials from the former government and then you were challenged by nothing and you told the current government, so is there someone from the current government to help us write another motion for impeachment? This is how you thought you had that kind of opinion. So, of course you... Well, he had one. [[Invader Murganic, you can't hear.]] It's an anthological sentence that he has an opinion that he disagrees with. It was also often a case in the government. I've seen that kind of opinion myself several times. So this was one, like I said before, a debate in zero or a previous debate on family law. Certainly if this small, brave and chosen team that lasted until 2.43 a night managed to endure this item of the agenda until 2.43 a night, then somewhere in the early morning would be the first reading, and imagine only the second reading of the Family Law if it came to the Parliament, if you could agree as Mr. Pupovac said in his debate over the text of the Family Law. Therefore, this is obviously one matter that has caused great public attention and a quality debate in the Croatian Parliament. Because if you were to look at the content of certain discussions, then it was actually a much less debate about you, and a lot more about the content of what went out for public consultation, and you would probably be a good message that next time you pay attention when something goes from sensitive things to public consultation. Thank you and good night, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56915	I thank my colleague Arsen Bauk for this replica. Final word on behalf of the proposer Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56916	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. And now the closing word on behalf of the promoter is 30 minutes, so let's see if we can hold out, so whoever endures will talk! ... Of course, of course. [[You can't hear it.]] But good joke aside. Here we are at 2.44, 2.45. In the final word, I actually want to underline some things. We have indeed initiated this interpretation and, as the Minister said, it was the Family Law, but there were also some other things that were involved in these discussions. A fellow Boris probably went to sleep and said at one point, I did not react because there were many replicas. He says this is going to be called the Dark Interpellation. Now, that's what I'd say to my colleague Boric. The dark isn't something ugly, your dark is something good, so then I think there's a little something in that replica wrapped up, or mixed up. We've launched a motion for the Minister's recall, we've said why we're doing it. We were clear and unequivocal. Equally in a series of replicas that have proved to be actually one law and I will return to the Family Law that is extremely important, which is important. There are also some things that have been shown, which is that there are really fellow parliamentary representatives who are basically fighting for what is in the law written that was in the public debate for a day and a half, and there are also those who think it should be different. Every debate should have a purpose. The purpose of this debate should be to look at the whole process as follows, which is that in one democratic country as we want to be, the opposition has the possibility to point out and to argue that the work of one ministry is not satisfactory, it does, but the goal is to encourage someone in their work to be better, so I listened very carefully to my colleague Pupovac, and now the minister who said she heard a number of things and that she would make sure that the Family Law that would come into the parliamentary procedure in two readings that all of this she heard here would probably, not all of it, but part of it would be incorporated into the Family Law and that is one of the objectives. Of course, the first and the primary goal is to see and to go to vote of confidence for the minister, but if something is wrong somewhere along the way, given that there are a number of hands, that we already have a goal, to get a family law that is better, which is more open, which in the sense of certain already-deserved systems that we have set up reasonable, we have already done our job in part. Thank you very much to everyone who participated in the debate, thank you very much to these most persistent ones who came to these late or early morning hours. Those of us in the House can stop right now, so it's worth it to us that we were on Thursday, but a joke on the side and a persistent, persistent minister along with colleagues from the ministry who were constantly listening to all our debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56917	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mrak-Taritash, for this final word. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the minister and her associates for participating in the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 in the morning with the united items of the agenda 3rd, 4th and 5th, the Reports on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2017 and on the rebalancing of the budget for 2017 and 2019. Thank you very much. Have a good night. Session interrupted at 02.48 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-08-0.u56918	The proposal to launch the trust issue Nadi Murganic, Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, is proposed by 33 MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for making a decision on distrusting a member of the government need a half majority of all MPs, therefore 76 votes. I vote, who is for the decision not to trust Nadia Murganic, Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy? Please, let's vote. I find that 129 MPs voted, 49 voted in favour, 78 MPs were against, and 2 MPs were abstentioned. I note that no decision has been taken to show no confidence in Nadia Murganic, Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, and that Minister Nada Murganic still has the trust of the Croatian Parliament. I saw two hands, my colleague Sincic, a colleague of Strenja Linic. Here you go.
