ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24488	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. On behalf of the Advocacy Club, I request a five-minute break from Croatia to warn the public of an inadmissible relationship between Croatia and the claims of financial assets towards the republics of the countries of Slovenia, Serbia, and this funding would be more than enough for the purchase of MOL shares in the case of INA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24489	Thank you. Representative Pernar also reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24490	Thank you. I'm looking for a break to warn myself of the inadmissible way in which Vice President Zeljko Reiner runs the Parliament's sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24491	Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24492	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ten minutes break on behalf of the MOST club on gas Te Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24493	Hrelja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24494	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, I request a ten-minute break so that citizens of the Republic of Croatia or pensioners who receive foreign pensions and pay taxes in Croatia will be warned of certain tax administration notifications, I think they will be useful to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24495	Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24496	Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for a demonstration of Friday's debate over the removal of immunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24497	If there are no more requests, I approve a ten-minute break and then an explanation of the breaks. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. The first representative to ask for a break is representative Ivan Lovrinović in front of the club Let's change Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24499	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, and I especially welcome all citizens who follow us through small screens. On behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia I would like to warn of the inadmissible situation and position of Croatia in relation to the financial assets or money that it requests from the two former Yugoslav republics of Slovenia and Serbia. It seems that Croatia is the only country in Europe that does not actually care about the money of its taxpayers citizens who have long borrowed from someone and today does not insist on that money being returned. Why am I saying this today, bringing up this problem? Already today, the media will appear, in all media outlets, that Slovenia re-insists and raises the issue of the Ljubljanska Banka. What's this all about, to remind you briefly? 8.10.1991 means when the former Yugoslavia fell apart and all ties of Croatia with the former republics in the main branch of the Ljubljanska banka in Zagreb were declared to be broken down and 931 million German marks were deposits, or savings from Croatian citizens. What happened here? Of which, the state, the Croatian state took over of the 931 million German marks as a public debt of 2/3, which means about 600 million marks. The Croatian state paid out of the state budget and that was so-called untransmitted savings. 1/3 of 931 million marks are paid after the judgment of the Ljubljana Bank court over the past months and weeks, but what is interesting again is not paying off with interest but only paying citizens the principal. Well, please, that's inadmissible. So if the state of Croatia has suffered about 600 million marks in the 1990s, since 91st, if we calculate and this is the claim directly from the Republic of Slovenia or the Ljubljanska Banka, if we calculate interest and tighten interest it turns out to be about 2 billion euros. Therefore, the state of Croatia is asking the Republic of Slovenia to pay itself out of its budget at the time of the war about 600 million marks with regular and tight interest rates of around 2 billion euros. What's the situation with Serbia? About 1987, the Republic of Croatia was directly in charge abroad to complete the project Đerdap 3 large hydropower plants then the largest in Yugoslavia, but also has a claim from the construction of a thermal power plant, the large Obrovac thermal power plant, not Obrovac but Obrenovac. It was invested there and Croatia invested around 580 million German marks there. What was the deal then, for this equivalent of 580 million German marks, Croatia was supposed to get cheaper so-called. Subsidized electricity. Croatia received neither electricity nor money. Why am I saying this all together? So let me ask the previous prime ministers and the current prime minister, gentlemen, why don't you ask President Vukic and Cerar when they'll pay the debt? And you see Croatia for 10 or 50 million euros or dollars any drought can pull through state courts. When we account for the Serbian debt of these 580 million marks of regular and tight interest, it also comes today, because it's a 1987 debt, it's also about 2 billion euros. So cumulatively Croatia asks these two countries about 4 billion euros, so instead of those who came up with the idea that for the purchase of INA, MOL sells HEP gentlemen take the job, charge what Croatia has given someone and do not sell state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24500	I would like to thank Agent Lovrinovic. Representative Ivan Pernar also requested a break in front of the Live Wall club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24501	Thank you, Chairman. Today again in this House after I was brutally thrown out of it on Friday. And the purpose of the whole debate on Friday was whether or not the accusations you allegedly made as chairman, or as a member of the Most, against then-Prime Minister Karamark, were justified. We tried to warn against all the crime that somehow connected with the former HDZ president and during the presentation of my colleague Ivan Sincic was repeatedly interrupted. Unfortunately, Reiner’s chairman did not just interrupt him at the time, but he interrupted many other MPs and countless times no matter where the parties came from. I believe that every MP has the right to his time as a Rules of Procedure. So if the Rules of Procedure lets me replicate for two minutes, I have the right to two minutes on the line and I have the right to discuss 10 minutes on an individual debate. Also, the chairman of Reiner is not his role in the functioning of the Parliament to be every pot cover, meaning that as chairman he throws, delivers, comment, interferes, etc. Because be careful when you have a 10 minute speech, you are interrupted six times or nine times during those 10 minutes. In such circumstances, simply no one can follow what you said more and actually pretends, plays, speech ceases to be one meaningful and logical whole. By way of derogation from the topic, everyone under quotes did not essentially deviate from the subject on Friday. Why? Because the topic is whether to remove your immunity or not. It was a debate. And it was very important on my part to see if they were in my opinion, meaning these charges, or whether or not he had a basis. Because we know this House has no unique practice. So in the case of Zeljko Jovanovic of the SDP, he, when he called HDZ a criminal organization, then removed immunity for slander, for slandering ladies and gentlemen, you removed his immunity. And when it was discussed then it wasn't a technical matter, it was a political matter. And when it comes to a former HDZ member, that's when every debate tries to contain itself. Also, it is unacceptable for Branimir Bunjac to be represented in the Croatian Parliament, for the Assembly guard to take his cell phone out of his hand. It's inaccessible to a team more than it's forbidden under the Constitution of censorship. Taking his cell phone out of hand was an exclusive goal of preventing the public from seeing what was going on here. Why? Because HTV was broadcasting that video and everything was going live. And that video was the only thing that could prevent violence until then unseen in the Croatian Parliament. I repeat in the Croatian Parliament in 25 years of my existence, it has not happened that the kind of force applied to me by the Zeljko Reiner directive has been applied. These are dangerous precedents, and I want to fight this opportunity, so for freedom of speech not only myself but also all other agents. And you know gentlemen of the HDZ there are 20 times more of you in Parliament than we do in the Living Wall. If you think one of us is wrong, he has the guilty of saying that logical thesis or that you simply feel that you are right to answer the debate. Don't pick up any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Sign up for discussion, participate in discussions, and not that the assembly is empty and that you are not there. And then report nicely to the replicas and you can discuss everything, and the easiest thing to say is I take your word and interrupt you in the presentation. And this way I announce that every time President Reiner interrupts me in the exhibition, I will go to the end until the Assembly Guard wears me, because I don't think it has the right to disturb me and to harass me in what I want to say because I've been chosen for that reason here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24502	Representative Miro Bulj also requested a break. It's an independent list club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24503	Mr. President, at first I corrected my colleague Pernar that Mr. Karamarko was not the prime minister but Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in recent months in the region of Dalmatia, i.e. The Cetin end of the people during the Environmental Impact Study on thermal power plant, i.e. Gas power plants that would be built by the source itself, i.e. With the very headquarters of Peru, he rightly opposes it. And this way, I'd also like to say the facts about why the people of the Cetino region are opposed to this ecological disaster that would happen to this construction of a gas station. The gas plant in Peru would be a continuous element that would generate about 280 thousand gallons of waste water per day that would go into the river Cetina without the specifications of harmful substances, or their concentrations. The environmental impact study itself concludes that it has no impact on the environment, and the designers themselves say that all of these waters have acids or are scarred. It's a clear contradiction. The release of so much acid and luminos would directly destroy our river, the drinking river Cetina, and that largest area, the river of drinking water in Europe would make it impetuous. Can this cetin end and rh allow and can anything worse happen? The facility would take 8 metres of cubic water per second, drop 8 degrees of heat cellulsion. The study claims there's no heating of the lake. The lake would be heated and, of course, the flora and fauna would be destroyed. Yesterday in one article physicist Mislav Citkovic showed that this calculation in the study is incorrect, but you should not be a doctor of physics to conclude it. The warmth of 350 thousand one kilowatt heaters would warm Peru and the river Cetina, and destroying the entire life in it. The amount of exhaust gas over two million pounds per hour or 760 kilos per second is terrifying. 760 kilos of gas per second from a chimney that is 110 meters high and 9 meters wide. There are numerous compounds, the amount of CO2 of 145 tonnes per hour is equivalent to 150 000 cars that work all the time. Heavy metals that are toxic in the Environmental Impact Study are not even mentioned. The height of the chimney is huge. The climate in Peru is extremely unfavourable, and therefore the study does not mention it on purpose, either by wind or by various rainfalls. The public study is inaccessible on the Internet, Google is not found, the designers falsely quote the Ruđera Bošković Institute, the Institute disproves the participation of the study, and eventually the gas plant declares it a green energy source, which is the gas so it is pure spin. Why would such wrong data if the project was so clean? Over 30 of the same plants in Western Europe during 2014 and 2015 have been closed due to insolvencies. Why are these power plants suddenly only cost-effective in Croats? Here's why. The SDP government adopted the Law on Energy Sources highly effective... and introduced a market application of the difference between the agreed price and the market price at which the state directly takes from Croatian citizens and pays to electricity producers. That is why the plant is profitable because its debts would be paid by Croatian citizens as well as by Vertroelectrics. In the end, it's not just about energy control, it's about a system of objects located at the drinking water hub in the center of the Dalmatian Burn. While other European countries have set their strategic goals, as well as investment in drinking water sources as strategic interests that in the world every country is at war, and in their preservation without compromise, the Republic of Croatia has no strategy to preserve the drinking water of its greatest wealth. More specifically, there are strategies to build a gas Te at such a source. In the name of the people who rebelled rightly, I demand that this project be stopped, that the energy market be stopped. regulate and protect urgently [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you Representative Bulj.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24504	Thank you. Representative Silvano Hrelja also requested a break from the HNS-HSU club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24505	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's when the finance minister so smoothly refused me 6.7 amendments I didn't expect him to be able to get this kind of pension notice to pensioners who receive pensions from abroad. In the meantime, I asked for a break and wrote off about the situation that someone who has two thousand kuna pensions in Croatia and receives two thousand kuna pensions from Slovenia, he pays tax advances not as much as his obligation, which is 24 kunas a month but 240 kuna because he pays taxes on the total amount from Slovenia, in order to achieve a personal tax refund at the end of the year. Here I now have to inform all our pensioners who are thus receiving pensions from abroad that there is a foreign tax administration notice to pensioners who are receiving pensions from abroad and it is very interesting or much more favourable for them than the current way of calculating tax advances. In fact, Croatia's pension will now be taken into account and a possible difference from the total non-taxable amount of 3,800 kuna and only the rest will be paid in advance of the tax. There will always be a difference, small differences will always be because there will be harmonisations both in Croatia and in coordination abroad. I also ask that with special attention those who receive from some countries where taxes are paid both in Croatia and in those countries, e.g. in the United States and for them there is news as there is news for pensioners who have received regressions from other countries or Santa Clauses is the same exemption from taxation. So even though this could have been resolved some seven, eight years ago, even though what has been done so far made no sense, I have to commend either a new person or a new organization in the IRS that they finally realized that there was no point in giving back the poorest or the people with relatively small incomes to the state all year long, so that at the beginning of next year or in the middle of next year, they would get their money back. So these are positive shifts. And the fact is that in this notice, all pensioners who receive retirement in such a way to report to the IRS, ask for information, return their PK cards and will be issued a new tax advance solution by the end of March. Of course this may be a long and thorny road, I've talked about it many times, but now I have one pleasure and I can't escape, I can't be one of those politicians who's gonna put everything on this or that government, but those things that are good I just have to compliment. Is that this is all an ex-post mind but every honor to the one who chewed this whole matter up and made one quality solution by which our pensioners who receive pensions from abroad will in a more favourable way have a reckoning and pay taxes on pensions. Of course, it should be said that it is a great shame that we didn't do it there in 2008, so surely those pensioners in Germany would not pay taxes in Germany today, and on our HZZO burden they would be health insurance rather than the two facts might be compensated. But I'm saying, better late than never. And to those who have arranged this system in this way, congratulations, and I want this system to improve even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24506	I'd like to thank Mr. Hrelja. Representative Branko Bacic also asked for a break in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24507	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, on behalf of the HDZ Club, would apologize to all Croatian citizens who were able to follow through the media on Friday the rather inappropriate scenes that took place during the debate on the removal of immunity to some of our colleagues and at the request of private prosecutors. I would once again say that the Croatian Parliament is the highest state body and the highest state institution, the most representative and legislative body that should in any way safeguard its integrity in the Croatian public. However, the conduct of our parliamentary representatives, the way we enter into the debate, the way we treat each other and the way we primarily treat people who are not parliamentary representatives, and who, as in a specific case, have asked for satisfaction because they are defamed cannot contribute to the dignity of the Croatian Parliament. It is therefore the fundamental role of the Chair, President of the Parliament, the Chair of the Parliament, and of taking into account the respect of the Rules of Procedure so that, according to those MPs who do not follow the Rules of Procedure, one of the normal discussions that is similar to the High House can be held. Unfortunately, we are aware that there are certain colleagues and colleagues, primarily colleagues who do not respect nor parliamentary representatives, nor respect those who refer to them in their discussions and who ask the Croatian Parliament to allow them to have access to and protection in the Croatian judiciary. I say, unfortunately, not to respect the Rules of Procedure but to harshly insult the MPs and, in that sense, it is necessary for the chairman and president to react and protect both the parliamentary representatives of our fellow Members and the other Croatian citizens. On Friday, I said on behalf of the club that so far there was a practice that the Croatian Parliament did not remove immunity from parliament MPs after private lawsuits, but until now, this practice was completely different because earlier in the past terms in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, at the request of the removal of immunity to the parliamentary deputies, we did not enter into the measure of things, we did not once again, following the request for the removal of immunity and the same person who asked for individual representatives to remove immunity and once again tonized, slandered, insulted, insulted as it happened last Friday. That is why we at the HDZ Club will, in the future, ask for the removal of immunity from individual parliamentary deputies in private lawsuits, and take care of how and how we, as parliamentary representatives, treat these same persons who do not allow all satisfaction in the court and to defend our honor. Because not only does we not allow them to defend themselves in court, to prove their innocence because they are slandered by individual MPs, but we insult them once more, we wrong them once more, we defile their reputation and what we do to their families only they know it. Therefore, in this regard, I wanted to say that we will think very carefully about whether we will keep the immunity of representatives in the Croatian Parliament if it continues with the practice that we have started in this term over the past few months. And what I want to say is that in a particular case in which the Vice-President of the Assembly Mr. Željko Reiner had in full fact to implement and maintain the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by doing so and thereby the level of debate in the Croatian Parliament, I would like to stress that a month ago, before the break, we made it impossible to conduct proceedings against his colleagues, Pernar, on the private case of Mr. Damir Ježić, because he sought to remove the immunity of Mr. Pernar because he had slandered Mr. Jezić, and he was rudely defamed that he was guilty of causing the tragedy in the car accident. As parliamentary representatives led by current practice, we did not remove the immunity of colleagues to Pernar but very soon after the debate in the Parliament, Croatian police found that Mr Jezic did not participate in this a car accident. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] What did we accomplish that way? Is that how Mr. Pernar apologized to Mr. Jezic? Did we, as advocates, do the right thing for us to do is to evaluate and take care of each future situation? [[/The Intruder President: Thank Representative Bačić. Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24508	Thank you. Before we move on to the next session, I'll warn you of a few things. On more than one occasion, as President of the Parliament, I said in the Croatian Parliament and in front of the media that I would allow for a certain time in which parliamentary representatives can meet, especially those who are new to the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I think that time's up. I think three months is quite enough that everyone can read the Rules of Procedure absolutely and know what rights and obligations he has. As far as the law is concerned, I agree with my colleague Pernar, who has stated that he has the right for 2 minutes as well as everyone else in the assembly to speak and so that he can speak for 10 minutes at the moment when a topic is discussed, but also in the Rules of Procedure it clearly states that there is no possibility of moving away from the topic, away from the topic if allowed he will turn the entire debate into completely useless and not constructive at all. During Friday's debate, it was not about whether a crime was committed and the whole debate being held in a way that tried to define whether someone committed a crime or not. Friday's debate was supposed to be whether, on the basis of an article in some media, immunity to the parliamentary representative would be removed on the basis of some of the charges. Everything else is a distance from the subject. Whether the chairman will allow mild freedom at that time to describe the context if it is appropriate why not. But if this debate will be conducted in a way that each of the 151 parliamentary representatives will use their two minutes for whatever they want, then try to imagine, and colleague Pernar once upon a time quoted Mr. Orwell as saying in his presentation what this debate would turn into. The chairman is in charge of the debate being constructive, to stick to the Rules of Procedure. And what I can promise you I'll stick to the Rules of Procedure and that's for sure. You'll have two minutes anyway, but you won't have the opportunity to say whatever you want, no matter what the subject is. You are as parliamentary representatives invited to stick to the topic and to participate constructively, so you are in the Croatian Assembly and to preserve the dignity and image of this institution. If you want protests, if you want exhibitionism is no problem. There's an appropriate place for all of this. Exibitionism is not a place in the Croatian Parliament. We're moving on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-25-0.u24509	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. You violated the Rules of Procedure in that part of the subject. I mean, except there's no replicating after the break, so that's number one, I honestly think it's pretty inappropriate for you to lecture us all here, even for us who are new to this House. Because as you said, there was plenty of time to study the Rules of Procedure. Well, that's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
