ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38579	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, I am asking for a break of 10 minutes to talk after the break about the latest court practice and about the initiative that will soon have to do with the adoption of certain laws, which will address non-legislities in bank operations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38580	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Vardo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38581	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss business in the foster home of disabled people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38582	Thank you. Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38583	Thank you very much, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club MOST, 10 minutes on the thermal power plant on Peru, i.e. The project "Vis Viva" involving the husband of the announced foreign minister Mirjana Pejcinovic Buric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38584	All right, are there any more reported? If he doesn't break by 9.45. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] It is the first club to represent the Living Wall and SNAGA fellow Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38586	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The case-law based on the collective judicial verdict in the Franak case is rolling according to its final decision. We already have a dozen judicial rulings, all in favour of the debtors, but one of the most important verdicts is the County Court in Osijek, which is determined that the damaged debtor must be returned to all the overpaid interest, so the sum of the amount since the beginning of the bank's illegal change in interest rate. In other words, the County Court in Osijek rejected the bank's appeal, rejected the bank's objections to limitations and the statutes of limitations in a specific case. However, there is a problem in all this, and the problem is that some other county court can still rule differently. So because county courts in this time-to-day period which is likely to be next and some different judgments, it is possible that they will also accept the objections of the outdated bank The Supreme Court should certainly at its session, and I do not prejudge anything that it will decide, therefore, that the Supreme Court should decide at its session whether there is a limitation of claims in the private processes conducted on the basis of a collective judicial verdict or that antiquity of claims does not exist. It is also important to note that there is a whole series of judgments for overpaid interest after the conversion of CHF credit, even in this respect no known case law. Based on everything I've said, I'm going to forward the proposals of two laws to all the representatives' clubs at the end of this week. One law solves the problem of fixed interest margins which are illegal in almost all loans agreed before 2013, and another law would allow for the non-judicial return of overpaid interest to all damaged debtors who have over 100 thousand. There are currently about three thousand court proceedings, and unfortunately, out of over a hundred thousand possible court proceedings, only three thousand are being conducted. For what? Of course, people who are damaged by the illegal behaviour of banks are a little afraid of the judiciary. However, we can see that the judicial authority is in place and that the judicial authority after the case law has been established on the basis of a collective judicial verdict is doing its job properly. However, this job is relatively slow. It would be a lot faster if we let the debtors solve their problems out of court. So I repeat, at the end of the week, I'm going to send all the club MPs bill proposals and I'm going to ask all those who support such a law to sign my support, so after a week, I'm going to walk around the Parliament looking for your support in the form of signatures, and I hope to collect enough signatures that these laws can be sent into emergency procedures. I believe that's possible. All opposition supports me in this, and I expect the HDZ to support me because it is the laws that are in the interest of Croatian citizens, which are based on the law, which are based on the rule of law, which are based on a collective judicial verdict, which are based at the end of the day and on the final judgments in private court proceedings. I note that Hungary has already done so, that Hungary has received an answer from the EU court to the previous question that it may do so, therefore we may, and we must, and we must do so, above all, to prevent some kind of age because people are still waiting to stabilise the case law. In this regard, I'm going to have a press conference today where I'm going to introduce the public to the whole situation. I expect your cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38587	The second debate is the esteemed colleague, Recajmir Varda, on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity, Reformists and Independent Representatives and SMSH.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38588	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I would like to remind you that in my current class, I have asked the Prime Minister a question about decentralisation of social care. This was the subject of my question, and I think that I did not know about field research carried out in relation to the fostering of disabled persons, that at that moment the Prime Minister replied to me that it is important that the decentralisation process strengthens the competences of lower local communities and regional units in social activity and that this is one of the objectives of the strategy. I trust the Prime Minister that in this respect the Government will also propose amendments to the law in a way that social services are available to all citizens who are in need and who are at the same level, no matter where they live. This means that it should link not only the state level but also the county level, the city level and precisely define powers and responsibilities, as well as the founding rights. Namely field research conducted by the team of employees of the study centre of social work, professor of science Marko Buljevac, professor of science Marina Milić Babić and prof. dr. Zdravka Leutar, in collaboration with the Ombudsman for people with disabilities Mrs Anko Slonjak, showed the following. The foster parents get up to 2,300 kunas, they put money in their pocket, and the public brutally scribbles, beats them, starves them, and makes hard work. That's what field research has shown me not to go further into details. I think we need to talk to this decentralisation as soon as possible. Of course, I do not claim that all foster parents, that all foster parents act in this way because 1581 foster families operate in Croatia and it would be unfair to say that they are all of them. The authors of the study met a number of families where people with disabilities truly live quality lives and are fully involved in the life of the family in which they are located, satisfying food, provide adequate health care and respect for their human rights. But the results also showed devastating results that hundreds of people suffer verbal and physical violence daily. The most common thing is people with mental and intellectual difficulties who cannot fight for their rights. So some foster parents made it a business without having any social feelings for these people. I therefore propose that this research carried out by the Faculty of Social Labour Study become a document of the competent ministry, i.e. Minister Murganic as one of the signposts in the work and organisation of the Social Care Centre but especially the supervisory service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38589	Thank you, colleague Varda. The next representative is Miro Bulj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38590	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, on many occasions I spoke from this pay phone about the Vis Viva project, which includes harmful gas, i.e. The thermal power plant in Peru, on the river Cetina, which is both inconsistencies and unsustainable and environmentally unacceptable in this area. Vis Viva is a private project that has invested more than 5m euros so far. It is owned by the project companies MCC of the EXCLUSIVE NEKRETNINA and the Vrdov Reversible Hydropower Plant. Zoran Buric, the director of MCC, who is one of the project holders, said in an interview with Nacional in the middle of last year that the project is supported by numerous state-owned companies and agencies. The project was supported, he also claimed, by the State Office for State Property, which is willing to leave the right to use state land, as almost half of the land on which an electricity facility will be built as part of a state-owned project. He said Viv Viva should become a project of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. Zoran Burić is not only the director of AmCham, exclusive real estate, but also the company Vrdovo Reversible Power Plant, i.e. two companies dealing with electricity production in the Cetin region, photovoltaic power plant... And the Lower Beatles photovoltaic power plant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Marija Pejcinović Buric, current secretary of state, former adviser to Serbian Prime Minister Dacic or small Sloba, according to today's prime minister and future foreign minister, is the wife of Mr Zoran Buric and according to her property card, it is evident that her husband owns 50% of the company's shares of MCC EXCLUSIVE NEKRETNINE while in Vrdo's reversible hydropower plant she owns 100%. The transfer of ownership has not been carried out in both companies. She claims she doesn't have a business stake in companies. Before.../The speaker is understood./... last year appointed State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, this European Science Master has worked as an expert advisor for European policies, including EU funding projects. In January this year, it was carried out that the Vis Viva project is in consideration of the CNB and the European Investment Bank for financing from the European Fund for Strategic Investments and we see that the Vis Viva project is in strategic projects according to Buric. It is also stressed that it is the only fully Croatian project published on the European project investment portal. Construction of a gas station on Peruci has been fought for thousands of inhabitants of the Cetina region for months against construction. It is considered an ecocid as well as numerous experts because Peru Lake is the largest pool of drinking water in Europe and the river Cetina plum is one of the cleanest and largest in Croatia and Europe. Physicist Mislav Cvitkovic for collecting with numerous other petitions and protests 10,000 signatures. A parallel petition was also sent to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to stop the ecocid, which is obvious and means lobbyed by the future foreign minister and her husband. Croatia is a country that really has huge potential for renewable energy sources but we also have drinking resources, drinking water where it is in Dalmatia and in the karst area we must preserve it. And on this occasion I am sending a message to everyone lobbying to build a thermopower plant along with the largest lake of drinking water that will not succeed, and even if they had a foreign minister, the President of the European Council, that the people of Sinj, the Cetina region and Dalmatia, will not allow them to destroy it, and that is our wealth, that is what will keep our children from using because we have no right to destroy it because of future generations. A message to all those who wish to destroy what is most holy, gentlemen, you will not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38591	Before we move on to the replicas, the esteemed representative of the bush begged for a break if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38592	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break from the threats sent to me on a phone call for a break from my colleague Bulj this morning around the Cetina thermal power plant.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38593	It doesn't make much sense to me why to you, not to him when he is. But fine, but in any case, of course, of course we'll take a break. I'll see you at 12.10. It's 11:00.55. CONTINUED AFTER THE MEETING AT 12.10 Here's a colleague and colleague's break has expired, so I'll ask on behalf of the club Most Independent Lists, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38595	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. After a break we have a colleague Bulj, this morning about a project of a thermal power plant in Cetina, which pushes the husband of the new minister Marija Pejcinović Buric, meaning who owns essentially two companies that are pushing this harmful project against which the people of the entire Cetina region stood up and against whom 10000 signatures were collected, I have just received a phone call from Ivan Poparič Kane, I do not know the man, the man is allegedly, here is told me by my colleague Bulj from Sinj, one of the main advocates and lobbyists of that harmful project in which I warned me to tell my colleague Bulu to stop speaking against the project otherwise, if he is caught that he will not know whether he is walking forward or going back. He also said that he would come up with documentation about his colleague Bul and his war route, i.e. diagnosis of PTSD, i said there was no problem, to present everything and that I would report this phone call to the police and this is why I called for a break, due to the threat of my colleague, and apparently, my colleague Bulj hit the right target this morning with a break, in a new foreign minister, who is the former Serbian prime minister, means the Serbian diameter of Dacic, as said counterpart Bulj small Slobe, who apparently has an interest, or her husband in this harmful project, and these lobbyes that are pushing that thermoelectric power plant in Cetina, which will endanger the entire Cetisnki end, the sources of drinking water are obviously too strong and here have even so much power to call parliamentary representatives and threaten them for their exposure to the Croatian Parliament. So here I expect Ivan Poparić Khan to be brought in, because of the threat of a parliamentary representative, here for at least five days as they brought in those who insulted our state secretary, Janica Kostelic, although the representative of Bulju does not need any protection, I expect that these threats will give him some kind of protection. He's already pointing out that he doesn't need it, but I think this has gone too far, because of what we're saying here in the Croatian Parliament, that he has so much courage to call the parliamentary representatives, to threaten them, to tell them that they will, that they won't know whether they are moving forward or going back, so I think that fellow Bulj just keep this up, you are the only hope for this Croatia and the only representative who stands without fear of all the harmful projects and exposes essentially these interesting lobbies that are clearly connected to the Government of the Republic, that is now with this new minister who will be proposed here in the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u38596	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40186	We're moving on to the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 100. The draft law shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution, Article 171. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You have received the proposal by dispatching the Parliament, this law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure, discussed by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economy, you received reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you are, Natasha Mikush Zigman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40187	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, please allow me to present the final draft law which was discussed in this esteemed House on 16 March this year, and the conclusion on the adoption of the bill was adopted after the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on 17 September 2014 and shall apply from 1 July 2016. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all EU Member States. Why was the same regulation necessary? In fact, increasing the mobility of citizens and businesses in the EU's internal market, together with rapid technological development, leads to an increasingly pronounced need for secure and reliable cross-border online, or digital services. Although the regulatory framework at EU level on electronic signature was therefore established, i.e. in force before the adoption of this Regulation, there was no specific and uniform framework for mutual recognition and for the acceptance of e-identification or for the use of so-called. a trust service such as electronic stamp, electronic stamp, long-term storage and archiving of signatures or e-services recommended delivery of documents. Therefore, the aim of the eIDAS Regulation was to remove existing barriers, i.e. obstacles to the cross-border use of digital technology, to ensure that access to cross-border online services offered by Member States is capable of secure electronic identification. The second objective is to set up a general legal framework for the use of so-called ‘the’. a trust service. What I would like to mention here is that precisely electronic services are a prerequisite for the use of a wide range of electronic interactions that we are already applying or using as e-banking, e-Government or e-Health services. This Implementing Law, therefore, lays down the framework for the full application of the provisions of the EIDAS Regulation, by the final proposal for a law that we present today, in order to establish the bodies responsible for the implementation of the Regulation and for the tasks of the same bodies. It is primarily the Ministry of Administration responsible for the field of electronic identification, and the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts responsible for trust services. The Agency responsible for the lending of bodies, which assess the conformity of trust service providers, is also designated, in this case, the Croatian Credit Agency. The rights, obligations and responsibilities of users and trust service providers shall be established and infringements of the anti-eIDAS Regulation shall finally be laid down. Let me show in a few words just what it looks like in practice, or how it is practically applied so-called. Trust services. At this moment in Croatia are authorised trust providers such as FINA, AKD, or Zagrebačka Banka, so they are accredited to provide such services. In practice, this means that FINA has the power to issue certificates for electronic signatures and stamps, for citizens and business entities, that means that the use of such a certificate by entrepreneurs can provide annual tax reports, sign electronic accounts, access to various electronic services such as e-tax, e-carina, e-HZZO, e-HZMO, etc. AKD, for example. a qualified certificate for electronic signatures and using an electronic identity card, a natural person may sign electronic forms, may access various electronic services, services such as e-Citizens, etc. This law, therefore the final draft law in relation to the text of the draft law which was in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, has experienced less technical developments in Article 20, which was proposed by the Committee on Law. In the first reading, the law supported 119 MPs, and two MPs were abstentions. I thank you for your attention and thank you in advance for your support in adopting this final proposal for the Law implementing the eIDAS Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40188	We have one replica, Comrade Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40189	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. So we're back here today having a regulation. So for the sake of the Croatian public, I would like to say that we actually have nothing to discuss. The regulation of the European Parliament literally means that we must take it without debate, that this is really just one translation job and that in fact, such a law as we have received here in the Croatian Parliament from word to word is prescribed from all 27 EU member states. Therefore, you call on us to accept this law as if we could stand up to it. So we don't really have what to choose, we have to accept it we won't. The moment we joined the EU, so we accepted such rules of the game, gave up part of our sovereignty, and I want the Croatian public to know it. And that's exactly one of the reasons why here today none of the MPs are actually going to discuss this law. As you can see, no one but the representatives of the HDZ Club signed up. I also don't understand what we could change about this regulation. As you said, it has already been used in Croatia for a year, so we are now retroactively confirming something already in place. So here she is, she's been in office for a year. So we can accept, not accept, it is being implemented and it is the current state of Croatian membership in the EU. Here's just for more specific information to the public, I had a need to say this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40190	Answer to the replica State Secretary Natasha Mikush Zigman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40191	Thank you very much. I would like to clarify, therefore, that the regulation is indeed applicable from the date on which it entered into force in Croatia as well as in other EU Member States. However, what we are doing with this law is thus establishing national competences for the implementation of certain specific provisions of this Regulation, we are laying down infringement provisions in the event that they do not, in the event that they do not, take action against that regulation and the surveillance procedure. So that's what's not said in that way prescribed in the regulation. And we owe it to our national system in this way to regulate the legal framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40192	Thank you. We're moving on to club debates. I see that there are no representatives of the working bodies or vice-presidents of the Committee on Legislatives, nor the chairman of the Committee on Economy, so there is no need to ask whether they want to take the floor, so we move on to a debate on clubs. The first is the Club of HDZ Representatives, distinguished colleague Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40193	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state. Well, before us is the final bill of law, which is almost identical to the bill in the first reading. And if we remember the debate in the first reading, then we can only conclude that during the debate, there were no proposals, objections or any initiatives that any article of the law would change the exact opposite. In fact, all discussers supported the rapid application of the law itself, i.e. in a way they were asked to bring the regulation and the implementing law to life as soon as possible and to feel the effects of the implementation of this Regulation and in the area of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. Therefore, at first I can say that the HDZ Club will, of course, support this final bill. Well, maybe just a little bit about the regulation. It is true that we apply the regulation itself and that we do not discuss it, because as it has been adopted it is fully applied and no country discusses it. However, the implementing law itself did not write anything that would be in any way contrary or that would alter the articles of the provisions, but rather the opposite. What is required of the provision requires that the regulation be applied and that only a single country prescribes in which it will implement it, or who will be in charge of the implementation of any part, or which will be penalties for non-implementation. This is prescribed by the Implementing Law. And now that we see little how the implementing law is written and how we are discussing it, then almost all of us could agree together that all these implementing laws concerning EU regulations could be adopted by an urgent procedure, as they would thus avoid that we do not have too much to discuss in the final draft of the law. If we look at the regulation itself, then the Regulation lays down the conditions under which Member States recognise the means of electronic identification of natural legal persons covered by the notified electronic identification system of natural legal persons covered by the notified electronic identification system of another Member State. Rules for trust services shall be laid down in particular for electronic transactions, i.e. the legal framework for electronic signatures, electronic stamps, electronic time stamps, electronic documents, electronic, recommended delivery services and certified network services shall be established. Cross-border electronic digital transactions through the application of the Regulation are becoming safer and easier to use on the Digital Single Market of Europe. The aim of the Regulation is to increase trust in electronic transactions on the internal market by providing a common basis for secure electronic interaction between citizens, legal persons and public authorities by increasing the effectiveness of public and private online services, electronic business and electronic trade in the Union. As we know, it shall apply from 1 July, and the adoption of this Implementing Law and the repeal of the Directive, and the consequent and abolition of the Law on electronic signature and of sublegal acts, will allow for legal certainty and closer determination of the roles of the participants, i.e. the authorities responsible for the implementation, supervision and accreditation, and the end of the penalties for infringements relating to the Regulation. The Regulation and this implementing law are a prerequisite for establishing a single digital market and simplifying business processes, i.e. the conduct of business processes without paper, so they allow the implementation of electronic procedures and transactions replacing traditional administrative procedures. The entry into force of the law, ensuring a higher level of security of electronic transactions, and I am sure that it will lead to an increase in the efficiency of business processes, to reduce the operational costs of business and to enable those who use such systems to actually take precedence over the EU's common internal market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40194	Thank you. We have one replica, colleague Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40195	Thank you, Mr. President. One short replica. In fact, this law is actually a necessary and positive law, definitely and would not agree with my colleague Bunjec at all, I think that this is an example of the very positive law that we need, in order that even the electronic state, electronic communication is a service and in the country, and it is regulated in principle by this whole game and the whole rules at EU level. And in order for something to talk to each other, of course they have to speak the same language, by the same rules, so like the last time we talked about this law, I welcome his adoption in the first reading we talked about and I think this is definitely a positive thing. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40196	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40197	Well, I don't think Mr. Bunjac really followed the debate that was at the first reading, because everyone we discussed, as you said, we actually commended and really wanted it to be applied as soon as possible and that the effects of the application actually took place as soon as possible in Croatia and that we all benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40198	This concludes the debate on this point, we will vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) No 910/2014. The European Parliament and the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 100. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer accepted the amendment of the Committee. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am therefore voting on the final draft law. Please vote. I find that, unanimously with 117 votes, the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation has been adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40201	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Therefore, before you there is a law establishing the competent authorities and this is the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, the Ministry of Finance, the Customs Administration and the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, each within the framework of its prescribed section and for the implementation of this Regulation, for administrative inspection, and for infringement provisions. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The Regulation prescribes the treatment of fluorinated greenhouse gases during their life cycle, from production to disposal to end of use. It refers to hydrocarbons most commonly used as working substances in cooling and air conditioning devices and heat cranes, drinking substances for insulation materials, anti-fire systems and fire extinguishers, as well as solvents, and substances in high voltage circuits. The Croatian Parliament adopted the draft law implementing this Regulation, held at the third session held on 3 March 2017 in the first reading, and sent comments to the applicant, proposals and opinions to the debate in order to prepare the final draft law. In accordance with the comments of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature and the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament, certain articles have been developed in the final draft of the law, and no-technically modified the whole law for better clarity and transparency. There were no objections to the bill during the debate in the Croatian Parliament that were not accepted. We draw attention to the provision of Article 18 of this Act, which prescribes a degree of law. In view of the fact that, in accordance with Article 49, paragraph 1 of the single methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament cannot be amended, the second regulation may be complemented. It is necessary that this law enters into force at the same time as the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Air Protection. Taking into account all of the above, the need to adopt this law is seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40202	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, Vice President Davor Vlaovic, want to take the floor? No, I don't. The president of the Nature Environment Committee, Gordan Maras, is gone. So I'm opening a debate. The first registered Club of Representatives of MOSTA Independent Lists, a respected colleague, Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40203	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues, I welcome you all. Therefore, the Law implementing the regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases, to explain a little to colleagues and citizens, is about compounds of fluorinated hydrocarbons used as working substances in cooling devices, heat cranes. We've heard both the promoter and the fire extinguishers, or certain materials. This work material appeared after we were all together in the Monteral Agreement 87' exchange of freones known, these are chloroflouro carbons known for the potential of ozone destruction and ozone problem, and these compounds have been in use for decades now, therefore as a replacement substance. But the problem with these compounds is that they are potent in terms of global warming, i.e. they have a great potential for global warming, so we're practically going through the same procedure as with working substances that we gradually replaced and successfully replaced at global level, and now they're doing it with fluent hydrocarbons that are increasingly widely used in these devices. The release of these substances is not allowed, an increase in concentration in the atmosphere has been observed because these substances are extremely persistent, they can practically not be destroyed in the troposphere but only under high radiation or intense radiation in the stratosphere. Therefore, all these efforts that have arrived so we are transferring to the regulation European, are something that is necessary today to preserve the quality of the environment as much as possible. I therefore believe that there is nothing disputed here, or that Croatia must take over this regulation as soon as possible, or pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40204	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most to the presentation of the distinguished representative Dobrović, no one appeared in the replica, and we will move to the next club of representatives, which is the Club of HDZ Representatives on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Miro Totgergeli will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40205	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Well, here's what the regulation itself is saying, and we are, in fact, establishing the competent authorities, the tasks of the competent authorities, the administrative and inspection supervision and the infringement provisions in the implementation of this regulation, which the Commission adopted in April 2014. Therefore, for the implementation of the regulation and of this law, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of Finance, the Customs Administration and the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency are designated. Administrative supervision shall be carried out by the Ministry, and inspection supervision relating to the handling of... greenhouse gases or equipment and products contained in it shall be carried out by the environmental protection inspector. Control relating to the labelling of products containing fluorinated greenhouse gases shall be carried out by the market inspector and shall be carried out by the customs office of the Customs Administration. The law also prescribes criminal provisions. As I have pointed out in my first reading, I will only warn on Article 10, this was before Article 9 of the first proposal, so the treatment of fluorinated greenhouse gases, the treatment of devices and equipment containing or dependent on the treatment of these substances after the discontinuation of the use of the devices and equipment containing, the verification of the missing of these substances, the way in which these substances are collected, the recovery, the recovery and destruction of these substances, the amount of compensation to cover the costs, collection, recovery, recovery and destruction of these substances and the manner of calculating the costs of collection, recovery, recovery, recovery and destruction of these substances and the means of identifying the devices and equipment contained or dependent on them, the manner of reporting of those substances, and other issues related to this regulation and the deadline for the regulation of that Regulation are 12 months. So all those who do this job in any way, whether those who are installers or those who fix, install or sell, are actually placed on the market for them now until this regulation is passed over the next 12 months, practically nothing changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40206	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40207	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Totgergeli, in your debate you mentioned that this area is important for the Republic of Croatia and for me and for us in HSS we agree that this area needs to be regulated more precisely and to protect the environment and quality of life in the Republic of Croatia. And just when you mentioned that a particular area is a competent environmental inspection, that it has a customs duty of a certain jurisdiction has been observed on the ground, and they objected that we have been over-normised, which is unknown whose jurisdiction is so that from the economy the proposal to consider returning inspections under one roof within the State Inspectorate was then better results in supervision and control and faster reactions. What do you think about that, and here's the pitch saying that would be good? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40208	Thank you very much. Here's a response from the esteemed representative Mira Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40209	Well, it's an organization thing. At one point we thought it was better that all inspectors were in one place then again when specific actions should be taken in certain areas then it was transferred to each ministry to supervise and inspectorate from its area. It's hard for me to tell what's better. I think in the end, it comes down to the same people, or the same inspectors, and good surveillance is done if they're professional enough, if they're educated enough, and if they're consciously and responsibly doing their part of the job. And now that it's going to be under one or not, I'm still going to leave it to the people who are sitting in government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40210	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40211	Dear colleague. I listened to you, and I listened to the respected Dobrovic fellow of the Freons. We all know that the freon damages the ozone, we also know that our craftsmen who deal with these affairs are taking exams with the Freeons. But what's going on here? There's one interesting thing that happens is that people who lay down, their diplomas about laying down on the Freeons, are worth about three to five years. After five years, they have to go back and get the same certificates. So the question is, why double-deposit on the same freon, and as far as I know, freoni, is now the last iso-butan to be placed in refrigerators, air-conditioning and the rest, before that was a freon 410-202-134 and so I don't count those freones because I know that waist. But I don't understand why people and craftsmen have to pay for the lay, once they've laid down for those freones, then it's got to be, it's got to be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's got to be, it's gotta be, it's got to be, it's gotta be, it's gotta be, it's got to be, it's got to be, it's got to be, it's got to be, it's to be, it's to be, it's to be, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, However, the law makes them, or teachers who want to take money from craftsmen, which costs each craftsman about 3 to 5 thousand kunas. I don't think after one lay it should be more permanent, unless some new freon appears on the market. So all the people who doctored should confirm their doctorate every five years and know they're doctors. So are colleges and high school. However, if we lay down for these freons once, we no longer need to lay down and give money and interest to our craftsmen and our citizens who do this work. It's a question of freon and certainly you need to work by the rule and keep track of everything you get... I agree with that, but I don't agree that people have to take it every three to five years, get approval to work with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40212	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Mira Totgergelia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40213	Well a colleague may only when you say freon, you probably think of all the gases used in cooling and air conditioning devices but actually themselves freon, what the freon is really forbidden and as such not using the freon but now we use these florad greenhouse gases instead. The important difference between the freon and the floral greenhouse gases is that the freon destroys the ozone and these gases don't destroy it, but over time it was realized that they actually take the same high, they go far from the ground, or about 20km and there they create a greenhouse effect. So now it's no longer a problem that they're destroying the ozone, because we don't use the freon, so the freon can't destroy the ozone anymore, but now we have the greenhouse effect. ... But what's the intensity of the regulation itself is that you're actually also fluent in greenhouse gases somewhere by 2030 if, but maybe the Secretary of State will be better able to respond that the replacements with some replacement gases that won't then either destroy the ozone or create a greenhouse effect. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[No, no, let's not get off the bench.]] And as for the laying itself, in any case, there is a need to find a way for any craftsmen to not be able to function easily on the market and any coercion that comes to them creates a business problem and they need to find ways to keep them up to date with all the new scientific knowledge that we have, to be well educated and informed about what they are doing. And on the other hand, it doesn't cause them any financial damage practically in business. But I think it might be better for the secretary of state to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40214	Thank you very much. The following came to an individual debate with the esteemed representative Miro Bulj. I can't see him. He's losing his right to argue. And after him, a respected representative, Gordan Maras, appeared for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40215	Thank you, dear colleague Reiner. When we talk about this law, i.e. the standards that Croatia wants to respect and wants other EU member states to respect, so I would say the countries of the world respect our planet, i.e. avoiding global negative movements such as the warming of our entire planet. On this side, I must say that I am pleased that we are following the trend and we have all supported and supported this as representatives and on the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. But what I'd like to point out is that we need to be faster in the dynamics of accepting those standards. Because, for example, in this law, we can see how fast Europe, or Member States, react when it comes to environmental protection issues and how much we need to adapt to this. So this is the Law on the Implementation of the Regulation adopted on 16 April 2014. So 3 years have passed and simply can't be satisfied with the MP or as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia that so long as we have the final draft law in the Croatian Parliament and on such an important topic on which there is probably an absolute agreement between all the clubs of representatives and all the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. On this side, my request and my request to my colleagues from the administration, the ministry, that such laws be adopted more promptly and that we be more coordinated with the EU countries or with the European Commission dealing with this problem. I must say here that I am not satisfied that everyone in the world does not understand the needs of coordinated activity on environmental protection issues, especially the protection of our planet. As a representative and a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I must react that I am not happy to see big countries like the United States give up an agreement that their previous administration has accepted. And on that side, they show a lack of understanding for trends that unfortunately lead to global warming, which leads to us having to coordinate as a whole, I would say as a whole planet, or all the countries of the world, and that we have to participate to make as many of these trends as possible negatively change. We can't behave and it seems to me that the existing American administration is acting like there's going to be another generation or two on our planet and after that, who cares? On the other hand, I hope that the US withdrawal from the Paris Agreement will lead to a serious debate taking place again in the United States and that as most US citizens in all polls show, that the United States will return to this agreement in a way that will benefit all of us living on planet Earth, and once again I am saying that our administration should be more proactive and more effective in this regard, and we will all support these laws together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40216	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40217	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. Here's just a few words on this subject, so the general public knows what they're talking about. Planet Earth is threatened with many environmental problems, some are connected to the atmosphere, here we mention actually two ecological problems, one is a problem of greenhouse effect, and it's global warming., that is, there is a whole series of gases for some we know, very often we mention them that is CO gas, carbon monoxide, CO2, meaning quite a large molecule, and in recent times we have a problem with these folated greenhouse gases, which are also large molecules, which are held in the upper layer of the troposphere, i.e. the lower layer of stratosphere, and thus raise global temperature. The global temperature, you know, is a problem because it's proportional to the rise in global temperature, rises and the level of the world's ocean, the world's seas, so we have a threat to coastal areas across our planet. The other environmental problem mentioned here is the problem of ozone holes. A little while ago, he was a colleague, I don't know who mentioned it anymore, he mentioned the problem of ozone holes, he was connected to cooling devices once, fortunately with us in Croatia, in the EU, these gases, so-called gasses. Freeons or tetrachlor hydrocarbons are no longer used, unfortunately, are still being used in many Third World countries, so we are no longer talking about ozone holes that are less and less today than we are talking about greenhouse gases, so here is a clear explanation for all those who listen to this, what we're talking about today. So we're talking about preventing the rise of global temperature, or preventing the rise of the world's ocean level, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40218	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Reverend Mario Šiljeg, will say a few words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, I would like to thank all the MPs and MPs who participated in the debate. So here's what I'd like to point out as an answer to the question of my colleagues, Vlaovic, so why do exams have to be reflected every five years, right, to work with chemicals like this? So here, first of all, this is about dangerous chemicals, so in Croatia as a result of EU legislation we have an obligation to and responsible persons, all persons working with dangerous chemicals have an obligation to take every 5 years exam at the Croatian Toxicology Institute for the work with such chemicals. Why am I saying that? This also comes from here in this law, so I'm saying this because chemical technology is making so much progress every few years that every few years they use less and less dangerous chemicals, there are fewer and fewer of them in our devices that we talked about, mentioned by fellow Dobrović, so that because of these technological advances that go towards completely eliminating the use of these chemicals, it takes, of course, repairers, to train them regularly to be prepared and to take certain safety measures in working with such chemicals, here and there I had a need to explain a little about the need to pass professional exams over a certain period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40220	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ivan Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40221	Dearly beloved, I'd like to ask you when you say after five years, since I'm in the field and I know the problem, very well, but they don't change them so quickly, they don't actually change anything, and after five years you go to bed. I don't see the reasons, you know well if you're dealing with it, that it's come isobotan in the air conditioning and refrigerators, it used to be 200, 250 grams in one refrigerator small, now it's 30, 40 grams isobotane. No matter what any Freon means for the next five years to be on the market, new one, you will ask the same craftsmen to do the same and you will take their money. We ask if it's moral, is it fair, is it necessary? It's not one, not the other, not the third. I can understand you because I can understand the environment if it's some new freon that's come to the market that the craftsmen don't know, and you know well that they know very well the Freeons, who deals with the Freeons, don't have any needs, they could even teach to one of the lecturers, from practice, from experience, but irrelevant. When the new freon comes, then warn and ask the craftsmen to lay down for that freon, let's not put them three times in five years, in 15 years for the same thing. And take the craftsmen's money. That's the question I ask you, and what are they doing? He works for the teachers to go ahead, take instructions, take money from a craftsman who's so loaded from all sides. Who can barely breathe. I set myself up as a craftsman, I know what it is to be, I know what to pay for, and I know what to take. Here's to the Parliament today when I'm sitting and getting paid, and I didn't deserve that much, and neither do we who sit in institutions of some kind. And this same craftsman today has to go and set up these air-conditioning buildings, clean up. Here's even one in the Parliament suggested that someone clean them up because they're already seeing on all sides a little dirty to get better evaporation and better cool us off. But okay. Therefore, it is a warning of my from here from the bench of the Parliament to the people if it is new... came certainly needy, and these old ones who laid that thing done and solved and should not lay down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's my opinion. Well, you work that way so we don't borrow our craftsmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40222	Thank you very much. With that I would conclude a debate on this point and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40223	The final draft law implementing Regulation No 517/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on florified greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation No 842/2006. Second reading P.Z.E. No. 88. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, the Law implementing Regulation No 517/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on florified greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation No 842/2006 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40224	Now we will move on to - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 93. The draft law shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution, Article 171. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the motion for an act by dispatching the Parliament. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Mario Šiljeg, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40225	Vice President, honourable parliamentary deputies and MPs. Therefore, the Air Protection Act came into force in 2011 and according to its structure in line with the provisions of the EU Directive constitutes a framework law. In order to bring national legislation into line with the acquis adopted by the end of 2013. The Croatian Parliament adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, which entered into force in 2014. However, given that, in the period since the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the EU Air Protection Act, five new air quality management directives and three Commission Implementing Regulation on climate protection, it was necessary to supplement the obligations arising from the new EU regulation. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act shall ensure that competent authorities and the tasks of the competent authorities, administrative inspection control are duly established, and the infringement provisions for the direct implementation of EU acts shall be laid down. In addition, there is a clear and inaccuracies to the implementation of the existing law, with a view to more effective and transparent application of the legislative framework set up. The draft law in the first reading was held at the third session of the Croatian Parliament on 3.3.2017. The conclusion of the Croatian Parliament adopted the text of the bill and addressed to the Ministry of Environment and Energy to prepare the final proposal for the law. In accordance with the provisions of the Law Committee of the Croatian Parliament, the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Protection was completed in a nomotechnical sense. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing this law, in accordance with the opinions of the Authority of the State Administration, has also made adjustments to certain articles and added five new articles. Perhaps most importantly, Article 14 is complemented by the provisions of the relevant EU Directive on the restriction of emissions of pollutants to air and medium-sized storage devices in such a way as to define the obligations to respect stricter limits for medium-sized storage and medium-sized gas turbines if the need exists and provided that the application of such limit values will effectively contribute to a significant improvement in air quality. We note that there were no proposals and opinions on the draft laws that were not adopted. The adoption of the bill will contribute to significant harmonisation with the EU's regulatory acquis in the area of air protection, ozone layer protection and climate change mitigation. And the process will continue with the adoption of implementing rules and documents. It will also remove the inaccuracies and inaccuracies in the existing legislative framework observed in the previous period with a view to more effective, transparent application of the established legislative framework, and improve the institutional conditions for implementing climate and ozone protection obligations. In addition, the fee for opening and keeping accounts in the Union registry will be abolished in accordance with the reform measures for reducing and abolishing non-taxable duties, and the inspection system will be improved. In order to implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and taking into account all of the above considerations, the need to adopt this law is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40226	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the 15th session held on 7 June 2017, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act submitted to the Parliament by the Government of Croatia by Act of 25 May 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure discussed the proposed law as the home working body. In his opening statement, as is now the proposaler's representative, he pointed out that the proposed law, which is in line with the first reading of the nomotechnically completed, is in line with the EU acquis in the area of air protection, ozone layer and climate change mitigation. During the period since the adoption of the EU Air Protection Act, it has adopted a series of new regulations that regulate the monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions, policies and measures to reduce them, and adaptation to climate change, the establishment and application of the Union register for monitoring the emission trading system, the methodology for effective monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions at national level, and the obligation to accreditation of the verifier that verifys the reports of the plant operator or aircraft operator in the framework of the greenhouse gas emission trading system. With regard to substances that damage the ozone layer, fluorinated greenhouse gases, the EU has adopted a number of new regulations, which regulate the reduction of the elimination of the consumption substance that damages the ozone layer of fluorinated greenhouse gases, and in this part there is also a harmonisation of national legislation. After this opening argument, she discussed on the committee, the representatives on the impact of the purification system, the impact of the system, meaning, improved, control and in the future control of air pollution in the form of occasional pollution and at the end of the debate, after the discussion was conducted, the committee decided unanimously with 8 votes for, to propose to the City Assembly the adoption of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40228	Thank you very much. The vice-president of the Legislatives Committee, Honorary Representative Davor Vlaovic, also called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40229	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Legislatives at its session, held on 13 June 2017, discussed the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air Protection, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament, acting on 25 May 2017. You have determined the text of the final proposal of this law, that it contains a declaration of compliance of the final proposal, with the legal property of the EU, which results in the full compliance of this law with the provisions of the primary and secondary sources of EU law. The Legislative Committee unanimously supports the adoption of this law and submits amendments, two amendments to Article 21 and Article 52 to the final proposal. which are of nomotechnical nature, harmonising with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and we believe that the proposer should accept these two amendments and thus set up an integral part of the bill. We also highlighted the problem of air quality in Slavonski Brod and where the Secretary of State informed the Committee about the activities undertaken, that a new meeting was being prepared with the representatives of the BIH, where this problem would be updated again, of course we all expect this to be resolved faster and better, especially because of the citizens of Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40230	Thank you very much. I am now opening the debate and first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Slaven Dobrović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40231	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state, so the Law on Air Protection, that is, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements, is progress in a legitimate sense, so it comes back to us from the EU, which is the necessary steps that we need to put into our legal system to protect the environment. Here it concerns the atmosphere, therefore, the shielding of the air is the first niche, it concerns various contaminants and pollutants that we emit to the environment, then the ozone layer, the layer of stratosphere, which we are dealing with the second, and in the previous proposal it was also about it, even indirectly, and finally with potassium as one phenomenon, global warming, changes... i.e. systemic climate change, various effects of rising sea levels, changes in fallin intensity, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we are all under the influence of these phenomena that we see in the environment and I believe that Croatia is also obliged to introduce these necessary changes in its legislation, these changes will continue to be. What may be an opportunity to say, that it is expected and that the competent institutions in the Republic of Zagreb, so in the City of Zagreb, will react progressively in reporting certain incidents, so I hope that when the fires in the City of Zagreb, when plastics burn, we get a report on the content of carbon monoxide, particles... therefore, in the atmosphere rather than that it will be reported on the specific contaminants resulting from the incident. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, we support this proposal and there is no other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40232	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the next club representative, only a few colleagues asked me what the next points would be. Well, we'll start with the reports, and first it's going to be the annual report of the Croatian Agency for Small Innovation Innovation Agency for 2015, because many have expressed their desire to get rid of it, 15th year, we have a lot of reports, then 16th, but we have really 14th, I think we have some, so let's do them. Here it is, and now we would, now we have one replica of the course of exposure, the distinguished representative of Dobrović. Here's your Honorable representative, Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40233	Your Honor, Vice President. I'd like to ask you a question here what you know about, it's about the Air Protection Act, how we protect the air and the atmosphere. That's what we're discussing, and that's your theme. I would remind you here of something that happened in Zoran Milanovic's mandate when she worked for Energan in Babina Greda and said "Sunčica Lalić's plant on biomass with the highest level of environmental protection of 9.7 megawatts will warm up 15 hectares of greenhouses and a drought where 200 people will work." Those 200 people in those droughts have never worked in those plastics either. Since then, 700 people have left Babina Greda, and all the excess energy from that energy doesn't warm up either the plastics or the droughts, but our air, our atmosphere, and those famous ozone holes that make it up. So please say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40234	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40235	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Culey. This bio or biomass power plant is actually an ecultaneous example of non-constituent energy policy management because cogeneration allows this to be a technical solution for us to get a very high output, so electricity and heat are produced... can be 80, 90% and use which is excellent and today we should not have a different approach except for such. So it's a side of efficiency and here we're talking about the Air Protection Act where we're talking about measures to reduce emissions. So it's both important, this is at a source on the system that's more efficient, so it needs less fuel, less emissions, the other one is emission control. But let's get back to this power plant. The fact that there is no hot energy consummation there really draws attention to the fact that it is an absolutely ill-planned system, therefore it should not be allowed to build such a power plant, that it produces electricity, that it even feeds... for electricity from stimulating energy, and that there is no heat consumption which will say that all the heat generated that is necessarily generated goes into the atmosphere and warms up the atmosphere and naturally contributes to problems, rather than going to improve the system, so you have recognized it well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40236	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40237	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary. So before us is the Final Proposal of the Law, which further removes the perceived ambiguities and inaccuracies in implementing the existing law, in order to make more effective and transparent application of the legislative framework established in all three areas covered by this Air Protection Act, which is in the area of air protection, in the area of ozone layer protection and in the area of climate protection. It should be said that this law prescribes the adoption of a series of programming, planning and reporting documents on all kinds, thus allowing its full application and impact on air protection and ultimately protecting our lives, or human health. This is an opportunity to remind ourselves that climate change is the dominant global environmental problem in the 21st century. The effects of climate change are becoming increasingly visible and are reflected in a series of phenomena. The change in temperature, the amount of rainfall, the change in water resources, the rise in sea levels, the frequency of extreme meteorological opportunities, changes in the ecological system and biodiversity, agriculture, forestry and health problems, which ultimately results in major economic damages. Science predicts that these changes will be increasingly pronounced. Due to its geographical location, environmental and environmental specificities and economic orientation, the Republic of Croatia may be considered extremely sensitive to climate change. In this context, we must make additional efforts to reduce pressures and mitigate climate change, primarily by reducing the emissions of polluted substances into the air. Since addressing the problem of air pollution in the Republic of Croatia depends largely on reducing the emissions of pollutants in other countries, especially neighbouring countries, the Republic of Croatia is interested in the successful implementation of obligations under international contracts and cooperation with other countries. In this regard, welcome the efforts made to address known air pollution problems in Slavonski Brod. It is the problem that best speaks of the importance of this topic and the need to approach it with extreme responsibility and utmost attention. The HDZ Club supports the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40238	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Liposčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40239	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I want to take this opportunity and I would also like to stress the role of the forest in cleaning polluted air and oxygen production. First of all, cleaning the polluted air and relieving the greenhouse's effects are some of the generally useful functions of the forest, which we forget very often. Just today, when the development of industry and traffic is on the rise, air pollution is increasing with dust and other particles are constantly increasing, and the harmful particles are being kept in the treetops and the leaves are being absorbed. Especially useful are forests and plantations along roads due to the assimilation of a large amount of waste materials produced by cars and means of transport. Also through the process of photosynthesis, forests absorb carbon dioxide from the air and produce oxygen, thus easing the greenhouse effect. What I'm saying is that exactly the forests and seas are the largest oxygen producers, and we should also keep that in mind, and not only when I'm talking about their general useful functions on air protection and environmental protection but also when we think about the welfare of the common useful functions of the forest, as well as when we think about fees for common useful functions and that the compensation for them is not only considered as normal as a parafiscal imposition but as well as a stock in the preservation of the environment, a supply for the future and a supply for a cleaner environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40240	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40241	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, of course, we support the adoption and adoption of the Law on Air Protection, which should be another tool in air quality control in protecting the quality of life of all our citizens. How important this is the topic and the important law also says that 350 thousand premature deaths in Europe are recorded every year due to polluted air. Almost a third of Europe's inhabitants are exposed to polluted air. A new European Environment Agency report shows that many parts of Europe have problems with high external concentrations of pollutants. These contaminants, except for many premature deaths each year, also generate additional costs to health care and millions of lost working days. In addition to health problems, polluted air causes significantly more damage to ecosystems in agricultural cultures, modern materials and cultural heritage. Air protection in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the roof law, the Environmental Protection Act and the Air Protection Act and by a series of implementing rules adopted under those acts or laws. They regulate the main areas of protection and air, monitoring, evaluation, air quality reporting, reduction prevention, air pollution, emission limit values by polluting substances from fixed sources, monitoring emissions, requirements for technical devices and fuel, the elimination of the consumption of substances that pollute the ozone layer, and mitigation and adaptation to climate change. During the period since the adoption of the EU Air Protection Act, a number of new regulations have been adopted. And we should implement these provisions and directives in national legislation, and therefore we are passing this law. All that sounds nice, we're bringing in new regulations to raise air quality, great. And we at HSS support them, of course. We support everything that goes in the direction of increasing the quality of life of our citizens and we already have my dear ones and regulations that we do not adhere to. How much of this news do you think my people of Slavonski Brod will experience, who, like birds on the branch, know that, have the worst air in the Republic of Croatia? Do we mock him when we speak there will be new meetings, new acts, new acts. Slavonski Brod is practically the only city in Croatia that has continuous overruns of sulphur dioxide levels, the limit value is 7 and in Slavonski Brod it can prevent even 30. In 2015 alone, the limit values of floating particles were exceeded more than 110 times, which is more than 12 times the permitted limit. And the total number of excesses for that year for all harmful substances was daily. In the first month and a half of this year alone, the daily limit value of floating particles PM10 in the observed period has been exceeded 28 times and according to the regulation must not be exceeded more than 35 times over the year and we have in the month and a half 28 times. There are studies that say that virtually every particle exposure for a certain number of days in a large population leads to an increase in mortality. The Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Institute of Public Health of the Brod-Posavina County and partners are conducting research on the improvement of the citizens of Slavonski Brod and its surroundings. And unfortunately for that reason, I point out this problem that the crude mortality rate of total cancer for our county was 332.3 cases to 100,000, which points to the conclusion that the crude rate of total cancer mortality in Brod-Posavina County is higher than the rates in the Republic of Croatia. It also worries that the rate for men in Brod-Posavina County was 699 and the standardised incidence rate for men in the Republic of Croatia is 551. A case in the town of Slavonski Brod has probably been diagnosed today, a daily situation. And the secretary of state said on the Legislatives Committee that a new meeting with Bosnia and Herzegovina is being prepared that this topic is trying to be resolved, but citizens of the town of Slavonski Brod have been waiting for it for 8 years. And on their behalf I appeal to all of you and us to do something as soon as possible because we still have to fight for clean air both in Slavonski Brod and in Sisak and here in Zagreb but I think the town of Slavonski Brod and citizens of Slavonski Brod deserve more attention and a faster reaction from us and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40242	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40243	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague, yes, the European directives are being given to us here in Parliament and, of course, that this legal framework is fine, that this should be supported. However, today when they are pushed, such as the Peruća thermal power plant where the exhaust emissions will be in a 760kg of chimneys are 110m high, the amount of CO2 of 145 tonnes per hour, so we push that as we support the EU's legal frameworks here to protect the air. So, at this point, it means, interesting lobbies, because of course that the participation of little Sloba's advisor and her husband are very important and these lobbies are trying to kill all these laws, there is no sustainable development, there is no air conservation in both your county and my county of Cetina region, where the largest pool of drinking water in Europe is. And in this place we need to build a power plant, a thermal power plant, which is 760 kilos per second of exhaust gas, and 145 tons of CO2 per hour, so the thread is protected, secretaries, our air, and they don't care about these interesting lobbys, but it's nice to hear, here's the European directive, aligning with EU legislation, in fact it's all a lie and deception, and these laws, we can freely tear them apart because they don't really respect them, we don't apply them. The interesting lobbies have surpassed the future of our children, because what neither the Turks nor the fascists, the Nazis, the communists are clearly doing interesting lobbys now because they are not at all interested in the future of the Croatian state and sustainable development, which we have a perspective, but exclusively their interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40244	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40245	Thank you, Vice President. So, colleagues Bulj, and you and I agree that every new investment that will contribute to the development of rural areas must be protected and the environment, air, water, soil, from all polluting substances and, of course, we welcome any new investment that will contribute to the development of rural areas, but that, I agree with you, every investment must be accompanied by those ecological standards that the investment must satisfy, the opinion of the local population of units of local and regional self-government should also be respected, and I agree with you at this point any new investment must be under special increase when it comes to environmental measures and environmental protection. And I pointed out the town of Slavonski Brod as a burning problem that is being seen, there is a lot of talk about it, and nothing has been solved, and we have an additional problem, the construction of a coal-fired thermopower plant is announced, which will further make the situation more difficult because of the rose winds that mainly pollute substances through the smoke and air coming over Slavonski Brod and Slavonic Posavina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40246	Thank you, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40247	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Vlaović, you and I come from the same county, I am from the town of Slavonski Brod and we know the problem of oil refinery in the Bosnian Ship and air pollution in Slavonski Brod that lasts more than 8 years. Here only in the first 3 months of this year, the limit value of the sulphur pipelines has been exceeded 34 times, and we know for ourselves that this value has been allowed 24 times throughout the year. A series of meetings have been held, and I urge the Secretary of State to hold the meeting that is in preparation as soon as possible, because the citizens of Slavonski Brod really don't have any more time to wait. A colleague, Vlaović, referred to the growth of various cancerous diseases that are growing every day in the town of Slavonski Brod, also means this latest meeting that was held in Moscow with our foreign minister and minister of the Russian Federation, gives us hope that something will be launched, but this time I also appeal to the ministry, give the meeting as soon as possible and, of course, our diplomacy that as soon as possible and faster with the owners of the refinery, or with the Russian Federation, access to better and faster negotiations so that the people of Slavonski Brod have much more clean days, or much less air pollution in Slavonski Brod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40248	Thank you. The reply to the replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40249	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues, you and I agree that citizens of Slavonski Brod can no longer wait for this solution and that they are rightly impatient and angry at all of us for doing nothing about them. Of course, this topic at meetings is solved by our government, the resolute ministries with the state of BiH, and here is good that Russian diplomacy is included because the owner of Russia, however, has announced the modernisation and change of energy where it has been said that it can be resolved within a few months, has already been a few months, and no activity has been announced. We think no meeting will speed up unless the Republic of Croatia does some other, additional pressure on BiH, and on the owner of the refinery. We have elements and ways to do this, and I think we only need political will. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40250	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40251	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaović, no appeals, no meetings, nothing will change, and even for a moment I think that the citizens who are looking at us here in Brod-Posavina County and Slavonski Brod, are even offended by this persistent repetition of one of the same things. What meetings, what appeals to diplomacy? Remember three months ago, she was president, four months ago, the president said she met somewhere along the way at a conference by the Russian Federation foreign minister and we'll sort it all out. Look, we're not gonna solve anything unless we move on our own and show that as a state, we can protect our citizens' interests. So we have the right to protect the health of our people, even though someone might say we are going against some international conventions. No one can do this to our people in Slavonko Brod, and please don't, not you specifically, but we have now heard a representative from HDZ who persistently appeal, ask for meetings and think that only the important thing in the ether will say something will be resolved. He won't get rid of anything like this. We have the possibility of another, I referred the third to the procedure of the law which allows it to be disabled in this way to supply oil that I would say polluting air in the Republic of Croatia is poisoning our citizens. The government hasn't responded in two, three months. After three months, she gave a rejection. That law stands here on the agenda. It's probably a lot more important to discuss. Unfortunately, our citizens hear about the 2014 reports but about those problems that are bothering them right now, this day and that are destroying their health. Here I call you Vice President, put it on the agenda. The law on the transport of oil and petroleum products. So there's no reason not to discuss it, but we're discussing the 2014 reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40252	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40253	Thank you. My colleague Maras said we have the right to seek protection. No, we have an obligation to protect, the government of the Republic of Croatia, the state of the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to protect the quality of life of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and especially in the town of Slavonski Brod where there is now evidence that most of the polluting substances come from Bosnia and Herzegovina as a product of the work of the refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina and through the measurement stations that we have set up there, and through this research done by the Public Health Institute on the improvement of citizens not only from cancer, but also from allergies and respiratory systems. All diseases are on the rise. And unfortunately, these meetings and these appeals did not bear fruit. And I agree with you that also by passing this law that you mentioned, but also by other economic pressures, because these systems only understand the economic pressures and damages they can have in doing business through our economic pressures, and we believe that the Republic of Croatia has models just doesn't use them. And here I am asking that this and the new law be passed on the transport of petroleum products, and on the other hand to pressure the owners of the refinery and Bosnia and Herzegovina to ban imports, export certain products through the restriction and other economic models. I think there's a way to put extra pressure, and the citizens of Slavonski Brod deserve that, too, all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40254	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act, we need to be aware and we need to visualize that we are not just talking about aesthetics, about smell, about discomfort. We are talking about human lives here, we are talking about quality and health, meaning the quality of life and the health of our fellow citizens, and we need to be aware that over half a million people die from air pollution-related diseases throughout the EU annually. In the Republic of Croatia, 5220 people die from such diseases every year and when we talk about it and when we talk about meetings, about solving problems, try to understand that we are talking about human lives. So we have no right not to act even as a Parliament. It's always easy to say we're not executives, we can't do anything, there's them to suggest. Unfortunately, we can see how the foreign minister gets rid of himself in two hours, but we can't solve anything about Slavonski Brod in two years. And sometimes people really and rightly wonder if politicians and people in the government are there because of the government, because of their places or because of them. I'll tell you when we talk about air pollution and easy promises and the deception of people living in Slavonski Brod and who suffer damage. The statement by the President of the Republic of Grabar Kitarović 19.2.2017 means almost 4 months ago. Me and Lavrov found a solution to the refinery in the Bosnian ship. And what happened? Are there any concrete steps? If our people there, the president left first thing tomorrow, called a meeting, made a big performance. No one insulted her. People wanted a solution, people wanted help. Nothing happened for four months. I've waited a long time, too, and I've promised people at the committee's thematic debates that we'll find a solution, that we'll offer what the Assembly of Representatives can do. I promised to write a law that would allow people in charge, the ministry, JANAF, a state-owned company, that if it is undoubtedly found that pollution and damage to the health of people in Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County stems from that refinery, and this has already been found to be possible to prevent our infrastructure from being used to poison our people and to earn someone else. I sent that bill after hundreds of citizens from Brod-Posavina County asked, which is why I'm not still going with it, and I sent the law and the SDP's representative's club sent it 2.3 this year, so three and a half months ago almost. We didn't get the answer. The HDZ debate was not wanted before the local elections. They were all in principle for it. They even kept an eye on him, even the MPs unanimously put him on a speedy emergency procedure. So, all of us in this assembly on March 2, 2017, raised our hands that the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products is going according to an urgent procedure. And now I'm asking you here, Mr. Vice President, we have the government's opinion, we have a problem, we have a bill of law, which is why this law doesn't go into debate? Somebody tell me that. So why are we doing, so you know what, you can make a fool out of me, I'm letting you, because you're ignoring the opposition, but don't make a fool out of people who live in trouble, who have health problems, who have problems and their children have problems, 5220 people die every year because of air pollution. You have no right to do that for them. Discuss and say that you are against it, not that this law has no other words but that you have acidified on the agenda who knows how long. And that's not funny to anyone, and it shouldn't be funny, and I'm asking you, right here in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, that this law be discussed as soon as possible. I have no reason not to be. So let HDZ and Mrs Maximchuk or someone else from Slavonski Brod raise their hands against it and then explain to their people in Slavonski Brod who chose them, sent to the Croatian Parliament to represent them for what they are against it? That's why we're here and why we should be here. This law can define 100 good things and we will support it. He is a step forward, I have nothing against this law and any shift positive will be supported by the SDP's Club of Representatives and in the area of air protection and climate protection. I just said that we are not happy with the behaviour of some powers, but we cannot influence them, we can only speak clearly here that we are maximum for the Paris Agreement and for everything that has been undertaken there, and that we will stick to it because we do not want to, not only our citizens but also the whole world, that at this point every 7 children, lives in areas with the highest toxic pollution, or 6 and more times higher and higher than is allowed, over 3 hundred million children live in such an area. And that is why Croatia must always be, if not a leader because it is not a big country and has no major influence on the international scene, but the owner, the first owner of these things, and for that we must fight for. On this side in Croatia we have several main causes, one of these causes is the intensive road traffic that we have in the Republic of Croatia and I would suggest that my colleagues from the Ministry of Environmental Protection suggest that all the activities we had as a state in this regard over the previous years continue. So we need to see how to regulate traffic, how to stimulate people to decide to buy cars with lower emissions, how that transition works from year to year, those good tenders hope to continue and further intensify, related to incentives to buy or hybrid or electric vehicles. We have to do this because one of the main problems of air pollution in the Republic of Croatia is road problem. And that's one through one. If we see that this is our main problem, then one of the main activities must be in that sense. The second is industry, modernization, not only foreign refineries, what we can't influence, but some companies owned by Croatia, including INA, which we have ambition to buy, I guess we still have that ambition, though we forgot that. Seven months ago, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia announced that we're going to buy INA, no one's talking about it anymore, we're going to see how the government is going to be asked about it, I'm not as optimistic as everyone here is probably in the assembly we're aware that it was just a Christmas PR spin, so we're going to die public because of the negative result of arbitration, and there would also call on the Prime Minister not to give false hopes and not promise something he won't implement, which he knows he won't implement, but we need to modernise our refineries. On the other hand, I said one of the third and the great reason is that cross-border pollution. The fourth reason is that many people in Croatia still use small bars for both heating and business and residential areas, and on this side I also call on the Ministry of Environmental Protection to engage more in these activities. Replacement of this energy-efficient heating of our fellow citizens' business and housing. We know that we had a problem, where people went into certain activities, and those who carried out the work had signed contracts with the Environment Fund, and the activities were not realised because of what was the problem in 2016 in the Ministry and the Environment Fund. So we have to solve problems the way they come to us and the way we can solve them and be interested in them. Otherwise we can pass laws, adopt directives, say that we will do everything we have to do, vote here for these laws, as I said the SDP's Club of Representatives will vote for but in the end we will not solve the problem and Croatia will not have that quality of air that our citizens deserve, not only, I said because of once aesthetics, sometimes the comfort of life, but because of health. These 5220 people who, unfortunately, die every year because of air pollution diseases deserve Croatia to do everything in order to be in the future as little as possible. There is a huge difference between countries that do not care about their industry and air pollution such as some of the EU's most developed countries, which means the biggest problem in Italy is one big economic strong country, but which has thus been conceiving its industry over the past decades and more that it is now difficult to deal with in haste. But we want to look to Scandinavia for countries that take great care of environmental protection and the health of their people. And that is why I call you once again, Mr. Vice President, not you because you do not determine it, but the President of the Croatian Parliament, and please give him this request that this law, which I have referred to in the procedure to the Croatian Parliament, be discussed because there is no reason not to discuss it today, you said it yourself, to discuss the reports from 2014, 2015 and 2016. On this side we also send another message to Prime Minister Plenkovic, it is easy to change the foreign minister in two hours, but we cannot solve the problem of people in Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40256	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, first of all, that distinguished representative Maria Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40257	Dear counterpart Maras, that this law speaks of, of course, harmonisation with the EU acquis in the area of air protection against regulation and monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions, policies and measures to reduce them. But I see that the board also discussed the impact of the wastewater treatment system on air quality. But what more colleagues talked about today and mentioned here in the Croatian Parliament, this is a problem, one of the problems of air pollution in Slavonski Brod. In Slavonski Brod, as you yourself said, I want to repeat it is about human lives, but not only in Slavonski Brod, it is about human lives and other areas in the Republic of Croatia. And I think that we should always strive that, regardless of the European gain and alignment with the European gain, we should make an effort as parliamentary representatives, as well as as as the Government to focus primarily on protecting human lives, on protecting human health, and not solely on looking at some sort of coordination. And I agree with you that we should discuss this law again as soon as possible, not that this bill of law and amendments should be on the agenda for the next few months, if not a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40258	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40259	Thank you very much. I will protect this Vice-President Reiner, it is not his fault that today we will discuss HAMAG from 2015 something that has passed, which can speak about some trends and Croatia's exit from recession, the incentives that we have given then, etc., is not his fault, but is the President of the Parliament who has repeatedly avoided putting it on the agenda. Although it has the government's opinion, although we have discussed it probably by committees already, that is, the Committee on Economy, I hope it has accepted if the Government's opinion has come to the Croatian Parliament. But what's more important is that people expect it from us in Slavonski Brod, they expect us to respond to their problems. We must not, and again I will tell you, we must not create an impression that unfortunately in Croatia it is important to solve the problem only for those who are worse, how to agree on most, how to buy representatives, how to break down HNS, these are issues that Prime Minister Plenkovic obviously very nicely solves, how to hold power with two hands anymore but it doesn't matter. But when it comes to solving the problem of people who are feeling the effects of air pollution on Slavonski Brod right now, we can't solve it. We organize meetings, our president meets Lavrov, he says something, she carries it all along and nothing happens. As long as we behave like this, there will be low confidence in politics. Why should people in Slavonski Brod ever experience that anyone cares about them if their biggest problem hasn't been solved in years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40260	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40261	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Maras, it's a good thing you left me some oxygen after so much talk that I can say something. You've been talking about everything and everything here, you've come from Sweden to our president, Lavrov, Slavonski Brod that you care so much about, and I've talked about Jakovina in a previous debate, and I've touched it a little bit about environmental protection, ozone holes that are above Babina Greda, which in your government has made a big project of Energane, droughts, plastics 20 acres, it's 50 no matter. It is easy to promise, given a project to someone, taken a pin from the project as much as possible, who will take it, promise the people of Babina Greda that they will get an energy source of 200 employees, and since then 700 have gone away, put stone foundations in their schools in their halls where they now have swimming pools or septic pits. I don't know how much someone would charge for it if you went to rehab. To talk about our president meeting with Lavrov and he made a promise, so she met possible with Lavre accidentally passing by, so he made a promise, and she's happy, of course, to tell her people happy news. So we sit here from the liberation of our Croatia on the opposite sides and we can't agree, and we couldn't even agree in '91. agree in this Croatian Assembly on common interests. So imagine how to make our president a deal with someone who doesn't have a common interest in the welfare of Croats in Croatia. And we are here every day discussing these topics, what good it is, as if we all got drunk and wanted well this Homeland and this Croatia. And you here every day as the greatest and wisest head of this House talk about problems and all that. You imagine Croatian highways are your biggest problem where one exhaust has FI10 cents and those 4 tubes in Babi's beam have every 2 metres FI and 24 cent per day pours poison into the ozone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40262	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40263	Thank you very much, Mr. Culey. I don't think I'm the wisest head here, and I can certainly visually estimate that I'm not even the greatest. He's got bigger heads than me. And as for the data I've provided, I didn't bring it with my own research, but that's how it is, so you can accept it or you can't accept it. Just as I'd like to inform you that there are no ozone holes above Babina Greda. So the ozone holes are, I can show you the pictures because if you think directly from the chimney from Babina Grede is doing the ozone hole up, then I'll tell you that it doesn't work exactly like that, but people could figure it out based on your exposure. So they're not ozone holes above Babina Greda. On the other hand, I would like our president not to rush in Croatia to make promises but to do things. So we don't have any of what she mentioned at the meeting, and this one said that, yes, she would be OK, and then she probably forgot it, and she triggered hope among people who obviously won't come true. As far as the welfare and care of Slavonski Brod is concerned, I would like it to be better in Slavonski Brod as in Dubrovnik and in Vukovar and Split and Istria. I'm equally fond of all parts of our Republic only unfortunately the quality of life in Slavonski Brod is now such that I have to highlight it. And I really want the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to make it better for everyone here, which is why I deal with politics, but I tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to all those who live in the Republic of Croatia and who love the Republic of Croatia as their country. So I don't see why you'd talk like I don't want to sometimes and under the belt like I don't want to, I want to. I don't know how to convince you, but I feel like I'll never convince you. Because you're just obviously being skeptical of me that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40264	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40265	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, thank you for taking care of the citizens of Slavonski Brod and for standing up for faster and better-quality solutions but for 8 years we have been talking about it and for 8 years we have had the opportunity to do something about it and it is all the ministers so far and all the governments that haven't solved anything in 8 years. There are plenty of meetings and promises, something concrete must be done and the biggest responsibility now has the current government because they also got the most votes in Brod-Posavina so let them now return that love to the citizens of Slavonski Brod and the Brod-Posavina County, let them do something concrete. And this law that you have proposed but also other concrete solutions. Here comes the harvest of wheat, barley and oiled tails, and the opportunity is, it's a good thing that there's a secretary of state to invite our fellow citizens not to burn harvest remains but to be burned by the ministry and the fund must launch an initiative to produce diapers as fuel and to help our farmers also have an additional source of income. And on the other hand, let's help our craftsmen make the stoves on those diapers of harvest leftovers. It is one project which is a concrete solution but certainly is the only solution to stop the work of the Refinery in the Bosnian-ship, which is the Croatian government, the ministry and the JANAF can do and until today they are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40266	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40267	Thank you very much. That would be so, Mr. Vladovic, if you were not interested in those who are in power at the moment who will be the senior director of JANAF, the senior director of JANAF, follow who is CEO of JANAF and who will be, then you might understand why the HNS coalition, HDZ, just follow, everything will be clear to you. So it's more of an interest now to people in the government who are going to be CEO of JANAF for the next 3 years than whether to solve the problem of people in Slavonski Brod. And if I have to, I'm willing to be guilty for the last eight years and yell here, Maras is guilty that it hasn't been solved for eight years if it gets rid of it now. After eight years, I'm gonna yell that Culey is responsible for getting rid of it. So I'm willing to do it just let him solve the problem. For eight years, I'm going to yell that it's my fault and for the next eight years, and here I promise you that in front of all of you, I'm going to say that Culey is responsible for the problem being solved. So it doesn't matter to me who's responsible and who's guilty, it's important to me at this point that those people there still have a problem that's getting bigger and bigger every day, it doesn't work out, it generates. People out there can't just live in a dignified way. So once again, please, Vice President, tell the President of the Parliament what I said. We've got the law, so he can put him in a procedure to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40268	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. And the first came to the attention of Honorary Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40269	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Air protection. What God has given us means that if we look at the European frameworks, essentially the directive, it should be supported and accepted. Of course, we should return to and our reality, to reality in the Republic of Croatia, and especially in terms of stakeholders that these laws do not apply to, not now that we are going to pass but all of the laws so far because it is natural to fight for sustainable development. Croatia has lost a number of giant industries, so at least in this we have an environment, nature, air, water, that as resources and potential, however, for our political elites and their foreign lobbys, these rules do not apply. To find a few examples, here are colleagues talking about Slavonski Brod, as a major problem, so I remember that for seven and eight years it has been said in the government of Prime Minister Sanader and Prime Minister Kosor and Zoran Milanovic when Mr. Zmajlović spoke, when he entered into office that the problem of Slavonski Brod will be solved within a year, and it is not solved, however, it really does not, however, speak, agreements and meetings simply do not bring effect to people in Slavonski Brod and people really do not have a basic human right, and this is the right to clean air. It is a fundamental human right and we are the ones responsible for this problem solve all together. However, in order to implement this law, as a society, I would have to say, here I will return to this topic this morning, meaning similar topics and interest groups, so the example here is scary that at the largest, not only is it on the largest drinking pool of Peruca, it would want to do thermal power plants, but it would also be one huge contaminant of a clean area and a clean area where the gas thermopower plant would have a chimney of 110 meters, wide 9 meters, where in a second, as I said, 760 kilograms of exhaust gases from chimneys, it is one amount of huge, but in that would be CO2 of 145 tonnes per hour. It's equivalent to taking 150,000 vehicles now and turning them on and doing so much nonstop, it's going to be, so CO2 released into the air from the thermal power plant on Peru. These examples tell us that simply these interesting lobbys produced from politics, it is not only the case of the Perun thermal power plant, so I come from the Cetina region, the Split-Dalmatia County, and it was a similar example in Ploča, where the thermopower plant was also stopped by citizens, and the political elites pushed it back then, and the current ones, of course, which were implemented in power and in Parliament, were here, they were pushing a project that was also a huge polluter, but people were self-limiting to stop the project, then the citizens of Vlaho Orepić well know, stopped citizens with numerous associations, among other associations, I remember, Škanj. So the citizens stopped the project with self-organization to protect them from political elites, who managed these societies and who received a mandate from them to manage. In 2015, the government adopted a Law on Renewable Energy where it meant to introduce a market application of the price between agreed and market on the meaning of renewable energy where 75 lipa of more expensive electricity was more expensive than the electricity that we receive, which is not from renewable energy sources. Of course, that's where the foreigners came in, that's the wind power plants, and that's the same case as the Perun thermal power plant. Where our citizens are going to pay for it, and this year only Minister Vrdoljak made it through, they're paying a billion kuna. This year should be... For the next 3 years 5 billion kunas, so solars, on their households could have all the households in the Republic of Croatia that the state paid for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we would achieve the equivalent of the agreed and agreed with the EU, that we have so many percentages of renewable energy sources, and that is why now the coalition, it must be in power, it is interests, it is a link between stakeholders and of course it will be Mr Vrdoljak at one of the key functions soon either in JANAF or HEP, and that is known. So that's the part that's jeopardizing our air, for the sake of interest, and we're passing a law that we can freely break because of these interesting lobbies, secretary. Well, you know that's how it's gonna be, there's no rules for them, and there's no rules for Lechvice. There are no rules. You didn't have to sign it, you'll sign it soon. And you have to do that no matter what the water base is, the most nutty in Europe is under Lečevica. That's right. So we're applying this law that needs to be supported, it's cheating, but it's simple and application and reality won't be applied because of these interesting lobbies. So we're passing a law that I simply, I don't see the point if it isn't actually applied and how no air is protected, and even I see it from the foreign minister, the husband owns a part of the Vis Viva project in the Cetina region and other projects. From the minister who was Mr. Dacic's advisor, but what I like to call him is little Sloba. The Serbian former prime minister. Therefore, I hope honestly, that we will preserve and that we will fight for sustainable development as my Cetina region, the Split-Dalmatia County, so Dubrovnik-Neretva to Vukovar, because citizens cannot organise themselves. We are passing laws, and in the Plates, citizens must self-organize to prevent us from being chosen, because of the chosen ones. So, to just say falsely even quoted the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, means the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, which was quoted in the project of Peru's thermal power plant, and was later denied. So simply interests must not overcome the application of these laws. And what God gives is air, water and our pure nature. It's because of future generations. And for that reason, I expect this law to be applied and to protect our environment, our air, and it means complete nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40270	Thank you very much. Now we can return to the presentation of the individual respected representative of Mira Bulj. And the first was the guest of honor Vlaho Orepić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40272	And we're talking about air protection. Protect the air. This law is indeed a step in line with the legislation, and I am putting an end to it. Absolutely nothing more. What's reality? Yesterday, the other day when I performed here and said thesis and this confirms it. The current policy and current economy stemming from this policy and such policy does not protect the population, the people of the Republic of Croatia. It doesn't protect you, on the contrary. We have a problem here with mentored policy, we have a problem with a mentored economy, which literally harms its people. We've got a situation right now at the Peruvian hydropower plant, where they want the thermo power plant, we're not aware of the moment that the hydrocarbons are currently a car. It's that the civilized world is turning forward and slowly leaving hydrocarbons, and we're building our energy policy on these very hydrocarbons. Gentlemen, the right alignment of the law with life would be a step away, creating a break from hydrocarbons and creating some other perspective regarding energy dependence, or independence of the Republic of Croatia. That this thesis that I'm saying is that politics is not protecting its people and that the economy that is based on that and such a policy is also not protecting its people, we have a recent example from Ploč, where they imagine in the plates in the inhabited area, they wanted to make gentlemen say names, a thermopower plant on coal, two times eight hundred megawatts. Let me get you close to what's about, that's two chimneys at 75 meters, a width of 35 meters. Trafo for such a trap is the area of the football field. The cooling system for this thermal power plant, the entire Neretva, passes the entire Neretva stream in one second and passes through the cooling system and the thermal power plants. It is the energy policy of those and those who protect the likes of the Croatian people, the interests of the Croatian people What's the biggest tragedy? [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] So the boards are evidence of that and that kind of policy, but the boards are also proof that the people can prevent it. The referendum rejected that thesis where Mr. Bacic and... [[Intruder Rainer: Thank you.]] as representatives of the then policy did not dare to come [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in that city to support their people. [[Employer Rainer: Kologa Orepić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40273	You've gone way too far, I tolerate everyone to go a little too far, but you've gone a little too far. Here will be answered by a distinguished colleague, Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40274	Unfortunately, the application of the law is passed here in Parliament only to be passed and to say here we have applied EU directives, we have harmonised the laws in this case on air, but the fact is, as in Plots wanted to make the same case in Peru where the chimney is 110m tall, meaning 110m, width of 9m, 145 tonnes per hour of CO2 or 150 thousand cars to work non-stop at one point. There would be so many exhaust gases in the air in the Cetina region, not only is it a drinking source of water, that we have to fight to preserve the largest pool, which is Peruchin but also the air would be so polluted that people would get sick like in Slavonski Brod, where we also have to fight, but the courage of people and citizens is proven on the example of Ploče. Of course, there have been such actions in other parts, such as in the Cetina region, on other issues, the same attempts at ecological pollution of the river Cetina, however, when citizens are self-organised, there are obviously successes, and political elites in those moments run away from their people, which is an indicator of how much they favor elites with interesting lobbys. This is an obvious case now, and by the question of TE Peruch, which the people, regardless of the threats, do not try to protect me, no matter what they say to me, I will continue to be with the people of Cetina region, and with Cetina there is the future of my children, our children, drinking water and clean air. All these interest groups from that gentleman to the President of the Council, the Prime Minister, his now foreign ministers and her husband and all the other Cetinians will tell them you will not pollute our water and our air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40275	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40276	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, I can't help but support you because in you I recognize a truly true representative of my people, the indigenous one that my friends of Roma would say. You take care of your end, you take care of something you have, something that's yours, something that you predict might happen. I come from one area that some call rural, we have something to fight for and what to worry about, but soon I don't know if anyone will have to worry about it and fight because it's getting more and more out of Eastern Slavonia, Cwellferium the most. You have recognized the problem in Croatia since pollution and what is the threat in your area, and I would paint it on the whole of Croatia. With us, the problem in Croatia is garbage, agriculture, hunting, schooling, sport, it's all a problem with us, and in one developed Austria that's a few kilometers away if we hurry, we just go there and see what they've done to those resors that we're talking about is the problem with us. Why is there a problem with us, and there's no problem with them? Are their leaders smarter heads smarter or more patriotic? What is the problem in Croatia that nothing works with us, and in one Austria under which we were once functioning? I'm not going to defend that Austria and the Austro-Hungarian that was, but in their time it was known how the woods were exploited, so the oaks were chosen to remember, what had to be left behind were left behind. It was built and now the city of Vinkovci and our county will get Hungary's biggest building in Vinkovci, just the ones that left it for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40277	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40278	Agent Culey. Yes, Croatia is the only thing that is doing to implement the EU directive, and in fact we are an exploitation field of stakeholders, and this is visible from these projects that are not useful from wind power plants to thermal power plants that are not in favour of Croatian citizens, residents. Both maritime well-being, both the number and the number are in the capacity of protection and sustainable development of the ecological in the area of the Republic of Croatia and the opposite. We accept these laws, and basically use the team through our political elites that push these projects as an exploitation field that will destroy both air and the environment and nature, which is very easy to see. So at one of the last governments, Minister Vrdoljak Milanovic's government, now in coalition with HDZ, Vrdoljak passed a law on preferential prices for renewable energy sources where 75 lipa is in favour of foreigners. A billion kunas this year will pay Croatia to foreigners on the burden of our citizens, and so it will be the same in terms of thermal power plants. I know it's nervous now, sir, that she's nervous, but the fact is that this year we have to pay out of the state budget wind or citizens or budget. I know you'll be in protective custody by now, so far you've kept your mouth shut, that's true. And not only that, but five billion kunas in three years, and for five billion kunas, Mr. Culey, I know that you're fighting for your end, five billion kunas we could put in solars free of charge on every household of people and achieve what we triangulate the percentage of renewable energy sources. And like this, we'll pay foreign investors in their pockets at wind power plants, and so the thermal power plants would all go to the expense of our citizens or our budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40279	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40280	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Bulj. Here we all agreed that this law is very important and we agree and we support it, but we all looked back today's debates and discussed my town of Slavonski Brod, here's what I'm glad you all support to get rid of this problem as soon as possible. However, some representatives have now found wonders to write and some new laws, to propose them and for 4 years while in power, have done almost nothing. Minister Zmajlovic said that air pollution in Slavonski Brod would be resolved in one year. However, it has been four years, nothing has been solved. The same was said about the delusions of performance and the biggest deception of Slavonski Brod's citizens was heard on 8 November 2012 when a senior official came to Slavonski Brod and met with the mayor of Slavonski Brod, of course other members who attended the meeting said that the refinery in the Bosnian Ship had been closed. So I say, we support all of this but of course without good diplomacy, without negotiations with representatives, or owners of the Rafineria in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with authorities from Bosnia and Herzegovina and our diplomacy, we cannot solve this problem and all of the rigorous measures that they propose, those who have been able to solve this problem for four years of course are wrong and certainly that every peaceful time, every normal peaceful negotiation we also support the citizens of Slavonski Brod. And here I once again appeal to the Secretary of State to organise that meeting as soon as possible, which he said was in the announcement. And we really need to do something urgent to make the citizens of Slavonski Brod a better and better life.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40281	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40282	Thank you very much. If my colleagues, I agree that those who are being called would once be ministers and had their colleagues and even Minister Zmajlovic, you are right to say that, after the handover of his duties, the minister would say that he would solve the problem within a year. I remember that statement and thank God it was like that, but it wasn't. And it's really a huge problem, and that's where we need to find an urgent solution. As soon as the solution is over, they cannot listen to their children suffer from various dangerous diseases themselves. And I hope to be honest that there will be a solution. But no one has the right to appeal to this or to this, everyone has had a chance to get rid of it, but it's not settled. And we must not allow in other parts the same case as in Slavonski Brod. And that's why we need to protect our air, which is why this law is good, but we need to fight for it to apply. It's not enough if we bring it in without it being applied. The application of the law is what the state has to build on these laws. If the laws don't apply and we pass them, then this story is unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40283	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40284	Thank you. Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, this law, it's one lie and a fraud, one supreme cynicism. This law protects nothing but the slightest air. It is a law that protects the bureaucratic character of the EU. What's in this law that's supposed to protect the air? The Council of Europe Directive of April 2015 and the Commission Directive of 28 August 2015 and Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015, and Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 and finally Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016, and that is all. That's all you can say about this law. European directives are being introduced. At the same time, we have a situation in Slavonski Brod that 5200 people die of polluted air annually. And we have this situation that this Europe doesn't care about this Slavon ship and it doesn't care about those people who die there. And what has this EU and this European Commission done to help Croatia get rid of this poisoning of people in Slavonski Brod? She made the directives, and our government sent that directive to the Parliament so that we could bring them into the law and say that we had done something. So instead of today we're discussing this completely pointless law, unnecessary, we should have here today a debate on what to do to make pollution in Slavonski Brod stop tomorrow. We should call on the foreign minister even if he's left behind to say what he's done to get rid of it diplomatically. We have a sinking ship, this ship is called Slavonski and it sinks into pollution, it sinks into disease, it sinks to death and we bring, we accept EU directives. We're so taken care of. Contaminant, this pollution is coming from Bosnia. On the current morning, I asked one question about us sending our pensions to Bosnia. I received a protest note today from the MPs of the 11th Election Unit in the Croatian Parliament and in response to that protest note, I dared to ask why Croatian pensions, Croatian people, Croatian budgets, when our pensions are poor and those who have never worked in Croatia and never paid. In response to this protest note, I ask representatives from the 11th Election Unit who come from Bosnia what they did in the country where they live to help Croatian citizens in Slavonski Brod. Did they stage a protest in Sarajevo? Have they launched the HDZ of Bosnia and Herzegovina to ask their authorities why you are polluting citizens in Croatia, why are you doing this? It means their pensions, and they're our sulfur dioxide, good trade. We heard here that some diplomacy has done, however, that President Grabar-Kitarovic spoke with Minister Lavrov. And if she said I made a deal with Lavrov, everything would be settled, and that should be believed, as well as about going to High Street, up from Pantovich. That's exactly what it's worth. And one of the biggest contaminants is the United States, so when the president had already pushed to President Trump like that, standing on the feet of all the other diplomats there, to break through to him, she could ask him then, a very influential man. But he didn't even see her, he looked at her like this, above her. Even if she asked him a question, I doubt he'd answer that at all. Why is this law and cynicism? Besides, it's a complete lie and a fraud. 5200 people die annually in Slavonski Brod from pollution, which comes from chimneys, and we are here 15 days ago, following a proposal from the Minister of Health, banned the use of those steamers, electronic cigarettes, and from them comes water steam and aroma. Water steam and aroma. That's the health minister's problem, but he's not doing anything to keep those chimneys shut down there. And that's why it's cynicism. This isn't the Air Protection Act. This law isn't gonna help anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40285	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Steve Culei.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40286	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Stazic, did you mistake the pots by accident or on purpose? When in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, you put on one side and the other some parts of that people, when we talk about the Bosnian Ship, are they on what side? Resisted by Dodig. And who's in charge there? They're not Croats. You talk about their influence on Croatians and then you transfer the ball to Croatian defenders from Herceg Bosnia, how we give them money for pensions, and they don't protest in Sarajevo against the Bosnian Ship. You say it that way as if the Bosnian Ship refinery was created in this government, as if it didn't exist at the time of your government, I worked in Slavonski Brod before the war, Homeland, of course, not the other one, I wasn't age, I didn't make it, but then there was this refinery that worked, smoke and understood Slavonski Brod. I understand that you love Slavonski Brod, that you care for the citizens of Slavonski Brod, so of course you are their worse son, you are the son of the province, famous, decent people who lived there, who have long passed their contribution to the capital of Croatia, Zagreb where they have made their good works better for Croatia as they have in Podvinj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40287	The answer of the distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40288	Bosnia and Herzegovina is Bosnia and Herzegovina, an internationally recognised state. With three nations, all three equally responsible. For the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Banja Luka, both in the Bosnian Brod and in Sarajevo. Therefore, when I expect those who have been elected here to the Croatian Parliament and come from Bosnia and Herzegovina to understand, I expect them to understand that from the territory of their country there comes pollution that damages, poisoning the citizens of the country in which they are elected, then I think I expect them to do something in that country. Whether in Banja Luka, to go there to protest or to organise protests there or to do it in Sarajevo or to do it anywhere on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, nothing more logical than my request.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40289	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40290	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So much incorrect information, so many insinuations, so many things to check, by simply clicking on the Internet, by simply clicking on any expert portal that handles any of these topics, which has other purpose than to produce, I would say, I wouldn't even dare say a fight, but one controversy that has neither head nor tail and some parliamentary advocates do so and are fantastic at it. Some of them talk about the law without even knowing what the law's called. The second story tells of the lack of strategies that were adopted ten years ago. The third of them tell a story and convince the Croatian public that nothing is happening even though something is happening. And some of us are convinced that honey and milk flow in Croatia. Well, gentlemen, none of this today is true except that the law presented here by the Secretary of State is in line with the legislation with the EU acquis. And I agree with you some who are drilling into the chest and encourage and parliamentary representatives and opinion, the public opinion of the Croatian people that it is necessary to rise up against the agreed EU regulation, that it should be demonstrated, that it should be against etc. etc. But respected colleagues and colleagues, what exactly are you offering as an alternative? What exactly are you offering as an alternative? The words of colleagues of Bulja who have no idea what each quantity of kilowatt hours of electricity produced in the Republic of Croatia is from. So let's give ourselves at least so fair and correct, that we learn the basic things we want to talk about. There are experts here dealing with medicine, social, energy, transport, etc. etc. So does everyone here who's sitting around know everything? I say no. Thus, the problem of air pollution in Slavonski Brod is evident and can be resolved by bilateral efforts of two independent states – the Republic of Croatia and BiH. All the other stories, wishes, powers, and no intention are stories for little children. What is happening in Croatia and I was against some decisions by my colleague Vrdoljak at the time he was Minister, and I was particularly against an increase in electricity and gas prices because it was a tariff through which funds were provided and the accumulation of funds for new investments that have been in Croatia since 2000 since '91. It just wasn't. And now instead of these disputes, let's deal with where that money went, why there was a accumulation that wasn't spent on new investments, we're dealing with why the 23rd contract was signed, or the solution for which the application to that ministry was filed three years ago. Well, I'm not going to criticize my colleague Vrdoljak for signing that solution on the 23rd, but I'm going to call him and ask him why this document had been standing with him for three years and he didn't sign it a year or two or three before. And when we start talking about the system of renewables, I'd like that fellow Bulja to have a light on that light bulb only when it's produced from renewable sources. So let a colleague return to the '70s, in the '60s, and let him look at the television in three hours while the sun is out, let him have drinking water in three hours while there's sun, let his brain function differently, but let him not abuse all of us here. Energy strategy and energy policy is something else. Energy projects are very difficult and they are currently most polluting the environment more than transport and more than the Croatian industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40291	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40292	Here, I'll replicate from the end. I wouldn't want a light bulb in Mr. Bull's house to shine only when the current comes from a renewable source. I'd like the house in his light bulb to shine always day and night because he obviously needs enlightenment. You say it should not be against a harmonised EU regulation. Well, I'm not against harmonised EU regulations. I'm against poisoning people in Slavonski Brod. You say this should be resolved by bilateral negotiations between the two countries. So work it out. You have a new coalition now, take care of it. I'd be happier if we were to talk about this solution today, if you'd started doing it yesterday. If you didn't yesterday, start today. If not, but start tomorrow at the latest because people are dying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40293	The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40294	Well, it might be a little weird, and I may be a little different from my friend and colleague Culey by nature, but with these last words of yours, I totally agree. And yes, all of us sitting here and all of Croatia's interested public is the intensity and desire to solve the problem of the Bosnian and Slavonski Brod as soon as possible. And I suggested at a thematic session initiated by my colleague Maras, I'm sorry he's not here today, because this debate would probably take a lot, a lot longer. So there are documents through which you can solve so-called. cross-border influence. The only handicap in this document called the ESPO Convention is that it does not accept those projects that were built before the ESPO Convention was adopted. If it was one of the new facilities, we would solve it relatively simply. But those promises that people, i.e. state officials, made when they acted as ministers and secretaries, just came into ignorance and regulation because they promised hills and valleys, because the problems wanted to be solved in a month. And here, after 10 years of solving that problem, we're still groping in the dark and there's only good will and good intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40295	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to give my word, since we've exhausted all the applications, I'd like to give my word to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection to the esteemed Maria Shileg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, distinguished parliamentary deputies and MPs here, I would just like to say that the law that is before you is not a mere alignment with the acquis of the EU, although it may be agreed that it is a direct cause for the adoption of this law, or the Law on the Amendment and Supplements of the Law on Air Protection, to comply with the acquis of the EU. There is one important fact here, one important improvement in relation to the current regulation, which is that there are restrictions on emissions of polluting substances in the air and medium storage devices, and small and medium storage devices are unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, especially in rural areas the main source of pollution when we talk about floating particles, rigid floating particles, whether it is flying particles PM 10 tiny and PM 25 slightly larger which although we do not notice them, although we cannot smell them having the most negative impact on human health. So I definitely expect that including these new restrictions in the housing sector will definitely contribute to better air quality in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, Slavonski Brod, the problem of the Bosnian Ship, is a dominant source of pollution and is all relevant studies have established, and when we talk about floating particles, then the results of the studies also show that the great contribution, the dominant contribution to floating particles in Slavonski Brod, is definitely from these and such bars. I don't want to, of course, in any way underestimate the problem of pollution from the Bosnian ship, but I would just like to stress that this law that is definitely a good step forward in improving the quality of air in the Republic of Croatia. We've had amendments that we'll Okay, since the Legislative Committee has amendments to the normative nature, the Ministry of Environment and Energy has no objections and will include them both. [[/Intruder Rainer: that's what we'll do on the occasion of the vote. You can comment on them, you can comment on them, of course we'll vote.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40297	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40298	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. Be. 93. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Committee. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act. Please vote. I find it unanimous with 119 votes to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40299	And as I announced we will now go to - Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2015 The applicant is the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment under Article 15. A law to encourage the development of a small economy. The material was delivered to you in boxes, the discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received their report at the session, the government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear President of Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments Mr. Vjeran Vrbanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40300	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. For the first time, I, as president of the administration, have the opportunity and honour to talk about the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, though, today is 13.6.7. and this is a report for 2015, but better ever than never. So before you there is a report on the work, we like to tell ourselves the most important Croatian state agencies to encourage and promote small entrepreneurship. So our purpose of existence is actually to provide active support and measures of instruments providing therefore, active support to micro, small and medium enterprises. 2015 was, for example, some start-up year where some basic preconditions were created for the activities that we are carrying out today, when we were more or less at full cost in the vast majority of costs and all other accompanying activities to be re-located from the national budget to the EU funds, but in 2015, it was some starting year and for such activities. Otherwise, HAMAG BICRO, which is a short name for the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment, has existed since 94' when it was founded that the Croatian Guarantee Agency and the very name of that 94', therefore also the framework of the cor business or the main activity of which HAMAG BICRO is engaged today. This is primarily the issue of a guarantee, i.e. guarantees for corporate credits microcredit in the second part, so sectoral allocation to the agency according to certain activities deals with EU funds, therefore, by negotiation, evaluation, negotiation and implementation of all those contracts that entrepreneurs together with the Ministry of Economy, crafts and entrepreneurship agree on in all those priority exceptes concerned by the small economy. And the third part or third sector actually deals with innovation itself, so perhaps we are the only agency, i.e. the only institution, better said in Croatia that gives active measures and support to the innovation system. But let's say, alone, so guarantees as some kind of major instrument that the entrepreneurs recognise us in 2015, as I was saying earlier, were exclusively related to national budgets, purely perhaps in figures in 2015, HAMAG received 540 guarantee applications, 382 guarantees were granted including a letter of intent, which is at some level compared to 2014, 40% increase in these activities. At the time there were, although there are also days today and several programmes of guarantee or guarantee schemes that were developing at the time, so it is primarily a programme we grow together by which the entrepreneur can issue up to 50% of the guarantees for his corporate credit, guarantee schemes are being developed and implemented in cooperation with business banks, clean clarity for the sake of the bank makes a conditional decision on the granting of credit, after which we are once again doing a financial and economic analysis of that requirement and if all is well, if the request does not conflict with our programmes we issue a guarantee. So this guarantee is actually a first-rate collateral that all Croatian business banks consider to be a factual deposit, which is why interest rates, we'll see in a year, two, respectively, in the 2017 report, are actually historically low for an entrepreneur who uses our guarantee. The total amount of the guarantees granted was 382 and we are talking about some amount in 2015 amounting to 364,635 million kuna of the total guarantee portfolio was allocated to entrepreneurs. According to some projections, this is done at the level of some 700 million kunas of new loans. Microcredit as another instrument for encouraging or facilitating access to finance for entrepreneurs in 2015 was also exclusively linked to the state budget. At that time, only five million kunas were foreseen for this type of activity. Microcredit was actually meant for beginner entrepreneurs at some rate of effective interest rate of 1.10% were approved by these placements. At this point I can say that we have now placed micromale loans with European money, so we have changed only a little bit of the titles, so over 85 million kuna in the last eight months at an interest rate of 0.5%. So in 2015, I repeat, it was this sort of turning point where some basic business bases were created in 2017. At the level of 34 micropests, the average amount at the time was 108 thousand kuna, and totaled 3.7 million. In 2015, the Operational Competitiveness Programme, Cohesion, was completed, and a new sector was established in the agency itself, a non-refundable support sector which at that time had the purpose and purpose, the implementation of national programmes, the allocation of grants in that known entrepreneurial impulse that lasted some 7, 8 years, 7, 8 years, was granted to entrepreneurs. We can simply speak in some numbers, so there were two measures, there was one measure to strengthen competitiveness and the processing industry where it was financed and it provided grants to the processing sectors, and another measure was intended for service activities. As regards the processing industry, a total of 29 million kunas were allocated to 99 approved applications, and 78 applications were granted in terms of support for service activities and all 8 million kunas were allocated. It was also carried out as a sub-programme at the time of 2015. it was... where some 8 million kuna was planned for the purchase of some software and information equipment and the opening of a website where much smaller amounts were allocated, so at the level of some 10 thousand kuna where some figures were divided around a thousand grants where here as some kind of direct effect of this programme was at the level of 847 created websites and some thousand purchased computers which were users of these support were exclusively the start-up of hopes means entrepreneurs to begin with. So today's grants sector has nothing to do with national funding, we have fully re-located our activities to EU funds under the Operational Competitiveness and Cohesion Programme. At this point, we have over a billion kunas of project value, over a billion kunas of grants that have been allocated in various stages. As I was saying in the introduction, HAMAG-BICRO is among other innovation agencies. So in 2014, there was fusion between HAMAG Invest as one agency and the Bicro agency in the unique HAMAG-BICRO agency with the bull's legate and history, HAMAG also received this component of the agency that supports innovative small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. So all those who deal with some kind of IRD research and development. So we were and we were probably the only address they could come up with in order to get certain financial assistance to develop innovative programmes. The innovations, therefore, are full of the mouth of innovation, so innovations as such are recognised by the European Commission and Juncker's plan and in all important strategic documents as some kind of main tool for fostering growth and development of the small economy, so here we are, in this context and in anti-cimating certain events we have implemented with the help of World Bank loans under the ETSP II programme, so four innovative programs, so Reason, POC, IRCRO and UTT are all some kind of cookies for various types of projects and programs in which entrepreneurs participated, but at the same time also research institutions such as the college, Ruđer Boskovic, various institutes, so where they come to where they come from, therefore, every entrepreneur could, in this innovative chain, therefore, develop, from the very idea created or some kind of innovation created in some kind of institute, or in a culture, and in order to find out-of-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-be-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to- So today, such programs exist and develop in the HAMG. So, at the same time in 2015, certain network projects have started to develop, so as is the EEN or European entrepreneurship network where we are trying to find some partners in developed EU countries. So we financed and co-financed certain visits to certain fairs. So we're also developing, or they're starting to develop at that point and two programmes that are partly co-financed. So maybe it's the first kind of programme co-financed by EU funds, so Eurostars I EUREKA, with a great co-financing of the national budget, but these are actually the first examples, so funding innovative projects at international level, in the sense that each of our entrepreneurs must have their own foreign partner with whom they then realise certain benefits. In 2015, the construction of the biocenter was completed, so it was one capital project run by more BICRO, so it was about 17,5 million euros spent on perhaps at this time the most modern Bajotek centre in this part of Europe. So many of you and many of my colleagues and friends don't even know about the bio centre, so it's a top-of-the-line building built and equipped in Borongray, so at this point there's a dozen, 15 young engineers, young doctors of science who are therefore developing and conducting commercial research on the most modern instruments, so I'm certainly inviting you if you're going to be able to visit the Borongaj this biocentre to see for yourself the usefulness of that investment. I think it's less, I think the report was done on some 50-ac pages, here I'd end up with it, so if there are any questions, I'm available, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40301	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first member of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40302	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I listened carefully to your report, which is thorough, interesting, and you also mentioned cooperation with institutions and chambers. However, you have not touched on a single sentence whether there is any co-operation with local self-government units, meaning municipalities and cities. In particular, economic growth and development occurred in the area of Varazdin County, hence the decline of unemployment precisely because of entrepreneurship zones which mainly formed units of local self-government and cities. I'm going to mention just a few of them, for example. in the municipality of Kneginec we have one business zone where the annual export of 850 million kuna. In the last 2.3 years, the largest investments were in the business zone in Jalzabet, the municipality of Jalzabet over a billion kunas in the development of the zone and foreign investments. A distribution logistics zone for agricultural products in the Vidovec municipality is now being built. I therefore believe that, in this part, it is precisely the unit of local self-government, municipalities and cities that designed and designed these areas in their fields, where employment growth and foreign investment occurred the most. So my question is whether there is any cooperation with municipalities and cities and, of course, I am proud to point out here that all these environments are run by HDZ's chiefs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40303	The reply of the esteemed president of the HAMAG administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40304	Here's the honourable representative, right now, to answer the question, actually, to a few. So HAMAG, so I don't know in 2015 if she was working with units of local and regional regional self-government. Here I can say during the time when I took over the office of the president of the administration, so we continuously and from the very beginning create this strong link with all units of local self-government that exist in the field of the Republic of Croatia, especially with those where perhaps less developed entrepreneurial activity is precisely in order for entrepreneurs from their area to be informed, primarily about our activities, as an agency, so that we inform them about our services that we can provide and they are very, very large. So at this point we place micro and small loans at an interest rate of 0.5%, so that's usually in those counties that are conditionally undeveloped. Therefore, given the degree, i.e. the index of development of each individual county. So the city of Zagreb, the city, or Zadar County, Dubrovnik County is more developed by this index, and they have something more expensive, or credit, and again on the other side of Slavonia County, certain counties in northern Croatia, and Lika therefore have this lower level, or the index of development, so there is an interest rate of 0.5% So we are certainly at least once or three times a month, doing local field, so we also educate and units of local self-government and most of their development agencies, so both urban and county agencies, so that they are preparing, since they are also taking part in making business plans and all of those activities and they are positioned locally, so we give, so we have, the answer would be yes. We cooperate closely and I hope that this cooperation should be even more intense and fruitful.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40305	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40306	Thank you very much. My colleague Vrbanec, I have one question since we are still in 2017, and the report is from 2015, I would just like you to look back briefly, to see at least a level of activity by guarantees related to 2016 and 2017, maybe just give us an indicative information as it moves, whether it goes about in a similar, better or slightly worse sequence, whether it means a number here we see that we have 380 guarantees, whether it's at that level, because I think HAMAG has a lot of affirmation there and I'm interested in how it works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40307	The answer of the esteemed president of the HAMAG administration, Veran Vrbanca.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40308	Thank you for asking, Reverend Maras. Therefore, as regards the guarantees themselves, that the intensity of the figures concerned in 2016 and 2017 will certainly be somewhat lower than in 2015, which does not mean that the effects achieved on other parallels, with microcredit or small loans are not compensated, this smaller volume of guarantees may be issued. However, the reason for something smaller, I guess, I don't have numbers ahead of me, but from what we did, we wrote a 2016 report that some activity on the volume of guarantee is 15% lower than in 2015, but the reason lies in the fact that the agricultural programme was abolished, so it's more in 2016 than 30. In 06, the programme was abolished, so there was simply no basic and strategic documents from the Ministry of Agriculture that were to be made so that primary agriculture could be further supported with guarantees. So, at this point, it is before the completion of the new programme, for farmers and primary agricultural production, but I say, as I said, we have searched ways to compensate these loans through business banks, more intensive financing, direct financing through HAMAG Micro, through micro and small loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40309	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I can't see them. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the distinguished representative Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40310	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. President-in-Office of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment. So I will agree with these opening statements and I think that the interpretation and discussion in the 2014 and 2015 report is almost pointless at this point. But I have a proposal, I'm not sure if we're going to be able to honour it already in the 2016 report, but I think it would be very useful for all parliamentary representatives, if we gave a parallel display of three consecutive years, so from year to year we could do what my colleague Maras asked, see what was going on at the agency in that current year, that is, a year or two, we would say sooner. I'm not surprised because of this and the sweating that was set here, or the replica, which happens with guarantees because the stories about guarantees are a key element of the existence of HAMAG, it's a little hard to repeat all these three terms all the time because the agency was created by fusion and I think it's well done, so from two, once three agencies, we got one executive element, which is the extended arm of the once Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Economy, today the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, and realizes the fact that in 2015 we had almost 540 requests for a guarantee, so one of the key elements, so that the entrepreneurial activity would happen at all. In 2017, an even more potent story for a simple reason, because the state support of which is the source of EU funds comes from large, medium and small ones, usually by a percentage of 25, 35 or 45% of grants, and the rounding of financial investment is either accumulated or retained profits or some of the loans given by Croatian institutions, Croatian Banks for Reconstruction and Development, Croatian Post office banks or commercial banks with a large difference in interest rates. So, I've been following what's been going on over the past 3 years, I've been at one point and part of that intention, going on an entrepreneurship loan, with an interest rate of 6.7 and or 8%, to round up the financial structure of an investment that with an intensity of approximately 50% are financed by EU funds is also a big bite for the entrepreneur especially for the one who is some kind of start-up or beginner. But we'll be back in 2015. So one fact that I'm apostrophealing as a good one, so of the 540 requests, 382. However, some of the elements and core business are still called this dictionary, which the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments deals with. These are micro loans, so micro loans are one of the great measures that started in the distant, distant years, but which in 2015 of the 189 applications received only released 34 of them. We also had a competition, i.e. I already said that the Croatian Agency for Small Economy is also an extended arm of the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship. And all of that I would say is a mining business that is not the strategic nature, so designing and defining projects, but only and exclusively the implementation of these projects has come to the conclusion that in the context of the measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the processing industry of 931 project applications, we only had 99 of them. It is also to the extent that the competitiveness of service activities of the total 883 applications received are strengthened. So, as at one point, I also found competitions that did not take place, so in 2015 it showed in this statistics that it had gone wrong somewhere. So, it was wrong in the design of the tender conditions, it was wrong at all to register the power of the entrepreneurs to call such tenders as our entrepreneurs can satisfy, and then we came up with the situation that we have positively solved the tender documents below 10%. So, all that followed as one cover and an attempt to step up towards a more substantial and far more aggressive performance towards the European Commission's funds in 2015, according to the financing of EU competitions and structural funds. Therefore, the funds that have been withdrawn are very modest, but there is no reason in 2017 to complain about what did not take place in 2015. As a club, we supported this report. I hope and pray, therefore, that in the 2016 report itself, and especially for 2017, the management of HAMAG is obliged to present the report to parliament representatives as a parallel display of three consecutive years, and after that we will be able to sort of combine the work of management which, at this time or before this administration, led Croatia's small economy agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40311	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40312	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Horvat in your presentation that the tenders were not adjusted according to the number of applications and the number of funds paid. We need to know that, first of all, something was changing in 2016 regarding the implementation of the competition itself. A lot of competitions went through the ministry in 2015, but another thing that matters more to me. So even though people said the conditions were rather rigorous, the hard to meet again appeared at 800, 900, 1000 companies. So it could've been reported, and people respected the conditions. The problem was, of course, the amount of funds which, in that transitional year 2015 in view of the financing and financing period 2014-2020, simply could not get that financial input as possible in 2017. And on the other hand, I'm sure, I think I'd be very surprised that HAMAG is now not going to have much more projects from EU funds because it should, it should. It was planned regardless of the government, no matter who led it, no matter how many other things. So, the programmes were planned, we had this transition from our funds to the EU. And what's important is that things go fluidly now and we try to do what's more to be done. And what I'm glad to hear is that I'll never hear in this assembly as examples from the Ministry of Agriculture. So, it's nice to meet you. People often said that in agriculture everything could have been, and that in entrepreneurship, the rotation could not have been much more difficult and that the criteria were a little stricter. I'm satisfied with the stricter criteria because I know that then those money we had and gave was used in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40313	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40314	Comrade Maras, part of your replica I can fully agree with. In 2015, therefore, all the support measures that took place were only and exclusively financed by the state budget, they entered those limits. And to make it even worse, they created a deficit in the state budget. The fact that out of 1,000 project applications, 99 of them end up as positive cannot be justified by the fact that in the competition we have reserved modest or almost non-essential 5 million kunas. But what is the fact in this whole story, so the tender documentation not only was not written for Croatian entrepreneurs, but in these tenders were created such conditions that additionally, from Croatian entrepreneurs, created the need for borrowing, payment of bank guarantees and similar documents, and then I must admit that the vast majority of them who received the rejections, not that they were not satisfied at all with the tender documentation, but had just complained that they had not even contacted what they needed. And then aware of the fact that we're producing competitions that I would say, not so uninteresting, but in such a way complex that the Croatian entrepreneur can't satisfy, creates the other one, I would say the opposite effect. Today, such tenders take place, I would say 5 times as many project applications and I would say the vast majority of these tenders are being concluded positively because they are being financed by EU funds, and these competitions that were around 5 in the 15th place are now at 250 million kuna. And that's one big difference between 2015 and 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40315	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia should speak to the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative of Kresho Beljak. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and then on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, he's going to speak to a respected representative, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40316	... When we talk about this agency, we talk about a very important tool, that our entrepreneurs and craftsmen especially small and medium when we listen to and economic recovery, everyone in their statements points out exactly their role in the recovery of the economic Republic of Croatia, essentially gets that part of the economic sector a very important tool. [[Specially enabled.]] In the report you received, you can see thousands of quality projects, or when you start only from the guarantees that were up to 380 to 1,000 projects, are done in one year, which have a great impasse both on employment and on investment and on the economy. What's important is to say, and I'm glad that the HDZ colleagues agree with it, that we're also going to the HAMAG BICRO that is now the agency, the idea was to try to focus and encourage a little bit into what is said to be more added value, to turn away from those projects that we had in 2007, 08', 09', which were not bad. Croatia is a agricultural country, but when we remember these projects through HBOR that went after certain farms in the end, it turned into an incentive for something that was unsustainable for our farmers, and in the end only those who had equipped those farms and who were doing those farms, which we now have throughout Croatia hundreds, unfortunately empty. We wanted with the concept of the agency to go in the direction of production, in the direction of industry of high added value, you will see some and pilot projects that we launched in 2015, among which some companies that have technologically grown in the past two years, i.e. in the next two years so much that they became technologically interesting, not only in Croatia but in the region, even in the whole world. As for the guarantees, what mattered to us was to go to guarantees and to banks. I also wish that we could talk a little bit now on the basis of the 2011 data, if we saw that the banks were very skeptical, commercial banks, according to the issue of HAMAG guarantees, and most often there was HBOR in combination, and in this report you see that there are banks that are on the market and that have recognised the service, or, in this way, the product of HAMAG, which has been funded by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with HBOR guarantees, which, of course, can be financed, but HBOR's assets are relatively limited and it is good to include the market that exists for entrepreneurs in this way. And the guarantees you see, which are issued, are 380 projects that were implemented in 2015 and 2016, which contributed to thousands of jobs and hundreds of millions of kuna investments. What I love always pointed out and why it's good for banks to include, commercial banks to engage in this process, not only HBOR, then you can see by me where payments are going according to the protested guarantees as a rule it's HBOR. Unfortunately, in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, the HBOR gave loans that were almost invaluable at the beginning, when you see 49 guarantees paid and activated, almost half of them in HBOR, then you are essentially clear on how it worked in some past periods. As far as portfolios are concerned, I am glad that guarantees are issued to almost all, or all counties, of course, there is always given the structure of the economy dominated by the city of Zagreb, but there are also counties that are less and more involved and this may be a question that was related to HAMAG and co-operation with the counties. So all 21 counties were included according to HAMAG, i.e. entrepreneurs and craftsmen from these counties. As for exposure by activity groups, we also see what is dominated by agriculture, forestry and fisheries are exactly these projects that I told you in 2007, the eighth, the ninth farming programmes, HBORs that are very hard to charge, and we will see what happened next years. Unfortunately, not only did our agriculture, dairy, but the most beneficial ones were those who equipped farms and imported equipment and, of course, those who were insured by guarantees for this loan which unfortunately was not on sound foundations, and the HBOR will bear the most in the future. Microcredit is something that was not quite revived in Croatia. This was the pilot programme after 2014 and 2015, it just started at 34, which is something that we can also use EU funds in the coming years, financial instruments and should be used more and more. We also set out to co-finance participation in the company's core capital. This is what I have already said to some companies that are also known as agiles on a global scale, so we must develop as a society and as an economy and a consciousness of investing in entrepreneurship and thus share in companies and thus enable a single market which unfortunately has not yet started in Croatia. But you can see that it was as expensive as the report and as an idea it made a lot of sense and it went in some direction. Now, was there more funds or less and can we pull more now? We can certainly because I say that the financial period has started in 2014. But what I am proud of is that HAMAG has laid sound foundations that I see and personally continue to work, and as long as it is so, it will have our support and therefore I support this report and we look forward to the fact that our entrepreneurs can benefit more and more from such an agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40317	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Dark Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40318	Well, here's the esteemed representative, three things that got me distracted. So one of your first sentences was, we had thousands of quality projects and I completely agree with you, but the Hamag administration based on the built-up rules of the contest approved and positively resolved only 10% of these requirements. On the other hand, the abolishing of more quality projects and programmes in 2007 and the eighth year, according to me, is the most qualitative project that the government of Kukuriku coalition has abolished, has been investing in the construction of entrepreneurship infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones, thereby directly and indirectly not allowing thousands of jobs to be opened. Positive examples from the Northwest Croatian Championships of Međimurje, Varazdinska, Krapina-Zagorje and Koprivnica-Krysjeva County have hundreds and that we have stopped the construction of entrepreneurship infrastructure and the completion of the infrastructure of entrepreneurship zones, thus reducing the competitiveness of these regions for attracting entrepreneurs. I will only briefly refer to loans granted through the HPB and HBOR Eighth, the ninth and tenth years related to the financing of the Agriculture Project. Well, colleague Maras, when you go into one investment, when you take out a loan, when you get a loan at a very high rate, I would say a non-competitive interest rate that is not competitive for an entrepreneur of 5% or 6%. So an entrepreneur can submit an interest rate in his financing of a project that is less than 3% and that was an intensity. But when, in half of the project, you bring down the feasibility of one administrative decision to the price of its product, which is the guaranteed purchase price of milk by 50%, you have administratively knocked down the feasibility of that project.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40319	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40320	Mr. Horvat, we are, I have analyzed these projects and I guarantee you that in HBOR they still lead as possible over 500 million kuna loans from agriculture and now you explain to me how it was physical and what bank it was. It was a purely political decision, just like a pure political decision to give credit to Jamna and Ledo, and you know that 19 billion kuna lies on them. So these are things you don't do. Cobankovic came in and said we'll have a project in agriculture, HBOR needs to come up with a credit line, and then these importers of those cow milking machines and make money, and our people are left with credits, mortgages on houses, etc. Talk to these people a little bit, and then you'll see that basically this whole model was designed to make someone, not make them and that they're doing something and more politically to sell as something we do in general in agriculture. The second thing, as far as the requirements and conditions are concerned, you mentioned guarantees, so normally I'm looking for guarantees before, and not after I approve support because after which I approve support then a man if he asks for guarantees then it guarantees that the project will be slower because many of them won't get a guarantee in the bank and then destroys the efficiency of the implementation of the project. I said that we had projects, that money wasn't for everything, but I'm sure it's faster and more efficient and that nobody's going to call me a farmer after that. The third thing I unfortunately won't have time to answer, it's important to develop the agency and develop the story from the beginning and I said more money is now, I expect much better results than it was in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40321	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Alan Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you were talking about loans to small entrepreneurs, guarantees and all that clear to me was one good loan with a favourable interest on our entrepreneurs. If you can, and you have experience and you were a minister, you know all about it together. Pull one parallel between credit and interest to entrepreneurs and guarantees and loans given to Agrokor to the group. That's how it always integrates me when I hear that the credits in Agrokor Group were on interest of 9, 10, 11 and 12% and that I believe that our citizens are interested in everything that's related to Agrokor Group because we're all going to feel the long consequences of that, I'd say not to mention malversions. Can you compare these interest rates given to entrepreneurs and guarantees and those interest given to Agrokor groups and guarantees that are on that day? Can we see what this is all about?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40323	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40324	I can pull the parallel, although I don't know what interest the last loans are granted to those who, by my deep conviction, are indemnity and who are the last in these claims that Agrokor now has, we're talking about 40 and a few billion kunas and the state in 12 months means only about eight months ago she approved nearly four hundred million kuna and that money has given up. It is enough for me that those who have approved it and know who is most responsible and who has been directed at all of it, although it says that it has been excluded, is responsible for our government, it obviously does not matter, for the citizens it is important, I think that people will never understand it and we will probably still talk about it in the coming months and years. But what I can tell you is that, here's that 30 and some credits we've seen that there's a great need for a team on the market, we wanted to show that people can get a loan and without some mortgage on real estate and something, we wanted to make it as easy as possible and we started with symbolic money. It was a few million kunas at first. So we were de facto with a single loan that Agrokor got from 400 million kuna at the end of last year we could do not 34 in 2015 but we could do 300, 400 of these small projects and companies. They could have hired a thousand people. And this is how we threw the money into the well so that someone, unfortunately, that company won't eventually return it, and it won't survive in this form it was in. But in order for someone to use their political influence and will, that's all. We're going to talk about this, and I believe that people are eventually going to get answers, which is why Agrokor got a 12-month loan, and the answers aren't the ones that are now being given, the answers are much deeper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40325	Thank you. The next replica is Irena Perievcanin Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40326	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Maras. I am not going to deal with individual cases, but when we read this report for 2015 and some previous reports from this agency, I am somehow forced to conclude that we come to what is important, therefore generally looking at and not individually from a bird perspective, of course we can discuss what fellow Horvat has said for further processing, so construction of tender documentation, etc., can it be better, why there are so few positive solutions and there are things that are commendable and there are things that are to be done. But first of all, why I support this report, it's kind of my first time reading, and I'm being forced to have HAMAG BICRO as an agency somehow spot that continuity. So that one government started, now insignificant that is government, the other went on in the sense that there were no brakes, obstructions, etc., of course it can always be better but this is kind of going on politely. And it seems to me, so now it's not an emphasis on who started it, it's an emphasis to continue and it's continuity. And we know there's not a single project, not a single government that's successful if it doesn't stick to continuity, in anything, we want from public administration reform, we want from projects, we want from agencies, so whatever segment we look at has to be continuity. And I think it's there, you'll probably agree with me, I guess, because it makes sense to see it there. And so, in every sense, I would support this report and of course we would support it. And this was the center you mentioned, and you mentioned it in your report, and a colleague mentioned it, so it's a very good example, it's impressive in terms of attracting funds. I wish there were more examples like that. I didn't exactly see 16.5m euros that there was anything else. Isn't that right? Here, so we still need that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40327	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40328	Thank you very much, colleague Irene, for your commendation. I agree with you. At this biocenter, we showed not only that the EU project could be completed and the money could be withdrawn, but we brought back two people, young scientists who went from Croatia to the world, the director, or the director of the centre was teaching in Finland, Helsinki, and that is something that should also be proud. And to HAMAG BICRO I'm particularly sensitive because it's my concept that I personally pushed through. So I wanted those agencies to unite, and when I see it going well, I'm glad. So on that side they'll always have my support. I'm a little subjective here, no matter what government she was. Because you'll let me, too, I'm human, I can have emotions sometimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40329	Thank you. The individual debate was attended by distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40330	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I think as the only, i.e. the first founder of an entrepreneurial support institution and the most successful in Split-Dalmatia County, which as a private business support institution has raised over 300, 350 entrepreneurs and craftsmen, I think I am the most relevant here to talk about this report especially in the case of HAMAG BICRO. I'll start with what's good about HAMAG BICRO, it's micro loan guarantees. So micro credit for beginners here is up to 120,000 kuna where... % for crafts and means of purchase of equipment for work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a good measure. Her big problem is she doesn't have enough budget for that measure, so she should have been much bigger and her other problem, that's what I see in the field and I can tell you, here I am, not the problem. And the other thing is lack of information. So beginner entrepreneurs don't know enough about this loan, and you should know and there's just a problem of entrepreneurial complete institutions or centres and incubators, you called it recognition centers, which should actually be your right hand, and they don't. Now that's another topic, and that's where we come up with the problem of engulfing an entrepreneurial complete institution where we have people who run these institutions and have never been in the real sector, so it's normal that they don't know what it is that entrepreneurs need, especially beginners, because then they would know that just for this credit and for guarantees all the beginners need to know. So I think that this problem of entrepreneurship centres could be controlled by you, so you can put a lot more pressure on them on their work, so they can and must do better than they do now. Another thing about the networking of HAMAG and other institutions, we do not realize that in the Republic of Croatia the state service and the word service itself says that they should be at the service of citizens, so they should be the service of citizens, it doesn't happen very often, so here's how they do about the networking of HAMAG with other state institutions, specifically with HABOR, I get to take a guarantee in HAMAG, then they ask me if I've settled all my obligations to HABOR or to another incentive that I've received. So, it's not the point that I take a year as an entrepreneur, so I go from institution to institution for six days to get all that evidence and bring it to you, but the point is that you network, find some program, tool, solve, that all these institutions are networked, that when I come, that you know, it's Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, yeah, she has a guarantee, she has in HABOR credit, she's got a boost from the E-impulse, she can't get it, she can't. So you have to do it. You can't expect from entrepreneurs because it's not our job, it's your job. The second thing, on the e-impulse evaluation, so we all know that the pulse came out at the 9th month, the deadline was a month if I'm not mistaken, it's usually a super competition exclusively for small and micro entrepreneurs, but the deadline for the results of that contest was 120 days, so you moved it to 180, now it's more than 250 days. I believe that, I have also asked a representative question, so I expect that answer, too, I think that entrepreneurs who, by their very work, separate most of their incomes through contributions and taxes exactly in the state service, then expect, not to expect but the least we can do is know who these people are evaluating them. Who are these people who are 250 days late for evaluation? Because one entrepreneur gets an incentive after 10 months, he shut down and opened the company five times in those 10 months, so it's micro-enterprises, meaning a month, let alone 10 months. On this evaluation, I also believe that, apart from being 250 days late, about a week ago, the rejections began to arrive, I'm going to say very strange rejections, because there happens to be 60 points passing through, and all the rejections are at some 58, 59 points. So I'm interested in why entrepreneurs who, therefore, create values and who give their income to most civil servants, how is it that they can't get an insight into who these people are, so by sector, by work experience, by evaluation, by experience, by experience of the flat sector, who are these people who evaluate their applications by which they get 2 or 3 points less than that threshold? So entrepreneurs are people who allow evaluators to reject them, so they have the right to know why. What are the specific reasons? It's not transparent, and we need to put an end to it. So that's what we need to work on, and we need to do it on an urgent basis. I will repeat once again, so since HAMAG BICRO is in charge of this evaluation, the evaluation is already over 100 days late. And the last point that is most important to me because I have just been through my entrepreneurial complete institution 4 innovations, 3 are already on the world market, none of these innovations have ever received any support in its beginnings, precisely because it can't go through these default criteria that you give to innovators, here I have statistical data, in the economic sector, 96 applications, 21 has been allocated. I will give you an example, so the innovators who have already passed the Croatian market and entered the European market, their refusal to the POC contest was just rejected for the reason that their innovation was actually part of their graduate work. We complained, but of course, it didn't pass. These are young people, the four who already have 6 employees, who are pushing their innovation into the European market, these are situations that cannot happen in our country. So, if we're not going to encourage innovators, young and micro and small entrepreneurship then as far as I'm concerned, all of these agencies can be closed freely because we have the Agrokora di case, we see that no strategy or economy or the large-scale economy has brought us anywhere, and only what is right and what can lead us, or what can develop this economy in this country is just a little, micro, and we can say middle entrepreneurship. And we're not doing enough to encourage micro and small entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40331	Thank you. We have a replica of one, a respected representative of Vlaha Orepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40332	I'll just use this replica and ask one simple question. How much total drive does the agency you're headed cost in self-preservation? So, for total work means how much the total agency costs in terms of maintenance of total drive and work, and does that justify what it's intended for? [[Intruder Reiner: Col. Orepić, the purpose of the replica is to replicate to colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, not...]] Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40333	Thank you, colleague Orepic. Well, here we have the president of the HAMAG administration here, so I hope we get an answer to this question, and I think the question really stands, but if we have an agency that costs us some money, then at least 10 times that has to justify it on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40334	Okay, it's against the Rules of Procedure, but here it is, the esteemed president of the HAMAG administration, the faithful Vrbanec, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40335	Thank you. Thus, the final or answer questions asked. So first question of networking. You're right 100%. So, I've been in HAMAG for a year, and I've been clear about this antagonism between state institutions dealing with the same or similar business. In the last three months, on my initiative, we've been reflecting regular meetings, HABOR administration, HAMAG and HPB administration. So we can come up with some kind of joint programs, where we can be compatible with each other, so we issue guarantees, HABOR and HPB credit, quite logically and normally. So I'm trying to make things right as much as possible. As far as support is concerned, so the Ministry of Finance, as far as I know, and so I know it's working on a program that would all be supported, state support sublime one of the OIBs so that entrepreneurs shouldn't be harassed by meeting those joint statements and patterns that they themselves say under full material, criminal responsibility whether they got de minimis support, whether they participated in any other programmes. I agree completely, the question is completely in place. I hope for the well-being of every entrepreneur, as well as us from institutions that we work and process that we have synthesized all the data in one and the same place. E-impulse, Hamag Bicro took over 27.12. E-impulse. So we've completed phase two evaluation. Since you are in trouble, you know for yourself that the names, names of the evaluators and members, and especially the members of the board, are secret. So, in order to avoid contamination and possibility, this is an e-regulatory that we cannot influence. So you know yourself that evaluators are not names that communicate. But I assure you that we have done more or less, so that this evaluation goes on in a relatively fast time. So we're talking about 1099 applications, 250 million kuna, so of course it took some time for us to carry out an administrative quality check and a quality check and just an evaluation which is contrary again to regulation and our common draft rules. I really don't know what happened this time. But if the fact that today these people, or this entrepreneur, are giving on the European market, I assume that someone in one chain of decision-making or evaluation of the idea itself has made a mistake, we are not running away from it, we are not running away from it. But that's why it's called... So, uh... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] as such a very risky instrument, so it can pass and it doesn't have to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, I guess I know you're into it, so I don't have to tell you the details of what it is... And what he really means is for an innovative, young entrepreneur. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Oh, no? It's a matter of budget, or a matter of cost. So in 2015 just here I have that budget was 162 million kuna in 2015. It's 100% state budget. We have now been doing a budget projection for 2018, so we are now at 75% of EU funding. So we're costing the state, so I'm looking at the limits. We have about 20 or 30 million kuna from the state budget. All this... revenue from European funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 70, at this point 75% of all our salary costs, computers, leases, rents, so we transferred all the material costs to EU funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40336	That would be the conclusion of the debate. We will vote when the conditions are met, and we will continue for protocol reasons a little later, so at 15.30 and will be at the turn of the 2015 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40337	Annual report by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments HAMAG BICRO for 2015. The applicant is the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The annual report by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments of HAMAG BICRO for 2015 is accepted." I find that with 117 votes in favour and 2 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40338	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:30 A.M.]] We continue with the afternoon work of the Assembly session. The debate was opened on the work report and the business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2015 and I ask the applicant to give an additional explanation, director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office Mr. Josip Aladrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40339	Dear Vice President. Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs. Peace insurance is a key element of the social state and social security system in the Republic of Croatia. Within the framework of the pension system, social security is achieved by more than one million and 200 thousand pensioners and members of their family, and therefore the report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is always interesting to the general public and a valuable source of data that materially goes beyond the framework of the pension system itself. So this report was drawn up by the same methodology as previous years' reports, and with a purpose to make the data comparable. The report contains the usual chapters on the state of the system, the pension insurance of intergenerational solidarity, the establishment of the institute itself, and its human potential and information technology. The report shall also include a report on the work of the Governing Council, financial operations, the portfolio of the Institute, and, of course, in the exercise of the right and the work of the professional service. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is a public institution with public powers to resolve pension insurance rights and obligations, established by the Pension Insurance Act, which regulates compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. Other parts of the pension insurance system in the Republic of Croatia are governed by special laws. When we talk about 2015, we are talking about the implementation and the classic jobs that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is dealing with, but also about two projects that were intervening in 2015. It is the separation of pensions for users who are determined, or are made under specific rules, according to more favourable conditions, to a part of the pension made according to a specific regulation and part of the pension achieved on the basis of the insurance standings covered by the contributions. The second major project which has been carried out and translated disability pensions into retirement pensions in accordance with Article 175(7). Pension Insurance Act. In addition to the above, activities and activities have been carried out to adjust business in the new conditions and the implementation of the medical skill process at the Office for the Skills of Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. In addition, projects that expanded the field of electronic business of the Institute were worked on in parallel. Here, first of all, I'm thinking of downloading the data... to exercise the right to compensation for children and to exchange data on the fact of death with foreign insurance undertakings in order to prevent, avoid pension payments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, in order to prevent non-retired payment pensions due to the death of users during 2015, an electronic exchange of data on the fact of death between institutions and foreign pension insurance holders has been established. In particular, this is where we refer to the Federal Republic of Germany, Serbia, Montenegro, BIH, and for Croatian pensioners residing in those countries and for foreign pensioners residing in the Republic of Croatia. A few words, therefore, about the state of pension insurance itself, intergenerational solidarity at the end of 2015. The Institute registered a million and 228 thousand users and a million and 413 thousand insurance companies on 31 December 2015. So the ratio that we're talking about about about users and insurance is 1 versus 1.15. Out of the million and 228 thousand pensioners, 776 thousand were benefiting from age pensions and disability pensions received 207,000 users, and family peace, 245,000 users. In 2015, a total of 49,000 new pensions were made, of which 36,000 old and early age and 2000 disabled and 11,000 family pensions, which is 4.4% lower than in 2014. The decline in the number of new users of disability pensions started in 2012 was also continued and in 2015 the number of new users of disability pensions was 2 thousand and 102 working in 2008 and 2009. Statistics show that in 2015, users of an old peace period had an average of 32 years of retirement, early retirement pensioners for 36 years, while disabled pensioners had 22 years of training. The average pension rate, for all pensioners, was 30 years, has increased by two years in the last 15 years. In 2015, the average age of beneficiaries of the peace pension under the Pension Insurance Act was 70 years and two months, the average age of users of the retirement pension was 71 years and 7 months, and the user of the disability pension, 59 years and 1 month, and the user of the family pension 71 years and 9 months. In the total number of pension beneficiaries under the Pension Insurance Act, the largest number of users is in the age group 65 to 69 years, while the share in younger age groups is slightly reduced. In 2015, the multi-annual trend of increasing the average duration of use of the pension was continued, with an average use of the retirement pension of 20 years and 5 months, while the average duration of the disability pension was 18 years and 8 months. In 2015, pensions are harmonised by 0.3% other than pensions, i.e. part of pensions made, i.e. under more favourable conditions financed from the state budget, and their harmonisation is conditional on more favourable economic developments. The share of pension expenditure in the gross domestic product in 2015 increased from 11.19% in 2014 to 11.57%. The average pension achieved under the Pension Insurance Act for December 2015 was 2237 kuna and the average pension rate in the average net salary was 38.77%. The average pension achieved under the Pension Insurance Act without pensions achieved by the application of international social insurance contracts for December 2015 was 2481 kuna and 58 June or 42.99% of the average salary. The average retirement pension for December 2015 was 2469 kuna and 6 lipa, which was 42.78% of the average net salary, and the average retirement pension without pensions achieved under international social insurance contracts was 2800 kuna 76 lipa or 48.52% of the average net salary. In international publications, the average pension is mostly referred to as the average retirement pension for full-time workers and independent professions. According to this criterion, the retirement pension with a pension rate of 40 and more years on 31 December 2015 without pensions under international social insurance contracts was 4113 kuna and 74 June and 71.27% of the average net salary. However, the number of these users or distributions of these users in total is only 7.83%. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute also implements the procedures for the exercise of the right to compensation for children. In 2015, children benefitted from an average of 188236 users for an average of 352785 children. Total in 2015, a billion kuna and 588 million kuna were spent for child allowance. As for the financial operations of the Institute, the total revenues of the institutions in 2015 amounted to €38.68 billion, and expenditures amounted to €38.68 billion, so there was a difference in the third decimal. The revenue from the contribution amounted to HRK 20,798 billion and accounted for 53,76% of the total revenues achieved in 2015, while the revenues from the budget amounted to HRK 17,703 billion and 45,76% of total revenues respectively. Compared to 2014, revenues from the contribution are lower by a billion and 533 million kuna or 6.87% due to the withdrawal of funds from the second to the first pension column for insurance companies with the benefited internship. In accordance with the provisions of the Mandatory Pension Funds Act of June 2014 amounting to €3.07 billion and €1.26 billion in November 2015. The revenue from the contribution in 2015 compared to 2014 with the amounts raised from the second pension pillar increased by 271 million kuna or 1.41%. In the total expenditure structure, pension and pension income expenditures amounted to 36,682 billion kuna or 94.83% of total expenditure, compared to 2014 increased by 0.87%. The financial expenditure in 2015 amounted to HRK 39.59 million and 0.1% of all expenditure, and compared to 2014 is lower by 16.37% primarily the reason why smaller expenditure is to change the contract with the Croatian Post office from February 2014 where there is a significant reduction in pension compensation and is due to a contract concluded with Erste and Steirmerkische bank for the payment of pension benefits and allowances for children abroad users. The operating expenditure of the Institute is therefore the expenditure on staff and material expenditure for 2015 amounted to €353 million, which accounts for 96.43% of planned operating expenditure, and compared to 2014 is lower by 4.05% and approximately 15 million kuna respectively. Material expenditure in 2015 amounted to 85 million and 400 thousand kuna and accounted for 93.51% of planned material expenditure. They increased by 0.83% compared to 2014. The most significant expenditure concerns expenditure on services that are higher by 8.24% compared to the previous year, and due to the increase in expenditure on postal services. In addition, due to regular mailing services, the Institute had increased the cost of sending the solution and informing the pensioners for which the separation of pensions was carried out and of sending the solution to the users in relation to the translation of disability pensions. The reduction in costs relative to 2014 refers to the costs of employees by 22.6% due to the reduction in the number of employees, while the costs for material and energy are lower by 1.28% due to the savings made. Costs for employees in 2015 amounted to 267 million kuna and amounted to 97.4% of planned expenditure for employees and 0.69% of total expenditure of institutions compared to 2014 are lower by 15 million kuna. The expenditure on gross earnings has been reduced by 7.33% due to a reduction in the average number of 199 employees compared to 2014; therefore, the majority of this reduction in staff refers to the transfer of staff to the Office for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. As regards the staff of the Institute itself, therefore, in the implementation of pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity in 2015, 469961 of which 451339 is required in the first instance, and 18622 of the requirements being resolved in the second degree were submitted. Of these, there were 244 000 and 193 children's allowance applications in the second stage of 577. In 2015, 522 000 145 pension insurance rights requirements were resolved when we talk about foreign and foreign insurance and child benefits, of which 451 000 263 claims were resolved, and 86.42%, respectively. These jobs were carried out by the Bureau with 6.41% less employees than in 2014. At the end of 2014, there were 2853 employees and at the end of 2015. 172 less or 2681, respectively. Regardless of the new jobs that were in force under the legislation, the number of employees has been continuously reduced, primarily by natural outflows, with the maximum engagement of internal reserves, redistribution of jobs. In the 4 years preceding 2015, the number of employees was reduced by 15%. As of 1 January 2015, a total of 98 employees and on the basis of Article 11(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013, the Office for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities took over from 1 January 2015. The law on a unique body of art. For the other 136 employees, the job contract is terminated, mostly due to retirement and 62 new employees were adopted in 2015, with the consent of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Important jobs and projects completed in 2015 primarily relate to improving the work and business of the Institute. According to the annual plan of the Institute for 2015, a number of projects related to the implementation of the rules governing the pension insurance of generation solidarity as well as those relating to the improvement and rationalisation of parts of the business process have been completed. In particular, large-scale operations under the implementation of the Pension Insurance Act have been carried out by the Institute, which are the separation of pensions by part of the specific regulation and part of the pensions achieved, part of the pensions made on the basis of contributions covered by contributions and the translation of disability pensions to retirement pensions and in accordance with Article 175(7) of the Law. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area. Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act. In 2015, the Bureau also carried out all transactions related to the payment of one-off monetary income to pension beneficiaries in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Decision on the payment of one-off monetary income from the funds belonging to the Republic of Croatia as a member of the pension fund. A significant qualitative shift has been achieved in the context of the settlement of the right to child allowance by enabling the acquisition of SI PPD data of the income of natural persons, invoiced and tax paid on income and income tax and the obligation to contribute. According to the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration has made it possible for the Institute to access the data from the income and income records system. Data shall be exchanged by electronic data access system, real-time data exchange and data delivery, data processing for a specified period and for the purposes of the institute. In 2015, there were major changes in the field of medical skills, and the Institute had to adapt its business to the new conditions of implementation of the medically trained procedure at the Office of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation, Employment of Persons with Disabilities. In the context of the adoption of a policy of maximum use of the potential of electronic business importance, they have been given special importance jobs to establish or expand electronic data exchange with state and public institutions as well as with foreign pension insurance holders. In particular, there was intensive cooperation with foreign insurance companies to prevent non-payments of pensions, and as I mentioned earlier in order to prevent non-retiremental pensions due to the death of users in 2015 an electronic exchange of data on the fact of death between institutions and foreign pension insurance holders was established. In particular, this applies to the Federal Republic of Germany, Serbia, Montenegro, BiH and to Croatian pensioners residing in those countries and to foreign pensioners residing in the Republic of Croatia. We can conclude that in 2015 all jobs were done within some fixed deadlines and according to the planned dynamics. Current savings have been achieved by reducing the number of employees and professional service costs have been reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40340	Thank you. We have a replica of Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40341	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State, for the report you've read to us. Director, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Director.]] I'm interested in one question that your report has no answer and, namely, how many salaries do pension fund presidents have, what are the members of the board's salary? It is said that these salaries are far higher even than the president's salary, some say it is worth 10,000 euros. So I'd like to know since here's what I'm paying in II. Do you have any information on what these salaries are? And for the sake of the public, can you get an answer now or later in writing if I ask a representative question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40343	I thank you for asking. So since we are talking here about the report of the Institute for 2015, the law implements, so the Office is an implementing body that deals with the first pillar and really does not affect business II. That's why it's not in the Bureau's office at all. So these questions that you're asking, I think they're meant for some other address.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40344	Thank you. We're starting a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Live Wall Club and SNAGA representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40345	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, during the debate on the Report of the Pension Fund, it is logical to ask the question of how Croatian pensioners live today. As we can see from the report, despite the huge separations given by the Croatian state, pensioners have miserable pensions. The average is around 2245 kuna, however, about 76% of pensioners receive less than 1682 kuna. 50% of them receive less than 1233 kuna, and as many as 68,000 receive a pension of less than 500 kuna, I repeat, less than 500 kuna. Croatia is recognised by the poverty of pensioners, the leading country in Europe, even by the haired statistics, that 32% of pensioners live in poverty. In particular, women whose pensions are still about 15% lower than men's pensions are affected. We can see that pensioners cannot take care of themselves and can't afford their own homes, because there are no places in their homes, those owned by the state are waiting for 8 and more years, so the pensioners are forced to go to the privates who take everything they have, the whole pension, and often to participate in paying their homes must also children, relatives, brothers or sisters. We've heard that many of these pensioners have to go so-called. We've been able to track the professor's report from law school, what all the abuses are going on in this system, we've heard that the pensioners are kept locked up in rooms, all day long, no Internet, no phone, no television, no society, no laundry, no haircuts, no doctors, they're hungry, they're verbally harassed and often beaten. Especially mental patients. Yes, gentlemen, the pensioners are hungry. In this Croatia, which at first is the Constitution of the social state, people who have worked their lives honestly, and tomorrow you will be among them, starving. The clothes don't buy, sometimes. Once in 10 years, if they afford to buy a coat, a shoe, a dress, and most wear what they used to wear or borrow, they get it, they do it in different ways. The salary or pension in Croatia today is only 39% of the average wage with the trend of falling, as Minister Maric reduced their pension issues by his tax reform, so he further reduced the money he spends each year for pensions. While Croatia has a 39% salary average, even in Macedonia it is 60%. There is 60% in Montenegro, in BiH, which we take for some example for the rest of the country because of various problems, because of the war situation is 44%. All of this at the moment when the state is experiencing a demographic disaster, and when we have a ratio of employees and pensioners 1.15 to 1, it means 1.15 employees versus 1 pensioners, not so long ago, 10 years ago it was 1.41, and 30 years ago to remind any 3 employees, one pensioner. According to the report published, on the Economic and Social Council, Croatia needs 36 billion kuna per year and 10.7% of the budget from which only 54% of the contributions are collected. Every month, 46% of pension funds are missing. This means, translated, that Croatia needs a million employees, a million new employees, in order for the pension system to be sustainable. If we were currently all 200000 unemployed, if we could even get those 200000 out of the country to work here, the pension system would still be unsustainable. That's the current situation with our pension system. And it's indecisive. Here is even Mr. Hrelja, who was engaged in the pensioners, tried to negotiate with the prime minister, but even for his valuable vote, the prime minister did not want to meet him, or the pensioners. The Economic and Social Council held yesterday shows that the government has no solution, so it reaches again for poor measures, and one of them is the announcement of an increase in the isolation of the second pillar, the abolition of the benefits, the extension of the retirement age, and even the re-employment of existing pensioners. It's already happening in practice. See for example. according to Zagreb who drives taxis, mostly people retired. Currently, the EU is asking us to increase the retirement age to 67 years, which is urgently required. But Germany itself proposes to retire at the age of 73, although all serious scientific studies show that every man aged 71 suffers a minor or greater health deficit, which means he is unable to carry out a full - time job. In all this catastrophic statistics, the government leads politics through pensions instead of solving problems. The government buys certain social groups, i.e. buying social peace. We in Croatia have 180000 preferential pensions, 180000. Who doesn't all get privileged pensions? Members of the intelligence service, 18,000 partisans and 9,000 natives and Ustashas, and who not all, politicians, various other groups. We have one-quarter disability pensions that makes us absolute recordmakers in Europe. And now if someone thinks that I want to apostrophe the special defense pensions here, no, not to single out all defense pensions from the Peace Fund system we're still leading by the number of disability pensions. And why is that? Because people were retired because they could not be given jobs to prevent social unrest. And the largest number of just such pensions was in 2008 and 2009 and 2007. This, therefore, shows that Croatia is on the very threshold of the Greek scenario. What's the Greek script we're all so afraid of? The Greek script is the moment when pensions began to shrink in Greece. The moment they began to shrink in Greece's pensions, and let's not forget, Greeks have an average pension of 850 euros, not 200 euros at that time, the people went to the streets. Our government does not want to face this possibility, and this policy as it leads and as it itself confirmed yesterday on the Economic Social Council on which it took part and ministers indicate that such a scenario is very close. The Croatian government is going through pension funds through the pension system through Agrokor. Problems are pushed under the carpet until the moment someone finally has to face the fact that the pension money will no longer be. Is this the moment when the number of employees will fall below the number of pensioners, is this the moment when mass announced cancellations in Konzum will happen which we could also listen to these days. But it is inevitable that Croatia will also have to kneel before foreign banks even more humbly than it has kneeled over the past month without foreign loans, without total humility, without the complete sale of Croatian pension funds. And this is all because our government has no courage to break the import lobby, no courage to break the monopoly of foreign banks, no courage to implement monetary and fiscal reform, no courage to break debt slavery, abolish the executive law, and therefore many citizens are rightly wondering whether we will ever experience pensions or even whether our pensions will exist in the future at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40346	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first replica representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40347	Dear counterpart Bunjac, you have done much in this debate to address the current political situation or report where we are all discussing here the report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2015. Because first of all, I don't want to have an offensive debate about the condition and the pensioners, because I think we all have more or less parents that we care about and it's not true that they're not being washed and being abused, etc. There are cases, but it's not a general condition. Secondly, you can show statistics any way you want. I can show you if you want after this two, three times where statistics can be worse and where they can be better but that's not the point. The essence of this debate should be whether we will create expectations that the pension system, i.e. the Croatian Pension Insurance and Pensions Institute, can solve all of Croatia's social problems, or whether the pension is consequently linked to the contributions of workers throughout the year and that it fundamentally determines the amount of pension. So we need to decide which way to go. Because if we put everything in the same pot then it will be, then it will sound populistly nice, but the question of whether or not we're going to touch the essence. The only thing I agree with you is to correct you. The government with pensions under special regulations does not buy social peace because they are usually high pensions, but buys political measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40348	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40349	Thank you very much. I would first of all like to tell you that I was talking about foster and foster families, and I spoke on the basis of a scientific study done by the professors of law school, which has 130 pages, which is publicly published by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, which I have down at the Club of Representatives, and if you want to read it, I will gladly give it to you. So I wasn't talking about pensioners in general, I was talking about a special group of pensioners. The second thing you said was that the Peace Institute, therefore, the Peace Institute is not really able to solve the problems of the pensioners, but rather the Croatian Government. Here you are trying to negotiate with the government to improve the situation of the pensioners and how did you go? Not good. So you haven't been able to agree or some kind of minimum project as you said yourself, because this government simply doesn't know how to solve these problems. In order for this government to solve these problems, it would have to have courage and simply have courage. So we're out for pensions just enough. Look at your payroll, so look at the percentages we give, so the state has a huge separation, but that money's going somewhere. That money's being spent somewhere. I wanted to open a discussion from the second pension post and generally about the pension payment, so maybe I'll do it through an individual debate later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40350	Thank you. Next replica representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40351	Dear counterpart Bunjac, if you have taken a good look at this year's report, then on page 7, you can see that there are old retirement pensions in 2015. 600 thousand 186, that early 170 thousand 715, disabled 134 thousand 665 and the users of family pensions are 229 thousand 600. So mostly most of them are more than half of them are retirement pensions. It's obvious to you that this government, which didn't allow what you're announcing so dramaticly, that there were cancellations in Konzum and so on, a lot more would have happened if this government hadn't dealt with Konzum, Agrokora and similar, so these cancellations and problematic contracts, i.e., problematic and catastrophic situations would have been much more. It is fortunate that someone who is reasonable, and primarily this government has dealt with and entertained, solves problems, and you will not be able to see these disastrous announcements. What's a bigger problem with other employee structures, for example. You can't get any new anesthesiologists in any KGB. That's the problem, because that means no one answered the competition, and we need these personnel, and we need to hire people who are already retired so they don't put up with the whole health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40352	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40353	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Peric, well that you have read page 7 of this report, but you could read the entire report and among other things you would find that one part of the disability pensions, namely 85,000 of them as retirement pensions. So that's again one statistic which, therefore, is embellished to the public. One part of age pensions are therefore disability pensions and this report clearly states. What I can agree with you is that it's not only this government's fault with the pension situation, it's almost all the previous governments, the statistics we've been looking at, practically the last two decades, it's only one direction, it's really amazing, and that's the direction in the sink, so of the three employees we had in the pensioner's early 90s, we now hear that we have 1.15 with the tendency to fall. Also, the pensioner's standard is getting lower, so the pensioners have a little bit more kuna in their accounts, but they're getting harder and harder to pay direction, they're getting harder and harder to buy food. Sometimes the pensioners could afford some things like going to the movies, maybe even going to the sea, going to shows, concerts, today the vast majority of the pensioners can only dream of, and that is, the problem they will have to face. It has nothing to do with Branimir Bunjc, or the Living Wall, or the disaster, it simply has to do with common sense. Go among the pensioners, ask them how they live, and they will generally tell you that they feel played, that they feel humiliated, that they feel unhappy, that they are very concerned, I really, in Croatia know very few pensioners, perhaps those couple with privileged pensions that can today say they live well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40354	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative club, MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40355	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Madam and Gentlemen Representatives. Before I refer to the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, I must correct the Director, so 2014 billion and several hundred million kunas that have been withdrawn from the second pension column, are not withdrawn from the name of our insurance companies that have an unfettered work experience, but are based on the fact that employees have a special law called the Pension Rights Act, employees of military personnel, police officers, therefore those working in prisons and services, intelligence services, and they have the right to pension under that law, if they want to accept those pensions, are always bigger than those pensions from the first and second pillars, and therefore there has been no confusion since 2002, because no members of these groups have so far made a pension under the Pension Insurance Act, so from the first and second pension pillar, so that it is an adjustment to not be made. In front of you is the HZMO Report containing the usual chapters, the opening presentation of the director was usually dry with numbers, but I think that here we should look back at the pension system and the situation in the pension system to talk in this House about what should be done and what should be done in the future with the pension system. We're talking about 2015, it was a long time ago and that anything we comment on about this report has been completely declassified and long ago, and what I think we need to talk about is the pension system itself and what's been going on since 2015. When we talk about harmonising pensions then in 2010 and 2011, so there was no harmonisation of pensions, and since the HDZ government decided not to comply with pensions since 2012, it was clear in that procedure which was possible by means of a formula under the Pension Insurance Act, so that 2015 was more consistent 0.3%, 2016. 081%), and in January 2017. 0.76%. Relatively a little harmonisation, but the reason why our salaries didn't grow and the cost of our lives didn't grow at the rate that would allow pensions to increase it. And what we need to think about in the future is that pensions are increased linearly, and that means that they are found in the money system that all pensions in a certain percentage are going up, because we have to say that pensions themselves are extremely low, especially for our pensioners who leave less than 40 years of work. The problem in this is the number of employees who are now 1:22 because we have a lot of employees in seasonal tourism business, we hope that there will be a larger number of employees, so the income of the Pension Insurance Office will be much greater. But some trends that have been launched since 2015 suggest that neither the Government nor the Government in 2016, nor this Government, have much to do with the pension system because, as you know, the National Reform Plan has been adopted, or they know what they would do but they are doing it at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, at the expense of the pensioners themselves. These are the requirements that the European Commission put before our country and the Government were both in 2012 and in '13. And in '14. but we got rid of it, and we didn't want those changes to happen in the pension system, just because they don't fit our situation and that's not what they should be doing in the pension system. Therefore, we decided then that the extension of the retirement age will be 67 years old, but only 2030, and the reason is that our harmonising of women to retire is still in place and it will take some time until 2030 to reach men and one attempt to reduce or accelerate that harmonisation will lead to women being in an unfavourable position, that they will retire much faster than men, which means very plasticly that if adopted, I hope that this proposal will not come to the Assembly. If it is adopted that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have three years less enjoyment of the earned pension because, in numbers, 10 to 15% of their pension will be paid less and 220 to 330 kuna respectively will be paid to those people who are if the Government decides on this drastic step paid less. On the other hand, the pension is projected to be retired much bigger than it is now and when you look at it then you see that it is similar to German penalization, but unlike Germany, our pensioners, or our people who leave early retirement, are not leaving because they want to, but because they lose their jobs and cannot get a job, which leads to an early retirement, is there no other way to ensure their existence for life. What the government is doing in this reform programme is that these people are going to retire even more, that they are going to be poorer but they are doing another crime against the pension system because the announcement that this is going to happen will lead to all those who have the conditions to retire so that the pension that is now also relatively high will go into early retirement this year. This happened in 2010 when the government of Jadranka Kosor only announced that pensioning would increase 10,000 people to early retirement. I hope that doesn't happen now. The current HDZ Government has also amended the Pension Insurance Act, which abolished the separation of pensions under the law, so that all those who have pensions under special laws know exactly how much an internship is earned through the Pension Insurance Act, so... a working internship, and how much is earned under this particular law. And it was a good system that simply shows that people who have pensions under special laws have a lot of work experience, that people have worked. This was especially important for our defenders, because there is this syntagma that defenders don't have a day's work. They have a lot of work experience and this has proved in this separation that most of them have a significant number of years of work experience over, so let's call it part of the labor pension. For some reasons, however, the government abolished and led to changes in the pension system in the sense that the cost of the pension system would now rise. And that's growing in 2017 by about 1.1%. After that, the alignment will continue. And what does that mean? This means that in 2017, it will be necessary to allocate 127 million kuna in 2018. 205, in 2019 and the following years even more. The Institute has made these changes, as you know, increased costs for issuing solutions and returning to the old system, however it is obvious that it was only done for reasons to allow in some way people who received pensions under the Law on, by these special laws in some way fraud. Because let me remind you, in Article 88. The Retirement Insurance Act of Article 89(2) makes it very clear that pensions will return to that level when in each of the three previous consecutive quarters of GDP is 2% and the government budget deficit is less than 3%, so this year, however, I do not see this harmonisation. And on the enquiries that were in HZMO as far as I can tell, the answer was going to be, we don't know yet, but it's not yet up to it. I think the law is very clear. When GDP is greater than 2 and the government budget deficit is less than 3 it is necessary to implement what is in the law and obviously that the HDZ government did not do so, I hope it will have a good explanation why it did not. And another thing that's going to burden the pension system is what's been going on for the past month and a half, and these are those famous pensions of HVO members. So it is true that the law passed by the government of Ivo Sanader has also been brought into the pension system by disabled HVOs because their pensions in BiH were small. And it is decided to receive part of the pension from the Republic of Croatia. Both Mr. Djakic and Mrs. Kosor were the ones who therefore participated in these processes. And then, as far as I know, there were only 2,000, that there are supposed to be about 2,000 people who are supposed to be getting those pensions. According to the information we have today, about 6 thousand 815 people with an average disability of about 2500 kuna, some estimates are that there are even more. It's a little unusual for everyone to have confirmation that they were wounded in the southern battlefield. Everyone has a certificate signed by General Ljuba Cesic Rojsa and they are never skilled in Croatia but have recognised BiH skills. I don't mind that we, the people who have been at war with us, recognize part of the disability pension, but I think everything should be as clear and transparent as we treat our defenders and our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The annual cost is around 150 million and is paid since 2007 and the rights are otherwise recognised retrogradely, and that debt, former Minister Ćoric, has decided to settle from the funds received by the Pension Insurance Office on the basis of the repayment of funds from the pension systems of the countries to which we pay our pensions. And in my humble opinion, these are state budget funds, not HZMO funds. They've already been transferred from the state budget to HZMO once. He paid off pensions in Serbia, BiH, Macedonia and already some other countries, and then that system according to the agreements, that part of the funding is returning and that 85 million in any case cannot be income from HZMO, but is income from the state budget and we could use it to increase pensions. I note that, for this chair when it was behind and behind this microphone, Minister Maric clearly said when he defended the 2017 budget that the debt to these pensioners had no funds in the state budget, so this is a creative, creative way of trying to buy people's affection in BiH in some way. And finally, the decision on the basis of which former Minister Coric conducted this transaction was the decision of the former government of Prime Minister Oreskovic when the minister was Dr. Šikić, the decision was taken on 12 October 2016. 4 months after the government's resignation and a month after the election ended at the government's last session. And not to say that this decision is contrary to Article 5. The Act on the procedure is subject to the handover of authorities which prohibits the Government from making decisions affecting the state budget after its recall and resignation. Here, so much for the things that are happening to us. Thank you very much, and I hope that the institute will continue on this path that it has taken so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40356	Here's something else you'll have to say. 4 replicas are on your exhibit, the first replica of the representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40357	Dear fellow Mrsic, you have confirmed by your debate the rule "One Minister, Always Minister", because you have been talking about the system, the deviation of the system, the law on pension insurance, the special laws, the laws on defenders, the law that regulates HVO pensions, etc., and we are here today discussing the report on the work of the Croatian Public Institution for Pension Insurance, which works in these premises for 94 years and at least we have to say whether this institution with its 2500 people in 2015 did a good job or did a bad job. We are assessing their work today, whether all the legal provisions have been implemented, whether they have given all the insurance or pensioners who asked them for the service an appropriate service. Whether they had enough money to take care of their properties because their properties are insurance property, so current pensioners and workers of the Republic of Croatia, it is wrong to claim that this is state property. Therefore, I expect that we will give a little more attention in the further debate to a public institution that employs more than 2,500 people who must be, who are public service to citizens, this is interesting to me for yours, but I think we've gone a little bit off the topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40358	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40359	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hrelja. We've cooperated well, I think we'll continue to cooperate. I don't think it was necessary to talk about the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute because the report shows that the Institute is functioning well, that it continued with that trend that started in 2011, which is rationalising the business of reducing costs. Looking at 2011 and 2015 and I think it continued, over a billion kuna less cost the Pension Insurance Office had when we talk about the cost of business and that's the trend that started in 2011 and continued in 2015. I think that there should be a commendation to all directors and those who have been in this period since 2015, so here and now there is a new director who I expect to continue with the same way of doing business, which is that the cost of the office is as little as possible, to make the institution turn to information technology as possible. What I am pleased to see continued through linking with other pension institutions in the region and in Europe, the Institute is waiting for more challenges, one of the challenges is this new law on the transfer of rights of our citizens who participate and work in EU institutions, which will be extremely demanding for both the Institute and the Staff but also financially. And what I'm also glad to see, despite all the intensities of the Institute of Art, the employment of people with disabilities has not been extinguished as was the idea and that it is not only attached to the institution. The Institute is doing well, and I think we'll all agree here and there are no facilities or anything we can add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40360	Thank you. Next replica representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40361	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Mrsic, you were talking about rights of defence, separation of pensions as well as members of the HVO you had to calm down and you didn't want to. I will say something about the separation of pensions being made for the re-attack of Croatian defenders and there is a wrong and incorrect application of material law and material law. The significant infringements of the procedural provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act were also present, a violation of the principle... the principles of the protection of bankruptcy rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was an attack that was unnecessary and a cost that didn't need either the pension system or you. On several occasions, we tried to establish a body of control and you were present when, as minister, you deceived Croatian defenders and you were not telling the truth. As for HVO, the backlogs amounted to 77 million kuna in 2007, for what? The interstate agreement signed clearly speaks about who has the right and to what extent the pensioner is entitled to the difference in pension in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which he would have received in Croatia, if he had been a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. The interstate agreement still needs to be revised, complete, so that there are no damages, to those who have not gained the right to retire. We believe you understand this problem, but why do you want such a way and such a relationship to the Croatian defenders, that's your business. I wouldn't want to get involved in this, we discussed it on boards many times, and we proved to you that you were wrong, this was returned to make the satisfaction of Croatian defenders first of all present in the whole space. We will continue to work to allow 10% reduction by the end of this year to Croatian defenders as the law requires, in some normal communication, in the normal sequence of agreements with the government as well as with the Ministry of Pensions as well as with the Croatian Defence Ministry. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40362	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40363	Thank you very much. Mr. Djakic, I expected you to pick up, I'd find it strange if you hadn't answered. I will just remind myself that when we talk about the separation of pensions, the Croatian Parliament set up a commission which, before the said separation of the defenders' pensions, analysed the separation process and found that no pension will be reduced in the process by any June. And that's how it was, so if you find any defenders who, after the separation, had a pension less and for one lip, show me. You know it didn't happen anywhere. You've used it clearly for your political purposes and I'm perfectly clear. But again, you've come out of your hands again one good argument, which is that the defenders have also worked and had a job internship and this law has shown you that most of them have an impressive job experience. Therefore, their defence pensions are just continuing on to that counseling internship. When we talk about the HVO itself, you haven't answered my questions very clearly. I expected you to answer, and that's how it's calculated to be 2000. You were saying yourself there and the discussion you said in the explanation that there would be 2,000 of those disabled, that now there were 6500 of them, that they were all wounded in the southern battlefield which we know they were not, that all these papers were signed by General Ljuba Cesic Rojsa and that they were not skilled in Croatia. Therefore, if we require our defenders to collect a ton of paper in order to obtain disability, then for this group of people with disabilities to whom we give money from our budget We didn't do the same thing, why they didn't practice in Croatia. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] That's all I asked. Nothing more. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40364	Thank you. Next replica representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40365	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, I agree with you that this report for 2015 cannot be changed but should be accepted, but that it is a basis for discussion of what with this system and how the government is considering further treatment of pensioners. And I agree with you that pensions cannot and should not be below 40% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, that this must be approaching 50% and over 50% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. And since GDP is growing, the deficit is falling and one-time pensions need to be brought closer to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. But I am particularly interested in why no one mentions more than 40,000 people, pensioners in the Republic of Croatia from agriculture whose pensions are 500, 600 kuna and which are forgotten by both this government and the former governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40366	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40367	Thank you very much. The peace offerings always reflect the internship. So, how much you worked and how much you paid. On the other hand, agricultural pensions and trade pensions are pensions where very little has been paid, so during work, which is why they are low that I don't say they should be so low. But I think since Croatia is going through recovery that the government would now have to and could count on pensions to increase linearly to everyone. So that pensions go beyond what's under the pension insurance law itself, according to that modified Swiss formula. And that's something I think this government should do primarily, not go with restrictive methods in terms of an extension of the age to retire, pensioning, so people going into early retirement. It took years, and we did it, that people who work 41 years and aren't 65 years old, say that, these people have done their working life normally and have the right to full retirement. That's not why we're penalizing them. Finally, these people have a well-deserved pension. But I wonder when, if the government continues this way and makes us retire at 67 years of age much earlier than it should be a question of how these people who should then retire to what pension and whether they will be able to work until 67 years. So clearly someone who works at the engine factory, who's a construction worker that can't retire at 67 because before that we have to have a safety workshop, a whole system that will allow them to work in other jobs and then deserve their pension. I'm afraid the government is under the great influence of the EU and that I hope they don't do that to Croatian citizens. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40368	Thank you. And another replica by Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40369	Thank you very much, dear representative Mrsic. So it is necessary to break one myth that I see often repeated, and this is that if GDP increases 2%, pension coordination will occur, i.e. that pensions will reportedly increase. Well, here, we already have that growth. However, we can see that pensions do not increase except perhaps a few kunas. So it is not possible to increase pensions so long as GDP growth is 2% higher than the interest Croatia is paying on the existing debt. So, as long as the interest on debt is higher than GDP growth, neither will wages nor pensions increase except in this symbolic amount that I have now cited. So, if Minister Maric is in debt by 3.3% and, in his time, Minister Linic was in debt by 5.5%, that means that Croatia should have a GDP growth of at least 5 and a half percent compared to three, three, and 7 and a half percent respectively, compared to 5 and a half Linic's so that there could be a more sensitive increase in pension. Such GDP growth as you know about Croatia is currently impossible. We have 8 billion kunas of debt only in health care during Minister Kujundzic's time. We have about 5 to 6 billion kunas in education for unpaid salaries to civil servants. We have a problem with Agrokora. We have a decline in industrial production of 2.6% in April, we have a slowdown in consumption. The entire budget is on very flimsy feet and needs to be made clear to the Croatian people and especially to pensioners that under such conditions there is no increase in pensions. Everything else is just lies, and as we know in the lie, short legs. However, they seem to be going on longer than we should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40370	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40371	Dear Representative Bunjac, perhaps we didn't get along well. So when I talked about the need to pay back those 10% pension increases, these are pensions according to special regulations, where because of the problem of paying off those pensions that normally lie on the burden of the Republic of Croatia's budget, we reduced by 10% and the law makes it very clear that those 10% should be returned at the time when GDP is greater than 2% and when the budget deficit is less than 3%. That time has come, the government is obviously making a mutation or hump, so since it is now in power I would be wondering what if there were some left option in power to make Mr. Djakic jump and yell that he would choose to return it, he'd probably be another tent in front of the Ministry of Defense, and now that he's in power of his government, now we'll sit down and we'll make a deal, so we'll see. The law is very clear, it should return those 10% that when the time was hard, when there was no money in the budget, we took and reduced to those 10%. On the other hand, when we talk about all pensions, I agree that GDP needs to have constant growth, that we need to be in a better situation, but we already need to prepare models to see how much that pension increase means. Because if pensions only grow by 1% that's 390 million kuna a year, if 2 712 counts if it's 5% or more, then the government should now think about how and how to increase pensions. Otherwise, let me remind you, Prime Minister Plenkovic has promised to grow 5% of pensions, so now we'll see, as far as I can see this year, not 5%, but much less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40372	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, MP Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40373	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support this report for 2015, in which the director himself has already provided all the complete data, which is what this report is about, how many users are in 2015. I can only say that in 2015 there continued a negative trend in the decline of the number of insurance companies, the growth of the number of pensioners. So, on 31 December 2015, a million and 228 thousand and 20 users and a million 413637 insurance companies were registered in the office. The ratio between the two groups was one as we heard 1 versus 1.15 and that is what is a negative trend, which absolutely everyone wants to change and which each government wants to establish a different proportion of employees to pensioners. Many times in the political events of retirement and layoffs that have been caused by new costs at powerful verdicts and which are also the burden of the Croatian state because of one's recklessness or political decision that goes to the detriment of the users or employees themselves who could still work. We also know how many generals President Mesic is retired given the moment with one pen move, declaring them rebels or conspirators. So how many police officers, how many Croatian soldiers, officers and officers are retired by the decision of the political majority at the given moment of change in power. All of this is on the burden of the Croatian state, but we can say that the average pension achieved by the Pension Insurance Institute, for December 2015 was reduced by tax and the cut was 2237 kuna and 89 June, and the share of that pension in the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia was 38.77%. The average pension without pension achieved under national social insurance contracts for December 2015 was 2481 kuna and 58 lipa or 42.99% of the average net salary. The average retirement pension for December 2015 was 24469 kuna and 6 June or 42.78% of the average net salary, and the average retirement pension without pension achieved under international social insurance contracts was 2800 kuna and 76 June or 48.52% of the average net salary. In 2015, pensions were adjusted by 0.3% other than pensions, i.e. parts of pensions achieved, laid down under specific regulations under favourable conditions. The share of pension expenditure in gross wages, gross domestic product in 2015 increased by 11.19% in 2014 to 11.57% In 2015, a total of 49,000 new pensioners were made. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute also implements the procedures for the exercise of the right to compensation for children in 2015. The supplement was used for children by an average of 188 thousand 236 users, which averaged 352 thousand 785 children who received extras for children. In addition to children, it averaged 374 thousand and 50, 374 kuna and 59 lipes and the user was one million and 588. On the financial operations from the institutions and all other segments which it is, it is all clearly explained for this year 2014 I can only say that although the gradual increase in the average age for going to an old and early passionate pension is due to the gradual increase in the average lifetime. In 2015, the multi-annual trend of increasing the average duration of pension use was continued, while the average use of the retirement pension was 20 years and 5 months, disability pensions 18 years and 8 months, and family pensions 17 years and 10 months. Here are the trends recorded through this report in 2014 and which speak clearly about what should be further done and planned and realized. Mr. Bunjac said that the system is badly damaged and basically indicators speak about the need for radical moves to withdraw in order to make as many employees as possible incomes in the Mirovinski Fund and pensions come out of it. Of course insurance is necessary and necessary if we see how many billions of kunas in HZMO, I think it's the largest company with the strongest revenues from the state budget and... the pay-outs. I think it is insufficient until this budget is filled with employees and as long as it is necessary to keep up with the state budget, I think that this goal is difficult to achieve, but we should all strive together and without it it will not be possible to function long and long-term. As for those matters concerning Croatian defenders and their pensions and retirements, they can clearly say that the harmonisation that needs to be and the law to be stopped is in force in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which should be made in the next period of time, a decision on the termination of the pension reduction law and the return of those 10% that have been used at the time of the crisis, although for the second time they have been used they have not contributed to any stabilisation or any improvement or reduction of critical moments. They were purely those used by individuals in view of defence pensions that are much larger than the average pensions of workers and employees. Trade unions have also affected many times to reduce pensions to help with the crisis, but the effects of the reduction are not visible or have done any good. We can remember... pensions that are also numerous and which, along with two witnesses, are regulated by those who have left the Republic of Croatia. It is about those who did not want to admit at the given moments of the Republic of Croatia and its legal system, or respect the Constitution, coat of arms and flag. They're in a later sequence... and they got pensions from the Republic of Croatia whether they worked or didn't, no, no, two witnesses were used to get their pension. When we discuss members of the HVO, the backlogs that have not been paid date back to 2007, an interstate contract was signed to compensate. On average, it is planned to be 2 thousand and some users, but there have been 6 thousand and something, and not all of them yet because many of them today have lawsuits sued by the Republic of Croatia. In order to prevent this, it is necessary to adhere to the revision of the interstate agreement, to include all those who have rights and cannot use them. And especially in the past government, it happened that the Ministry of Defence did not want to issue certificates for those they have on record, and that is clear today, it is evidenceable, it can be verified that by political intent those members who were killed in the southern battlefield were unable to obtain certificates to exercise their rights, but by suing the administrative courts through the Croatian state institutions had to receive certificates and administrative courts or lawsuits that had exercised their rights. I'll say it's 2007. Seventy-seven million kunas back in 2008. 71 million kuna, 2009 18 million kuna, 2010. 4.5 million kuna and 2011. 1.6 million kuna. This is about paying off part of the back-up on an interstate contract that hasn't been paid. And that's what actually violated the system for which the lawsuits were dropped, and now that there was no decision on this law, there would certainly be lawsuits. The Constitutional Court said that this is both the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia must consider how 10% of defenders must return what they have at a time of crisis reduced. When we talk about the segments in this report, we must clearly say that in 2014 there were some of the shortcomings that were in the work, 2015 the revision found certain possible irregularities which were not significantly assessed as sad or procedural, but there were these things that were not good. What I still want to highlight through this report and remember is that certain categories of defenders, not all of them, have experienced pension separation, separation of pensions that were purely political decisions and no effects have been made. We actually heard today that it is commendable that one of the largest part of Croatian defenders was employed and that is a fact that is undeniable. We have today a record from which we can see exactly how many of those young men were when they were 18 years old who did not have a job as members of the Croatian Army and the Croatian police. It's clear that most of it worked like it did today, out of 501 thousands and six of them in the defense register, we grew to 503 thousands and something. Today there are 480,000 defenders alive, of whom 360,000 are working today. He's working today. 26 thousand are those who are questionable and who do not work and who cannot find their jobs. So I think the separation of pensions was one whim that actually reduced thousands of those who filed complaints and lawsuits because the exercise of their rights was no longer the same, it was reduced and in their actions they were already in the courts by returning a united pension solution. They're still satisfied and don't happen to them, somewhere they lacked a retirement internship, somewhere... Because of that non-payment that the HV or the Ministry of Defence did not pay for the pension internship for the members, you wanted to do what would be fatal for most of the users of these pensions and it had to be prevented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was visible that we intervened on several occasions, there are records on the Veterans Committee when they really see what the commission said and they said that you deceived the Croatian public, that you deceived Croatian defenders, and that is evident and we cannot escape from it. And today we can say this or that, but here's what wasn't necessary. Those 70,000 solutions that you had to print and send for them postage and all those employees who worked on them as a separation didn't sting at what you reduced their income pension from the aspect of whether the job, whether the value points, whether... An act and a place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There have been escapades. I in HVIDRA have thousands of solutions in which you can clearly see what was before and what is now. You can deceive the public further as you did before the truth always comes out. I can say that this report for 2015 is as standard as the rest, nothing positive can be read out of it except those negative trends which are the sequence of events and employee reductions in the face of the reduction in the user's pensions. I thank you for your attention, and I hope that in the replicas we will clarify some more concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40374	Yes, thank you, you have two replicas. The first replica is representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40375	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Djakic, it is difficult for me to say in these three minutes everything you have said as they say an alternative fact or alternative truth. So 10% reduction in special pensions, the most defensive is 480 million kuna per year, which has greatly helped the budget that needs to be allocated 17 billion from the budget to pay off pensions. On the other hand, the debt to the HVO is the 2007 debt. Well, it's not like she was the government of the SDP all those years, so your government didn't pay for it either because there was just no money and there wasn't any. So there's now about 190 million kuna in debt. Let's just wonder why it's long and it's come into existence. Because retrograde rights have been recognised, which is also somewhat symptomatic that the rights have been recognised not from the moment of the solution but from the moment of the application. The 190 million government could not pay off, and even now Plenkovic's government because Minister Maric made it very clear, we do not have any money for it. And it will be interesting to see in the future how these funds will be found in the budget to be paid. As for the separation of pensions itself, you do not say exactly, so no defence pension has been reduced either by lip or by what has been shown, it has proved that the budget commitments for the payment of defence pensions are 1.2 billion less than they were before. We used to think we needed about 6.7 billion from the budget for defense pensions. So defense pensions aren't covered by budgets. But they are covered by contributions because 1.2 billion is a contribution, so they have had a job job and that part must come from contributions. And that's a fact, so if you'd left it behind, it'd be easier for you now. .../Friend Mrssic, time./... And when new pensions come to you now, people who are working now, you'll have separate pensions, so I'm curious what you're going to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40376	My men, for being naughty this afternoon. Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40377	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you see, you're talking about 480 million kuna savings. From the budget of the Republic of Croatia, 600 million kuna is allocated to all civil society associations. If it had been halved, this shouldn't have happened. Here's the fact we're going to look at. Let's go see how much... Retirement paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the budget leaks everywhere are clear to me and you, that political decisions have been patched up where it could have been but defenders because the unions wanted it to be. The first time she... And with you, too, they have appealed, that they have too much; they should be reduced; they do not deserve it, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those were clear messages. You've got them on the portals, you've got them in the press. As for the separation of pensions, nothing special is, the same political attack on defenders for who knows which times. I've said it many times, I'd like to end this story, put it in a single law, put it as constitutional and forget it, and leave these people alone. I worked 15 years before the war, and I mean, absolutely, but that's why I have to be now, and, uh, I earned this in the INA, and this is what I'm at war. Well, I'm interested in what I have together and what I can do to get into the bank and get a loan so that I can do something to each other, so that every defense attorney can. And you've disrupted it, you've created one chaos and one dissatisfaction with the defense attorney. But not only in that segment of separation, it was the final act. You had escapades along with ministers who cared for defenders just like that. So all this time following the situation has always happened why an attack on defenders just because of political connotations? I don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40378	Thank you. Representative Silvano Hrelja, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40379	Comrade Djakic, you, through your debate and through your replicas, confirm my opinion that defence pensions should have been in the Ministry of Defense. If the systems weren't supposed to interfere, and if they had clean bills then, to be clean stories, this is for this, this is for something else and a proportional part, the war has its pension and a proportionate part of the work, it has its pension, it's fair play. But it got mixed up, so we got what we got. I just want to, that is, the truth for the sake of the fact that in 2009 reduced the defenders 10%, they were introduced a special contribution to the health insurance of 3%, paid for one month, the second month Darko Milinovic made his decision, not to be taken by the defenders, so that within a year it would be legal in the Health Insurance Act. Citizens over 5080 or 40 kuna are paying neatly to this day, defenders have never paid. That's why I'm saying I draw the difference. Mr. Mrsic, when he took down 10% of the defenders, took down those above 5,000 kuna. The first tax reform of those with the highest pensions is almost all 10% back, those with the lower ones a little less. Therefore, take care when you speak and assure the Government, which should be returned, whether it is for this period since 2012 or for the period since 2009, please, just that please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40380	Thank you. Do you have a reply to the replica? I can't believe it, but that's right. [[Intruder: No.]] Okay. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40381	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for being so friendly. I didn't mean, I meant after Silvano talks in an individual debate, but here, to cut the time, but what to say. Yeah, once in ten percent, that's when I reluctantly accepted it, and I'm in my phonogram of statements and standing. But if we were to defend Croatia, we were willing to give our lives, then we thought that the crisis that we all started to be able to do together, and so we made decisions on the bodies of our associations that were unanimous after a long-term debate to help the Republic of Croatia again. But we saw that it didn't help. Not even during the Jadranka Kosor, not now during your time, but not once have the effects been obtained and the defenders have been penalized. So no effect has occurred on the budget, either improvement or growth in GDP or growth in industrial production, by taking the defenders. I wonder where your money is distributed? What's the matter with them? Where did they go? I ask myself many times, and believe me, in this debate on the return 10% gave back in 2009 or this new one, but not only that, there were still measures that totaled more than 30% of the pension of Croatian defenders throughout that period. They are sometimes needed in the given segments only to account for political connotations, for nothing else. I believe that by the end of the year we will have 10% on the account of Croatian defenders no matter what their name is, in 2009 or under Miranda's law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40382	Thank you very much. I thought that you would end up today in the news "Djakic would be speechless" but you did give up the opportunity. Representative Gordan Maras is not in the hall, losing his right to debate, and the final debate today, Silvano Hrelja, individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40383	Dear Madam Vice President, I wish you a great deal of success since you have recently been appointed director. This, however, is in my fourteenth annual internship here in the Croatian Parliament for the first time that in one report, a report was prepared by one director, defended by the other director or executive of the office, Mr. Bulaja, by Mr. Srecko Vukovic, and defended by the third director in the Croatian Parliament. But you know what "every miracle in its time", so that doesn't mean that the second time will be better, but it would be good for me to argue for a year, let's say we're discussing for 2016, not 2015. What about the report itself? The report is traditionally correct, technically comprehensive, what I see, who wants to read data, such as with understanding, can read a lot of it and can draw conclusions about the functioning of the system, about trends in the pension insurance system. So what's characteristic of 2015 is that the Institute had this quite awake year because Mrsic was quite like this, a creative and unsettled minister and he was constantly pressing on the head of the office with all new and new projects, it wasn't mentioned here that it was even in the preparation of the project or, it was based on projects for family pensions, that that year was paid and Christmas Eve before the election, you can say that it was pre-election or not, but the fact that 180 million were paid to pensioners from what was left in the retirement fund and it was first paid Christmas in a way that those who had 500 kunas from Croatia, and 1000 euros from Germany did not get the biggest Christmas certificate. Why? Because in 2015, the Pension Insurance Institute exchanged not only those who died but also the levels of pensions. This was possible because we entered the EU, but it was also necessary to establish certain contacts with foreign insurance companies, to compile all our and their data on our citizens living in Croatia, and to receive except our pensions and pensions from abroad. So this isn't the story of the Bureau is the least simple story. This is a public institution with very complex, complicated tasks that are not regulated by one law. Here is the game of the mass of laws and the mass of interstate social agreements on social security. The work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is also very complex and requires great expertise. You know, I'm sorry to hear that even though the principal will always say less, with fewer people we've done a bigger job. I'm asking you if it's always okay to do a quality job for less pay and less people. It would be much more correct to say for the same costs with a smaller number of people, with a little extra pay, we did the same job. I wonder if the policy of savings with smaller salaries and fewer people has brought out the staff from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, because there are a lot of great lawyers there who want to offer a variety of private corporations a job because they know their jobs and it's hard to make up for them. And I'm saying that because here in this report, in this brief report, you have data in the field. Turns out my field service in Pula is one of the worse ones, but that's not why it would look like statistics. But it should be said that in 2014, there was a fire in the Pula area service, that they moved to other areas for half a year. And the fire is because we don't have in many areas of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute a fire report, and it works with papers, it's easy to fire materials, we don't invest enough in the safety of these premises and the working conditions of employees. So there's no exception. Not all of the former government and our coalition government have given much to make employees work better, so in 2015 it was relatively little. Unfortunately, in this field service, it happened that a year later, two top lawyers were killed in a car accident one night, and it was an irreparable loss for such a field service. I have to justify that, because these indicators would be much stricter on the number of undetermined items in a particular field service. So we need to take great care of that and more. I think that too few in 2015 and all the following years, and also in the past few good years, too little is invested in the Information System of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. I'm not saying that about the level of communication with citizens and potential users. I'm talking about technologies that need to be inside so that they can change and resist systems with foreign information and that there can be a multi-stakeholder system in order to achieve a variety of calculations especially if we have a plan and we will eventually come up with it as a Croatian society to determine other ways of family pensions, to pave some additions in the fight against poverty with the level of pension income, but also with property and other benefits, because it is very important that this system must be extremely qualityd and extremely fair. We can talk about poverty levels and it can be partially solved through the pension system. So, but there is only technical support for the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute was once an alpha and omega for the creation of pension insurance policies. But it's just that. The higher the share of the grant of pensions from the budget, the autonomy of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute fell, which is not exactly the most just solution. This happens in neighbouring Italy, but they still have tripartite management of their Pension Insurance Office. And it counts exactly what kind of pension the state is obliged to pay for. It's also about, it's not a simple relationship between current work and past work. So of course we can say that there are few workers who have relatively low wages and therefore come relatively little money for the pensioners. But these, therefore, when the current pensioners were workers, and those pensioners who were no longer among us had 85% of the average salary would be their pension and more with many benefits then worked 5 to 6 workers on one pensioner. At that time in this society, at these premises, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute built homes of health, hospitals, resorts, loaned companies money. So there's no way I can experience what's being paid out of the budget as the cost of the state. I treat it like a debt to the generations that are all that we have today. This is about the relationship between generations and it can't be seen as simple mathematics. In that part of course, I would like the experts, all those who have long been in the office to always say that they are used and that the truth about the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is still little heard from not only the position when you hear in the news ah that is the cost for the state I don't know 17, 18 or more billions. Yeah, but you need to see how it was, how it all came about, and what trends it was. Of course Mrsic also said that in this context, that we owe to generations that used to work, that the system was financially sustainable, and not in the context, while he was the minister, as it were, I think that the current ministers are about to be set up, because it is something that is due to the former generations. In this context, I want a new director and HZMO even better working conditions and good work in any case this report deserves not to be personally but to be supported by everyone here, because it's essentially good quality and it paints a real picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40384	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. You have two replicas, the first representative is Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40385	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelj, you were telling the truth about HZMO, this report survived three directors, one wrote it and the other directed it to the government, and the third defended it. So, all of this shows you that HZMO, an institution that has its solid foundations and that it should continue to do so, regardless of what policy, that directors are changing, but people are staying and that it should continue with this process and I am glad that the current director obviously shares that vision that the office must be operational, that it must have small costs and that it must be at the service of the citizens, rather than that of the citizens, we remember those great lines in the Company etc. It's a little bit disappearing now, and I hope it continues that way, but I'd like to look back at one more thing that's extremely important, not directly HZMO, but it concerns all those who are going to retire from the first and second pension pillar, who haven't been in a relatively long retirement column or who haven't been singled out enough in the second pension column, and on the other hand I know that you're one of the... in those who are responsible for that famous supplement between 3 and 27% being included in the pension, in the first pension pillar, which is likely to create imbalances in pensions of those who retire from the first and second pension pillars and obviously that is something that we need together and the position and opposition agree together that those people who receive pensions from the first and second pillars deserve to have a pension allowance from the first pillar, in order to make those pensions equal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will be a cost for the institution and for the state, but it will allow all in Croatia to have equal treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40386	A crazy moment of indifference and they're gone. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40387	Dear fellow Mrsic, I was the chairman of the board, you minister, we didn't agree on everything but in the face of thinking I think that we have come to quality solutions and I absolutely agree that we should watch HZMO, not only someone who serves only the first pillar, but you will need pension insurance, but also later when we see the results of savings and how much we will have to help these people who are going to use two-stage pensions and ultimately, this whole logistics that has HZMO, in this example you mentioned that those beneficiaries of two-stage pensions, for the sake of fairness in the pension insurance system, should receive 27% of the year of payment of contributions only in the first pension column, which is, rightly, justly so, the principle of equality in the pension system, that these operations will require HZMO because they have the right wealth of all possible data. They just have to take care of these data, see, carefully keep them, because these are data stored, 50, 60, 70 years because you have extended family pension payments. Whether they're going to do it through microfilming, how they're going to do it, they still have to call it off and that the faster they can pull out of the archives into surgery. For them there are many, times that are also very challenging for them, it may all work together with a thousand and a half people, with even fewer people, but it will have to increase this other support, but of course about what you said, about this supplement, it must primarily decide politics and I wish for one thematic debate in this Croatian Assembly, not only when we talk about one single law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40388	We have another replica. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40389	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague, you have well established that the huge revenue of the HZMO budget is 38 billion 687 million kuna. The expenditures are 38 billion 683 million kuna. So the revenues from the state budget that make up the difference between incomes that come and employees is 17 billion and 703 million kuna. It's such a huge amount that we need in the future to find ways to hire as many people as possible to fill the pension fund, to get to what you said, one to five, that would be ideal, then we could really secure beautiful pensions for our pensioners, for those who are creating and country, who have earned and who should have certainly... We are all here to work on that part of how to create a condition for as many employees as possible with better salaries, so we don't go out and then to fill this system that's hollowed out for me because these 17,703 billion kunas are huge funds, and the total amount of 1/3 of the state budget per year, and it's actually the largest company in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40390	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40391	Yeah, I can agree with you, although it's going to be on one of the five workers' pensioners again only when I don't know what immigration policies might have happened. But as far as we're concerned, we've proven our laziness in demographic politics and our generations who come after us aren't too fast to be able to significantly improve demographic policy so I don't expect for my life such renumbers. I'd love to, but it's not gonna happen. What should be said in your replica, it should be said that HZMO definitely with the collection of pension contributions and with the payment there is nothing. He is a public institution that is all about pensions, does not issue solutions, goes to court, is tried, justice is done with citizens, but doesn't collect money and doesn't pay money since 2000. That's what the Ministry of Finance does for HZMO. So we are to them today and that we will not object to anything if they are not selected contributions. If someone forgave someone for their contributions, then it's the minister of finance or government or politics. They're not to blame, and we here have to publicize them if someone wants to sew it up. I hope that's not the way it's gonna be, but unfortunately, that's the truth. I mentioned to the Republic of Italy, they're still holding on, they've had a relationship between workers and pensioners at 1:1,8, but they're still counting on how many state institutions are in their pension system, so they have their autonomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40392	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. We're done with the replicas. And the final word would give Mr. Josip Aladrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40393	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. So, we have witnessed an interesting debate on the pension system and the current issues of the pension system. I must admit that certain discussions have pleasantly surprised me about the very knowledge of the pension system and actually more ways HZMO works. As this report is for 2015, we may have exceeded a term in which it would be current enough, but I hope that the 2016 report will also be on the agenda of the Parliament's session as soon as possible. So, I thank everyone for the constructive debate and more or less that's about the 2015 report and I hope that I will be the director you will see in this report all the time in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40394	Yes, here you will be enrolled as one of the few directors who only on two grateful sentences received a replica. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40395	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Director. I'm curious about one more thing, namely in this report we have the ratio of statistics to the ratio of employees and pensioners at 1.15:1, I wonder if there is such statistics in the county? Namely, some estimates suggest that in Slavonian counties, the number of persons employed is lower than the number of pensioners and that they are a specific amount of 0.96% of persons employed according to 1 pensioner, so I wonder if such data exists and if there is any way to see them or where they are publicly published. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40396	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40397	I appreciate the question. So you can see this on HZMO's website and with that I have to note that at this point this ratio of 1:1,15 is 1:1,23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40398	Thank you. I'm closing today's debate. Tomorrow we start at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal of the Law on concessions, second reading. Thank you. Session adjourned at 17.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-13-0.u40399	The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2015 is submitted by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2015 is accepted." I find that with 113 votes for, 4 votes abstentions, it was concluded that it was proposed by the National Assembly Committee.
